
        Account of Madeira
        The five days which we remained upon the Island were spent so exactly in the same manner, that it is by no means nescessary to divide them,  I shall therefore only say, that in general we got up in the Morn, went out on our researches, retur[n]d to dine, and went out again in the Evening; one day however we had a visit from the Governor, of which we had notice before and were obligd to stay at home, so that unsought honour lost us very near the whole
            
      

        
        day, a very material part of the short time we were allowd to stay upon the Island: we however contrivd to revenge ourselves upon his excellency, by an Electrical machine which we had on board; upon his expressing a desire to see it we sent for it ashore, and shockd him full as much as he chose.
        While at this place we were much indebted to Dr Heberden, the cheif Physitian of the Island, and brother to the Physitian of that name at London; he had for many years been an inhabitant of the Canaries and this Island, and had made several observations cheifly philosophical, some however were Botanical, describing the trees of the Island: of these he immediately gave us a copy, together with such specimens as he had in his possession, and indeed spard no pains to get for us such living
            
      

        
        specimens of such as could be procurd in flower.
        We tryed here to learn what Species of wood it is which has been imported into England, and is now known to Cabinet makers by the name of Madeira mahogeny, but without much success, as we could not learn that any wood had been exported out of the Island by that name; the wood however of the tree calld here Vigniatico, Laurus indicus Linn. bidds fair to be the thing, it being of a fine grain and brown like mahogeny, from which it is dificult to distinguish it, which is well shewn at Dr Heberdens house where in a bookcase vigniatico and mahogeny were placd close by each other, and were only to be known asunder by the first being not quite so dark colourd as the other.
            
      

        
        As much of the Island as we saw shewd evidently the signs of a volcano having some time or other possibly produced the whole; as we saw no one peice of stone which did not evidently shew signs of having been burnt, some very much, especialy the sand which was absolutely cinders.  Indeed we did not see much of the countrey, but we were told that the whole was like the specimen we saw of it.
        When you first aproach it from seaward it has a very beautifull appearance, the sides of the hills being intirely coverd with vineyards almost as high as the eye can distinguish, which make a constant appearance of verdure tho at this time nothing but the vines remaind green, the grass and herbs being intirely burnt up except near the
            
      

        
        some other opportunity offers of visiting it again, for the climate is so fine that any man might wish it was in his power to live here under the benefits of English laws and liberty.
        The hills here are very high, much higher than any one would imagine, Pico Ruevo the highest is 5068 ft which is much higher than any land that has been measured in Great Britain; indeed as I hinted before the whole Island has probably been the production of a Volcano, notwishstanding which its fertility is amazing, all the sides of the hills are coverd with vines to a certain hight, above which are woods of chestnut and pine of immense extent; and above them forests of wild timber of kinds not known in Europe, which amply supply the inhabitants with whatever they may want.  Among these some there were whose flowers we
            
      

        
        were not able to procure and consequently could not settle their Genera, particularly those calld by the Portugese Mirmulano  and Pao branco, both which, and especialy the first, from the Beauty of their leaves promise to be a great ornament to our European gardens.
        The inhabitants here are supposd to be about 80,000; and from the town of Fonchiale (its custom house I mean) the King of Portugal receives 20000 pounds a year, after having paid the Governor and all expences of every kind, which may serve to shew in some degree the consequence which this little Island is of to the crown of Portugal; was it in the hands of any other people in the world its value might easily be doubled, from the excellence of its climate capable of bearing any kind of crop, a circumstance
            
      

        
        which the Portugese do not make the least advantage of.
        The Coin current here is intirely Spanish, for the Balance of trade with Lisbon being in disfavour of this Island all the Portugese money naturaly goes there, to prevent which Spanish money is allowd to pass: it is of three denominations, Pistereens, Bitts, and _ bitts; the first worth about 1 shilling, the 2nd 6 pence, the third 3 pence; they have also Portugese money of Copper, but so scarce that I did not in my stay there see a single peice.
            
      
  Fish 
      of Madeira
        Muraena guttata Mss Merca Lus.
        - - - - - Anguilla Linn.
        Trachinus Draco Linn. Aranha Lus.
        Coryphaena Novacula Linn. Papagaya Lus.
        Scorpaena Patriarcha Mscr.
        - - - - - - Chorrista Mscr Memino do coro Lus.
        Pleuronectes Rhomboides Mscr Solha Lus.
        Chaetodon luridus Mss. Castanpeta Lus.
        Sparus sarghus Linn. Sargho.
        - - - - griseus Mss.
        - - - - mundus Mss.
        Callyodon rubiginosus Mss Budiam Lus.
        Labrus lunaris Linn. Peixe verde Lus.
        Sciena angustata Mss. Bocavoens Lus.
        Perca decorata Mss.
        - - - Imperator Mss Emperador Lus.
        Scomber scombrus Linn.
        - - - - - Trachurus Linn.
            
          
        page (vol.1) n.p., February 2004
      
 Plants of Madeira

       N.B. the mark of a star * in the margin signifies 
      that the plant so 
      
        markd is not wild but cultivated a cross + that for want of fructification
        the plant could not certainly be determi[n]d.
        Monandria
        Canna indica Linn. Bananeira brava. Conteira preta
        * Amomum Zingiber Linn.
        Callitriche verna Linn.
        Diandria
        * Nyctanthes sambac Linn. flore pleno
        * Jasminum officinale Linn.
        *  grandiflorum Linn.
        + Olea europaea Linn.
        Veronica anagallis Linn.
        Verbena officinalis Linn.
        * Rosmarinus officinalis Linn.
        * Salvia officinalis Linn.
        Triandria
        Gladiolus communis Linn. Alho brabo
        Iris
        Cyperus rotundus Linn.
        - - - - - flavescens Linn.
        Scirpus setaceus Linn.
        * Saccharum officinarum Linn.
        Phalaris canariensis Linn.
        - - - - - oblongata Mss.
        Panicum Junceum. Mscr. Grama
            
      

        Plants of 
        Panicum glaucum Linn.
        - - - - - sanguinale Linn.
        - - - - - Crus Corvi Linn. Milhaa Lus.
        Milium paradoxum Linn.
        Agrostis linearis Mscr.
        - - - - - bromoides Linn.
        - - - - - sanguinalis Mscr.
        - - - - - pallida Mscr.
        - - - - - sylvatica Linn.
        Poa annua Linn.
        Briza minor Linn.
        - - - maxima Linn. Xucalheira Lus.
        Cynosurus indicus Linn.
        - - - - - - - echinatus Linn.
        Festuca sylvatica Mscr. Bromus pinnatus Linn.
        Bromus geniculatus Linn.
        Avena fatua Linn. Balanco Lus.
        - - - - elatior Linn.
        - - - - nodosa Linn.
        Arundo donax Linn. Canavieira Lus.
        Aristida Adscentionis Linn.
        Lolium perenne Linn.
        - - - - temulentum Linn.
        Hordeum murinum Linn.
        Triticum repens Linn. Forscapa Lus.
        Polycarpon tetraphyllum Linn. Saboira Lus.
            
      

        Plants of 
        Tetrandria
        Alyssum angustifolium Fig. pict. Mscr. Malforada Lus.
        Sherardia arvensis Linn.
        Galium mollugo Linn. Var. angustifolia
        - - - - vesiculosum Mscr.
        Plantago lanceolata Linn.
        - - - - - media Linn. Tanxage Lus.
        - - - - - albicans Linn.
        Eleagnus angustifolia Linn. Oleveira Lus.
        Ilex Perado Mss.Perado Lus. fig. pict.
        + - - Azevinho Mss. Azevinho Lus. fig. pict.
        Sagina procumbens Linn.
        Pentandria
        Heliotropium europaeum Linn.
        Myosotis scorpoides palustris Linn.
        - - - - - - arvensis Linn.
        Cynoglossum cheirifolium Linn. Masarogueira Lus.
        - - - - - - - - - officinale Linn.
        Echium vulgare Linn.
        Anagallis arvensis Linn.
        Convolvulus flexuosus Mss.
        * - - - - - - - - Batatas Linn. Batata Lus.
        - - - - - - - - arvensis Linn. corriola Lus.
        - - - - - - - - altheoides Linn.
        Campanula erinus Linn.
        Lonicera caprifolium Linn.
        Mirabilis Jalapa Linn. Boninas Lus.
        Datura Stramonium Linn. Bufarcira Lus.
            
      

        Plants of 
        Viola odorata Linn. Viola Lus.
        * Impatiens balsamina Linn.
        * Gynandria
        Passiflora quadrangularis Linn.
        * Arum colocasia Linn. Inhame Lus.
        - - - - sagittifolium Linn.
        - - - - pictum Mss. Inhame de Bresil Lus. fig. pict.
        Monoecia
        Lemna minor Linn.
        Zea Mays Linn.
        Coix Lacryma Jobi Linn. Conteiras brancas Lus.
        Carex muricata Linn.
        * Buxus sempervirens Linn.
        Urtica urens Linn.
        * Morus nigra Linn.
        Amaranthus hybridus Linn.
        - - - - - - - blitum Linn. Bredos Lus.
        Poterium sanguisorba Linn.
        Juglans regia Linn.
        Fagus castanea Linn.
        Pinus pinea Linn. Pinheira
        * Cupressus sempervirens Linn.
        * Cucurbita lagenaria Linn.
        * Cucurbita pepo Linn.
        * - - - - - - citrullus Linn.
        * Cucumis Melo Linn.
        * - - - - - Sativus Linn.
            
      

        Plants of 
        Dioecia
        Salix purpurea Linn. Veme Lus.
        - - - Helix Linn. Seiseiro Lus.
        Smilax latifolia Mss. Alegecadela Lus. fig. pict.
        Populus alba Linn. Alimo Lus.
        Mercurialis ambigua Linn.
        * Carica Papya Linn.
        Juniperus oxycedrus Linn.
        Taxus baccata Linn.
        * Ruscus androgynus Linn. Alegacam Lus.
        Polygamia
        Musa sapientum Linn.
        Andropogon hirtum Linn.
        Holcus halepensis Linn. Scabracha Lus.
        - - - - mollis Linn.
        Cenchrus setosus Mscr.
        Parietaria officinalis Linn. Alfavaca Lus.
        * Mimosa Farnesiana Linn.
        * Diospyrus Lotus Linn. fig. pict.
        * Ficus carica Linn.
        Cryptogamia
        Equisetum arvense Linn.
        + Osmunda Maderensis Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - spicant Linn.
        Pteris aquilina Linn. Feiteira Lus.
        Asplenium adiantum nigrum Linn.
        - - - - - - - marinum Linn.
        - - - - - - - monanthes Linn. fig. pict.
            
      

        Plants of 
        Polypodium Thelypteris Mscr. Acrosticum Th. Linn. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - lineatum Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - fragile Linn.
        Adiantum trapeziforme Linn. Cabreira Lus.
        Trichomanes canariense Linn.
        Mnium politrichoides Linn.
        Hypnum rugosum Mscr.
        Jungermannia tamariscifolia Linn.
        Lichen articulatus Linn. Barba Lus.
        - - - - calicaris Linn.
        - - - - digitatus Linn.
        Marchantia polymorpha Linn. Patinha Lus.
        Lichen geographicus Linn.
        Lichen calicaris Linn.
        Byssus aurea Linn.
        Phoenix dactyfera Linn.
        Appendix
        Faya Lus.
        Pao branco Lus.
        Salvia major folio glauco serrato
            Sloane Hist. Jam. p.17 T.3.fig.3
            
      

        Account of Rio de Janeiro
        The town of Rio de Janiero the capital of the Portugese dominions in America situate on the banks of the River of that name, both are call'd I apprehend from the Roman saint Januarius accord[in]g to the Spanish and Portugese custom of naming their discoveries from the Saint on whose feast they are made.
        It is regular and well built after the fashion of Portugal, every house having before its windows a Lattice of wood behind which is a little balcony.  For size it is much larger and I could have thought, probably little inferior to any of our Countrey towns in England Bristol or Liverpool not excepted; the streets are all straight intersecting each other at Right angles and have this peculiar Convenience, that much the greater number
            
      

        
        lay in one direction and are commanded by the Gunns of their citadel calld St Sebastian which is situate on the top of a hill over looking the town.
        It is supplyd with water by an aqueduct which brings it from the neighbouring hills upon two stories of arches, said in some places to be very high; the water that this brings is conveyd into a fountain in the great square immediately opposite the Governors palace, which is guarded by a sentry who has sufficient work to keep regularity and order among so many as are always in waiting at this place; there is also water laid into some other part of the town but how it is brought there I could not hear, only that it was better than the fountain which is exceedingly indifferent, so much so as not to be likd
            
      

        
        by us tho we had been two months at sea in which time our water was almost continualy bad.
        The Churches here are very fine dressd out with more ornaments even than those in Europe, and all parts of their religion is carried on with more shew; their processions in particular are very extrordinary, every day one or other of the parishes go in solemn order with all the insignia of their church, altar, host &c through their parish, begging for what they can get and praying in all form at every Corner of a street.
        While we were there one of the largest churches in the town was rebuilding and for that reason the parish belonging to it had leave to walk through the whole City, which they did once a week and collected much money for the carrying on of their
            
      

        
        Edifice: at this ceremony all boys under a certain age were obligd to attend nor were the gentlemens sons ever excusd.  Each of these were dressd in a Black cassock with a short red Cloak reaching half way down their shoulders,  and carried in his hand a Lanthorn hung on the End of a pole about 6 or 7 feet long, the light caused by this (for there were always at least 200 Lights) is greater than can be imagind; I myself who saw it out of the cabbin windows call[d] together my mess mates and shewd it to them imagining that the town was on fire.
        Besides this traveling religion a man who walks the streets has opportunity enough to shew his attachment to any saint in the Calendar, for every corner and almost every house has before it a little cupboard in which some Saint or other keeps his Residence, and least he should not see
            
      

        
        hours march to the town, which you aproach on the Back part where it is as defenceless as the Landing place; but this seems incredible yet I am inclind to beleive it of these people whose cheif policy consists in hindering people from looking about them as much as possible.  It may therefore be as my informer said that the existence of such a bay is but lately found out, indeed was it not for that policy I could beleive any thing of their stupidity and ignorance, when the Governor of the town Brigadier General Don Pedro de Mendoza y Furtado ask'd the Captain of our ship whether the transit of Venus which we were going to observe was not the passing of the North star to the South pole, which he said he always understood it to be.
        The river and indeed the whole coast abounds with greater variety of Fish than I have ever seen; seldom a day passd
            
      

        
        which we had not one or more new species brought to us, indeed the bay is the most convenient place for fishing I have ever seen for it abounds with Islands between which there is shallow water and proper beaches for drawing the Seine.  The sea also without the bay is full of Dolphins and large mackrell of several sorts who very readily bite at hooks which the inhabitants tow after their boats for that purpose, in short the Countrey is Capable with a very little industry of producing infinite plenty both of nesscessaries and luxuries:  was it in the hands of Englishmen we should soon see its consequence, as things are tolerably plentifull even under the direction of the Portugese, who I take to be without exception the laziest as well as the most ignorant race in the whole world.
        The Climate here is I fancy very good, the Countrey certainly is very wholesom
            
      

        
        during our whole stay the Thermometer was never above 83.  We had however a good deal of Rain and once it blew very hard.  I am rather inclind to think that this countrey has rather more rain than those in the same northern Latitude are observd to have, not only from what happend during our short stay but from Marcgrave who gives us metereological observations on this Climate for 3 years: you may observe that it raind here in those years almost every other Day throughout the year, but more especialy in May and June in which months it raind along without Ceasing.
            
      

        Plantae BrasiliensesMonandria
        Canna Indica Sp. pl. I.I
        - - - - - laevicapsularis Mscr.
        Thalia geniculata 3.1
        Boerhavia scandens 4.3
        Salicornia procumbens Mscr.
        Diandria
        Nyctanthes Sambac 8.2.fl.pl.
        Jasminum officinale 9.1
        Verbena Jamaicencis 27.3
        - - - - - varietas glabra
        - - - - - - - - - - hirsuta
        Rosmarinus officinalis 33.1
        Piper Amalago 41.6
        - - - - - hispidum Mscr.
        - - - - - laevigatum Mscr.
        Triandria
        Iris Ensata Mscr.
        Commelina communis 60.1
        - - - - - Zannonia 61.7
        Schoenus glomeratus 65.11
        - - - - - squarrosus Mscr.
        Cyperus minimus 66.2. Mscr.
        - - - - - sessilis Mscr.
        - - - - - strigosus 69.18. Mscr.
        - - - - - compressus 68.14. Mscr.
        - - - - - elegans 68.11. Mscr.
        - - - - - rotundus 67.6. Mscr.
        - - - - - ligularis 69.19. Mscr.
        - - - - - Comosus Mscr.
        - - - - - exaltatus Mscr.
            
      

        
        Scirpus spadiceus 74.20. Mscr.
        Paspalum virgatum 81.2
        Panicum glaucum 83.4. Mscr.
        - - - - - setosum Mscr.
        - - - - - Italicum 83.6. Mscr.
        - - - - - pallidum Mscr.
        - - - - - sanguinale 84.73. Mscr.
        Milium villosum Mscr.
        - - - - - punctatum 91.5
        Agrostis indica 94.13
        - - - - - cruciata 94.15
        - - - - - linearis 85.16. Mscr.
        Aira cappillaris Mscr.
        Poa ciliaris 102.20
        Briza eragrostis 103.5. Mscr.
        Cynosurus virgatus 106.6
        - - - - - indicus 106.8. Mscr.
        Mollugo verticilata 131.5
        Tetrandria
        Spermacoce tenuior 147.1
        - - - - - - - - hirta 148.3
        - - - - - - - - Capitata Mscr. fig. Pict.
        Plantago major 163.1
        Scoparia dulcis 168.1
        Cissus Sycioides 170.3
        - - - - - quinquefolia Mscr.
        Ludwigia hirta Mscr.
        Rivina humilis 177.1
        Lygistum capitatum Mscr.
        - - - - - - - pentandrum Mscr.
        Pentandria
        Heliotropium peruvianum 181.1. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - - scabrosum Mscr.
            
      

        
        Anagallis Monelli 211.2
        Convolvulus blandus Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - - umbellatus 221.13
        - - - - - - - - - sarmentosus Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - - humifusus Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - - amoenus Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - - brasiliensis 226.41
        Conocarpus racemosa 251.2
        Nicotiana Tabacum 258.3
        Physalis angulata 262.7
        Solanum verbascifolum 263.1
        - - - - - - - hirsutum Mscr.
        - - - - - - - rigidum Mscr.
        - - - - - - - Lycopersicum 265.11
        - - - - - - - nigrum patulum 266.15.B.
        - - - - - - - campechiense 267.18
        - - - - - - - panniculatum 267.10
        Capsicum annuum 270.1
        Wheleria oppositifolia Mscr.
        - - - - - - alternifolia
        Cordia? macrophylla 274.4?
        Varronia scabrosa Mscr.
        - - - - - - curassavica 276.4
        Ceratites amoena Mscr. fig. Pict.
        Cestrum nocturnum 277.1
        Sideroxylon laevigatum Mscr.
        Rhamnus Iguaneus 282.17. Mscr.
        Celastrus myrtifolius 285.3. Mscr.
        - - - - - - - laevigatus Mscr.
        Physiphora laevigata Mscr.
        Celosia cristata 297.3
        Illicebrum vermiculatum 300.10
        - - - - - - - glabratum Mscr.
            
      

        
        Echites pubescens Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - tomentosa Mscr.
        Tabernemontana cymosa L. Mant. 53
        Cynanchum suaveolens Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - crassifolium Mscr. fig. pict.
        Asclepias suaveolens Mscr. fig. pict.
        Chenopodium album 319.6.
        - - - - - - - - - - ambrosioides 320.10
        Gomphroena globosa 326.1. Hort.
        Coriandrum sativum 367.1. Hort.
        Anethum graveolens 371.1. Hort.
        Rhus obtusatum Mscr.
        Turnera ulmifolia 387.1
        Evolvulus nummularius 391.1
        Pocockia lucida Mscr.
        Hexandria
        Bromelia Ananas 408.1
        - - - - - - pseudo ananas Mscr. f.p.
        - - - - - - Karratas 408.3. Mscr.
        - - - - - - bracteata Mscr. fig. pict.
        Tillandsia utriculata 409
        - - - - - - - stricta Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - argentea Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - usneoides 411.9
        Amaryllis Reginae 421.5
        Alstroemeria salsilla 462.3. Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - - pulchella Mscr. fig. pict.
        Loranthus sessilis Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - decussatus Mscr.
        Octandria
        Calyxis ternaria Mscr. fig. pict.
        Dirca cymosa Mscr.
        Polygonum barbatum
            
      

        
        Baccharis Ivaefolia 1204.1
        Conyza sessiliflora Mscr.
        - - - - - - scabra Mscr.
        - - - - - - aromatica Mscr.
        Erigeron canadense 1210.5
        - - - - - - brasiliense Mscr.
        Tussilago albida Mscr.
        Senecio tinctus Mscr.
        - - - - - - viscosus?
        Tagetes patula 1249.1. Hort.
        Matricaria Parthenium 1255.1
        Zinnia multiflora 1269.2
        Buthalmum scabrosum Mscr.
        Verbesina Acmella 1271.5. Mscr.
        Calendula officinalis 1304.3. Hort.
        Elephantopus angustifolius Mscr.
        Impatiens Balsamina 1328.3. Hort.
        Gynandria
        Epidendrum secundum 1349.7. fig. Pict.
        - - - - - - - - - bifolium Mscr. fig. Pict.
        - - - - - - - - - corniculatum Mscr. fig. Pict.
        Passiflora humifusa Mscr.
        - - - - - - - setacea Mscr.
        Pothos lanceolata 1373.1. Mscr.
        Monoecia
        Olyra latifolia 1379.1. Mscr.
        Phyllanthus Niruri 1393.3
        Ambrosia elatior 1403.1
        - - - - - - - frutescens Mscr.
        Amaranthus viridis 1405.12
        - - - - - - - - caudatus 1406. 14
            
      

        
        Plukenetia tricocca Mscr.
        Dalechampia scandens 1423.1. Mscr.
        Acalypha virginica 1423.1. Mscr.
        Croton glandulosum 1425.7
        - - - - - balsamiferum L.Mant. 125. Mscr.
        - - - - - reticulatum Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - virgatum Mscr.
        Jatropha Manihot 1429.5
        - - - - - - Janipha L.Mant.125. Mscr. f.p. fruct.
        - - - - - - urens 1429.6
        Ricinus communis 1430.1
        Momordica Balsamina 1433.1
        Cucumis Anguria 1436.3
        - - - - - - sativus
        Cucurbita Pepo 1435.2
        - - - - - - - Citrullus 1435.5
        Dioecia
        Cecropia peltata 1449.1
        Smilax macrophylla Mscr.
        - - - - - oblongata Mscr.
        Dioscoraea subenervia Mscr.
        Alchornea rigida Mscr. fig. pict.
        Polygamia
        Andropogon lanatum Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - - bicorne 1482.12. Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - - polydactylon 1483.18. Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - - virgatum Mscr.
        Cenchrus setosus Mscr.
        - - - - - - - tribuloides 1489.5
        Celtis asperrima Mscr. f. p.
        Clusia dodecapetala Mscr. fig. pict.
        Begonia obliqua 1487.1
            
      

        
        Mimosa tortuosa 1505.13
        - - - - - pavonina Mscr.
        - - - - - polyphylla Mscr.
        - - - - - pigra 1507.37. Mscr.
        Cryptogamia
        Ophioglossum scandens 1518.6. f.p.
        Osmunda adiantifolia 1520.7
        Acrostichum aureum 1525.12
        Pteris dichotoma Mscr. f.p.
        - - - - ciliata Mscr. f.p.
        Asplenium glabratum Mscr. f.p.
        Polypodium reptans Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - - plumosum Mscr.
        - - - - - - - - - reticulatum 1549.34. f.p.
        Adiantum radiatum 1556.8
        Lichen prunastri 1614.39
        - - - - - compressus Mscr.
        Palmae
        Cocos nucifera
        Bactris minor L. Mant. 137. Mscr.
            
      

        Account of Terra del Fuego
        As this is to be the last time of our going ashore on this Island I take this opportunity to give an account of such things the shortness of my stay allowd me to observe.
        Notwithstanding almost all writers who have mentiond this Island have imputed to it a want of wood, soon after we first saw it even at the distance of some leagues, we plainly distinguish'd that the largest part
            
      

        
        of the countrey particularly near the sea coast was coverd with wood, which observation was verified in both the bays we put into, in either of which firing might have been got close by the beach in any quantity, and some trees which to all appearance might be fit for repairing a vessel or even in case of necessity to make masts.
        The hills are high tho not to be calld mountains, the tops of these however are quite bare and on them frequent patches of snow were to be seen, tho the time of the year when we were there answerd to the beginning of July in England.  In the valleys between these the Soil has much the appearance of Fruitfullness and is in some places of a considerable depth; at the bottom of almost every one of these runs a brook the water of which in general has a reddish Cast like that which runs through turf bogs in England but is very well tasted.
        Quadrupeds I saw none in the Island, exept the Seals and Sea lions which we often saw swimming about in the bay might be calld such, but Dr Solander and myself when we were on the top of the highest hill we
            
      

        
        were upon observ'd the footsteps of a large beast imprinted on the surface of a bog, but could not with any probability guess of what kind it might be.
        Land birds there are very Few.  I saw none larger than an English blackbird except hawks and a vulture, but water fowl are much more plentyfull; in the first bay we were in I might have shot any quantity of ducks or geese but would not spare the time from gathering plants.  In the other we shot some but probably the Indians in the neighbourhood had made them shy as well as much less plentiful, at least so we found them.
        Fish we saw few nor could with our hooks take any fit to eat.  Shell fish however are in the greatest abundance, limpits, muscles, Clams &c. none of them delicate yet such as they were we did not despise them.
        Insects there are very few and not one species either hurtfull or troublesome; all the time we have been here we have seen neither gnat nor musqueto a circumstance which few if any uncleard countrey but this
            
      

        
        can boast of.
        Of Plants here are many species and those truly the most extrordinary I can imagine, in stature and appearance they agree a good deal with the Europaean ones only in general are less specious, white flowers being much more common among them than any other colours.  But to speak of them botanicaly, probably No botanist has ever enjoyd more pleasure in the contemplation of his Favourite pursuit than Dr Solander and myself among these plants; we have not yet examind many of them, but what we have have turnd out in general so intirely different from any before describd that we are never tird with wondering at the infinite variety of Creation, and admiring the infinite care with which providence has multiplied his productions suiting them no doubt to the various climates for which they were designd.  Trees here are very Few, Birch Betula antarctica, Beach Fagus antarcticus, winters bark Winterana aromatica, the two first for timber the other for its excellent aromatick bark so much valued by Physicians are all worth mentioining; and of Plants we could not ascertain the virtues not being able to converse with the Indians who may have experiencd them, but the Scurvy grass Cardamine antescorbutica and wild Celery Apium
            
      

        
        were collected by the women, whose business it seemd to be to attend at low water with a basket in one hand, a stick with a point and barb in the other, and a satchel on their backs which they filld with shell fish, loosning the limpits with the stick and putting them into the basket which when full was emty'd into the satchel.
        Their arms consisted of Bows and arrows, the former neatly enough made the latter neater than any I have seen, polishd to the highest degree and headed either with glass or flint very neatly; but this was the only neat thing they had and the only thing they seemd to take any pains about.  Their houses which I have describd before are the most miserable ones imaginable and furniture they have none.
        That these people have before had intercourse with Europaeans was very plain from many instances: first from the Europaean Commodities of which we saw Sail Cloth, Brown woolen Cloth, Beads, nails, Glass &c, and of them especialy the last (which they used for pointing their arrows) a considerable quantity; from the confidence they immediately put in us at our first meeting
            
      

        
        tho well acquainted with our superiority; and from the knowledge they had of the use of our guns which they very soon shewd, making signs to me to shoot a seal who was following us in the boat which carried them ashore from the ship.  They probably travel and stay but a short time at a place, so at least it should seem from the badness of their houses which seem intirely built to stand but for a short time; from their having no kind of household furniture but what has a handle adapted to it either to be carried in the hand or on the back; from the thinness of their Cloathing which seems little calculated even to bear the summers of this countrey much less the winters; from their food of shell fish which must soon be exhausted at any one place; and from the deserted huts we saw in the first bay we came to where people had plainly been but a short time before, probably this spring.
        Boats they had none with them but as they were not sea sick or particularly affected when they came onboard our ship, possibly they might be left at some bay or inlet which
            
      

        
        passes partly but not all the way through this Island from the Streights of Magellan, from which place I should be much inclind to beleive these people have come as so few ships before us have anchord upon any part of Terra del Fuego,
        Their dogs which I forgot to mention seem also to indicate a commerce had some time or other with Europaeans, they being all of the kind that bark, contrary to what has been observd of (I beleive) all dogs natives of America.
        The weather here has been very uncertain tho in general extreemly bad: every day since the first more or less snow has fallen and yet the glass has never been below 38: unseasonable as this weather seems to be in the middle of summer I am inclind to think it is generaly so here, for none of the plants appear at all affected by it, and the insects who hide themselves during the time a snow blast lasts are the instant it is fair again as lively and nimble as the finest weather could make them.
            
      

        Plants collected at Terra del FuegoDiandria
        A. Lasiocarpus humilis Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Pinguicula alpina Linn. fig. pict.
        Triandria
        A. Carpha schoenoides Mscr. fig. pict.
        Scirpus setaceus Linn.
        A. Phleum alpinum Linn.
        Alopecurus pratensis Linn.
        A. Agrostis densa Mscr.
        - - - - - - canina Linn.
        A. Aira spicata Linn.
        - - - caespitosa Linn.
        A. - - - montana Linn.
        A. Poa alpina vivipara Linn.
        - - - pratensis Linn.
        A. Festuca pusilla Mscr.
        - - - - - rubra Linn.
        - - - - - spadicea Mscr.
        - - - - - purpurascens Mscr.
        - - - - - phalaroides Mscr.
        Bromus australis Mscr.
        Arundo aristata Mscr.
        Triticum repens Linn.
        A. Orites depressa Mscr. fig. pict.
        Tetrandria
        A. Drapetes muscosus Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Nertera depressa Mscr. fig. pict.
        Galium debile Mscr.
        - - - - - australe Mscr. fig. pict.
        Plantago polymorpha Mscr. fig. pict.
        Ancistrum decumbens Mscr. fig. pict.
            
      

        Plants of 
        A. Sagina muscosa Mscr. fig. pict.
        Tillaea pulchella Mscr. fig. pict.
        Pentandria
        Myosotis albiflora Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Primula antarctica Mscr.
        A. Azalea bullata Mscr. fig. pict.
        Celastrus venustus Mscr. fig. pict.
        Ribes antarcticum Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Euparaea amoena Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Chamitis integrefolia Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - - - tricuspidata Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - - - trifurcata Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - - - complicata Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - - - explanata Mscr. fig. pict.
        Scandix clavata Mscr. fig. pict.
        Apium antarcticum Mscr. fig. pict.
        Statice armeria Linn. fig. pict.
        A. Drosera uniflora Mscr. fig. pict.
        Hexandria
        A. Anthericum trifarium Mscr. fig. pict.
        Enargea marginata Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Juncus uniflorus Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - luridus Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - Uniglumis Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - llaniger Mscr.
        Berberis sempervirens Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - lparviflora Mscr. fig. pict.
        Euthalis lucida Mscr. fig. pict.
        Octandria
        Epilobium littorale Mscr.
        A. Nanodea muscosa Mscr. fig. pict.
            
      

        Plants of 
        Decandria
        A. Andromeda humilis Mscr. fig. pict.
        Arbutus rigida Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - - - angustifolia Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Arbutus parvifolia Msc.
        A. - - - - - - pumila Mscr. fig. pict.
        Chrysosplenium elevatum Mscr. fig. pict.
        Stellaria flaccida Mscr. fig. pict.
        Cerastium flaccidum Mscr. fig. pict.
        Dodecandria
        A. Leantria nitida Mscr. fig. pict.
        Winterana aromatica Mscr. fig. pict.
        Icosandria
        A. Rubus antarcticus Mscr. fig. pict.
        Geum littorale Mscr.
        Polyandria
        Ranunculus flaccidus Mscr. fig. pict.
        Caltha multicapsularis Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - paradoxa Mscr. fig. pict.
        Tetradynamia
        Dentaria polyphylla Mscr. fig. pict.
        Cardamine antescorbutica Mscr. fig. pict.
        Syngenesia
        A. Perdicium sinuatum Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - - - laevigatum Mscr. fig. pict.
        Leontodon lycodon Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - pubescens Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Crymalaea rigida Mscr. fig. pict.
        Cacalia lanuginosa Mscr. fig. pict.
        Gnaphalium littorale Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Baccharis humifusa Mscr. fig. pict.
            
      

        Plants of 
        Erigeron pauciflorum Mscr. fig. pict.
        Senecio tricuspidatus Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Aster glabratus Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - trifurcatus Mscr. fig. pict.
        Cineraria purpurascens Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - leucanthema Mscr. fig. pict.
        Bellis revoluta Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Cotula reptans Mscr. fig. pict.
        Amellus candidus Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Lobelia reptans Mscr. fig. pict.
        Viola palustris Linn.
        Gynandria
        Arethusa trifolia Mscr. fig. pict.
        Monoecia
        Carex spicata Mscr.
        - - - - - atrata Linn.
        - - - - - caespitosa Linn.
        A. Betula antarctica Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Fagus antarctica Mscr. fig. pict.
        Dioecia
        A. Dysemone integrifolia Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. - - - - - - - - lobata Mscr. fig. pict
        A. Empetrum rubrum Mscr. fig. pict.
        Myzodendrum planifolium Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - - - punctulatum Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Chortodaea ensata Mscr. fig. pict.
        Polygamia
        Holcus redolens Mscr.
        Cryptogamia
        Osmunda lunaria Linn.
        - - - - - - - spicant Linn.
            
      

        Plants of 
        Asplenium ruta-muraria Linn.
        Polypodium paleaceum Mscr. fig. pict.
        - - - - - - - - - fragile Linn.
        Trichomanes pyxidiferum Linn.
        A. Lycopodium glabellum Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Sphagnum palustre Linn.
        Polytrichum commune Linn.
        - - - - - - - - - urnigerum Linn.
        Mnium hygrometricum Linn.
        Bryum striatum Linn.
        - - - - - pomiforme Linn.
        - - - - - subulatum Linn.
        - - - - - mucronatum Mscr.
        - - - - - scoparium Linn.
        - - - - - viridulum Linn.
        - - - - - urceolatum Mscr.
        - - - - - angulatum Mscr.
        - - - - - pulvinatum Linn.
        Hypnum rutabulum Linn.
        - - - - - - squarrosum Linn.
        - - - - - - fruticulosum Mscr.
        Jungermannia pilosa Mscr.
        Marchantia polymorpha Linn.
        Lichen littoreus Mscr.
        - - - - - tenax Mscr.
        - - - - - aridus Mscr.
        - - - - - parietinus Linn.
        - - - - - physodes Linn.
        - - - - - fraxineus Linn.
        - - - - - pannosus Mscr.
        - - - - - antarcticus Mscr.
            
      

        Plants of 
        Lichen rangiferinus Linn.
        - - - - - uncialis Linn.
        - - - - - corniculatus Mscr.
        - - - - - pascalis Linn.
        - - - - - barbatus Linn.
        - - - - - pubescens Linn.
        - - - - - annulatus Mscr.
        Fucus giganteus Mscr.
        Ulva intestinalis Linn.
            
      

        Manners & customs of S. Sea Islands
        We have now seen 17 Islands in these Seas and been ashore upon 5 of the most principal ones.  Of these the Language manners and customs have agreed almost exactly, I should therefore be tempted to conclude that those of the Islands we have not seen differ not materialy at least from them.  The account I shall give of them is taken cheifly from Otahite where I was well acquainted with their most interior policy, as I found them to be a people so free from deceit that I trusted myself among them almost as freely as I could do in my own countrey, sleeping continualy in their houses in the woods with not so much as a single companion.  Whither or not I am right in judging their manners and customs to be general throughout these seas any one who gives himself the trouble of reading this Journal through will be as good a Judge as myself.
        All the Islands I have seen are very populous all along the sea coast, where are generaly large flats coverd with a vast many breadfruit and Cocoa nut trees.  Here are houses almost every 50 yards with their little plantations of Plantains, the tree that makes their cloth &c. but the inland parts are totaly uninhabited except in the vallies where are rivers and even there are but a small propo[r]tion of people
            
      

        
        to what live upon the flats.  They are of the larger size of Europaeans, all excellently made, and some handsome both men and women, the only bad feature they have is their noses which are in general flat, but to balance this their teeth are almost without exception even and white to perfection, and the eyes of the women especialy are full of expression and fire.  In Colour they differ very much: those of inferior rank who are obligd in the excersise of their professions, fishing especialy, to be much exposd to the sun and air are of a dark brown; the superiors again who spend most of their time in their houses under shelter are seldom browner (the women especialy) than that kind of Brunette which many in Europe preferr to the finest red and white.  Complexion indeed they seldom have tho some I have seen shew a Blush very manifestly; this is perhaps owing to the thickness of their skins, but that fault is in my opinion well compensated by their infinite smoothness much superior to any thing I have met with in Europe.
        The men as I have before said are rather large, I have measurd one 6 feet 3½ the superior women are also as large as Europaeans but the inferior sort generaly small, some very small owing possibly to their early amours which they are much
            
      

        
        more addicted to than their superiors.  Their hair is almost universaly black and rather coarse: this the women wear always cropt short round their ears, the men on the other hand wear it in many various ways, sometimes cropping it short, sometimes letting [it] grow very long and tying it at the top of their heads or letting it hang loose on their shoulders &c.  Their beards they also wear in many different fashions always however plucking out a large part of them and keeping that that is left very clean and neat.  Both sexes eradicate every hair from under their armpits and they look upon it as a great mark of uncleanliness in us that we did not do the same.
        During our stay in these Islands I saw some not more than 5 or 6 who were a total exception to all I have said before.  They were whiter even than us but of a dead Colour like that of the nose of a white horse; their eyes hair eyebrows and beards were also white; they were universaly short sighted and lookd always unwholesome, their skins scurfy and scaly and eyes often full of Rheum.  As they had no two of them any connextions with one another I conclude that the difference of colour &c. was totaly accidental and did not at all run in families.
        So much for their persons.  I shall now mention their method of Painting their bodies
            
      

        
        or Tattow as it is calld in their language.  This they do by inlaying the colour of Black under their skins in such a manner as to be indelible; every one is markd thus in different parts of his body according may be to his humour or different circumstances of his life.  Some have ill designd figures of men, birds or dogs, but they more generaly have this figure eitheir simply, as the women are generaly marked with it, on every Joint of their fingers and toes and often round the outside of their feet, or in different figures of it as square, circles, crescents &c. which both sexes have on their arms and leggs; in short they have an infinite diversity of figures in which they place this mark and some of them we were told had significations but this we never learnt to our satisfaction.  Their faces are in general left without any marks, I did not see more than one instance to the contrary.  Some few old men had the greatest part of their bodies coverd with large patches of black which ended in deep indentations like coarse imitations of flame, these we were told were not natives of Otahite but came there from a low Island called Noouoora.
        Tho they are so various in the application of the figures I have mentiond that both the
            
      

        
        for the service of the Publick.  Those of the Principal districts which Tupia recolected when added together amounted to 6680 men to which army it is probable that the small Quotas of the rest would not make any great addition.
        Besides these publick wars, which are to be headed by the Earee ra hie, any private difference between two Earees is decided by their own people without at all disturbing the tranquility of the Publick.  Their weapons are Slings which they use with great dexterity, pikes headed with the stings of sting Rays, and Clubbs of 6 or 7 feet long made of a very heavy and hard wood.  With these they fight by their own account very obstinately, which appears the more probable as the Conquerors give no Quarter to Man Woman or Child who is unfortunate enough to fall into their hands during or for some hours after the Battle,
            
      

        
        that is till their Passion is subsided.
        Otahite at the time of Our being there was divided into two Kingdoms, Oporeonoo the larger and Tiarrebo the smaller.  Each had its seperate king &c. &c. who were at Peace; the king of Oporeonoo however Calld himself king of both in just the Same manner as most European Monarchs usurp the Title of king over kingdoms over which they have not the least influence.
        It is not to be expected that in a Goverment of this kind Justice can be strictly administerd, we saw indeed no signs of Punishments during our stay.  Tupia however always insisted upon it that Theft was punishd with death and smaller crimes in proportion: in cases of Adultery the offenders were in the power of the offended party who if he takes them in the fact frequently kills them both.  All punishments however were the business of the injurd party, who if superior
            
      

        
        to him who committs the crime easily executes them by means of his more numerous attendants; equals seldom chuse to molest each other unless countenancd by their superior who assists them to defend their unjust acquisitions.  The cheifs however to whoom in reality all kinds of Property belong punish their dependants for crimes committed against each other, and the dependants of others if caught doing wrong within their districts.
            
      

        Some Account of New Zealand
        As we intend to leave this place tomorrow morn, I shall spend a few sheets in drawing together what I have observd of this countrey and its inhabitants; premising in the mean time that in this, and all others of the same kind which may occur in this Journal, I shall give myself liberty of conjecturing and drawing conclusions from which I have observd, in which I may doubtless often be mistaken; in the daily Journal however the Observations may be seen, and any one who referrs to that may draw his own conclusions from them, attending as little as he pleases to any of mine.
        This countrey was first discoverd by Abel Jansen Tasman on the 13th of December 1642 and calld by him New Zealand; he however never went ashore upon it, probably for fear of the natives; who when he had come to an anchor set upon one of his boats and killd 3 or 4 our of 7 people that were in her.
        Tasman certainly was an able navigator: he saild into the mouth of Cooks streights, and finding himself surrounded in all appearance with land observd the tide of flood to come from the SE; from thence he conjecturd that there was in that place a passage through the land, which conjecture we provd to be true and he himself had certainly done, had not the Wind changd as he though[t] in his favour, giving him an opportunity of returning the way he came in,
            
      

        
        which he preferrd to standing into a bay with an on shore wind.  Upon the strengh of conjecture only again, when he came  the lengh of cape Maria Van Dieman he observd hollow waves to come from the NE, from whence he concluded it to be the northermost part of the Land, which we realy found it to be: Lastly, to his eternal credit be it spoken, tho he had been four months absent from Batavia when he made this land, and had saild both Westward and Eastward, his longitude (allowing for an Error of                in that of Batavia as he himself has stated it) differs no more than               from ours, which is corrected by an innumerable number of observations of the Moon and Sun &c. as well as a transit of Mercury over the Sun; all calculated and observd by Mr Green, a mathematician of well known abilities, who was sent out in this ship by the Royal Society to observe the transit of Venus.  Thus much for Tasman: it were much to be wish’d however that we had a fuller account of his voyage than that publis’d by Dirk Rembranse, which seems to be no more than a short extract; and that other navigators would Imitate him in mentioning the Latitudes and Longitudes in which they account the places from whence they take their departure to be situated; which precaution, usefull as it is, may almost be said to have been usd by Tasman alone.
            
      

        
        The face of the countrey is in general Mountanous, especialy inland, where probably runs a chain of very high hills parts of which we saw at several times; they were generaly coverd with snow and certainly very high - some of our officers, men of experience, did not scruple to say as much so as The pike of Teneriffe; in that particular however I cannot quite agree with them, tho that they must be very high is sufficiently provd by the hill to the Northward of the mouth of Cooks streights, which was seen, and made no inconsiderable figure, at the distance of             Leagues.
        The sea coast (should it ever be examind) will probably be found to abound in good harbours: we saw several, of which the Bay of Islands or Motuaro, and Queen Charlots Sound or Totarra nue, are as good as any seaman need desire to come into, either for good anchorage or convenience of Wooding and watering.  The outer ridge of Land which lies open to the Sea is (as I beleive is the case in most countries) generaly Barren, especialy to the Southward, but within that the hills are Coverd with thick woods quite to the top, and every Valley produces a rivulet of Water.
        The soil is in general light, and consequently admirably adapted to the uses for which the natives cultivate it, whose crops consist intirely of roots.  On the Southern and western sides it is the most barren, the Sea being there generaly bounded with
            
      

        
        either steep hills or vast tracts of Sand, which probably is the reason why the people in these parts were so much less numerous, and livd almost intirely upon fish.  The Northern and Eastern sides make however some amends for the Barrenness of the others: in them we often saw very large tracts of Ground which either actualy were or very lately had been cultivated, and an immense quantity of Woodland, which was yet uncleard, but promisd great returns to the people who would take the trouble of Clearing it - of the latter especialy in Taoneroa or Poverty bay, and Tolaga - besides Swamps, which might doubtless Easily be draind, and sufficiently evincd the richness of their soil by the great size of all the plants that grew upon them, and more particularly of the timber trees which were the streightest, cleanest, and I may say the largest I have ever seen - at least speaking of them in the Gross; I may have seen several times single trees larger than any I Observd among them, but it was not one but all these trees which were enormous, and doubtless had we had time and opportunity to Search, we might have found much larger ones than any we saw, as we were never but once ashore among them, and that but for a short time on the banks of the River Thames; where we rowd for many miles between woods of these trees, to which we could see
            
      

        
        numerous harbours at the mouth of Cooks streights where they would be sure to meet with plenty of Water, Wood and fish. Here they should arrive by the month of October that they might have the good season before them to run across the South Sea, Which by reason of the Prevailing westerly winds they would easily be able to do in any Latitude; and if in doing this they should not fall in with a Continent they might still be of service by exploring the Islands in the Pacifick Ocean where they might refresh themselves and proceed home by the East Indies.  Such a Voyage, as a Voyage of Mere Curiosity, should be promoted by the Royal Society to whoom I doubt not but his majesty would upon a proper application grant a ship, as the subject of such a voyage seems at least as interesting to Science in general and the increase of knowledge as the Observation which gave rise to the Present one.  The small expence such an equipment is to goverment is easily shown: I will venture roundly to affirm that the Smallest
            
      

        
        Station Sloop in his majesties service is every year more expensive than this ship where every rope, every sail, every rope yarn even, is obligd to do its duty most thouroughly before it can be dismissd; how trifling then must this expence appear when in return for it the nation acquires experiencd seamen in those who execute it, and the Praise which is never denied to countries who in this publick spirited manner promote the increase of knowledge.
        At the Cape of Good Hope might be procurd Beef, Bread, Flower, Pease, Spirit, or indeed any kind of Provision at Reasonable Rates.  The Beef must be bought alive and salted, for which purpose it would be proper to take out salt from Europe; the general price which i[n[deed never varies is two pence a pound, it is tolerable meat but not so fat as ours in England.  Pork is scarce and dear, of that therefore a larger proportion might be taken out.  Bread, which varies in price, is of the Rusk kind, very good but rather brown.  Spirit is Arrack
            
      

        
        from Batavia, the Price of which after having paid the Duties of Import and Export is 60 Rd, 12 lb Sterling, a Legger of 150 Galls.  Wine is in vast plenty and very cheap and while I was there they began to Distill a kind of Brandy, which however at that time was as dear as Arrack and much inferior to it both in Strengh and goodness.
        Should a ship upon this Expedition be obligd to go into False Bay, into which the Dutch remove on the 12th of May, most of these articles might be got there at a small advance occasiond by the carriage which is very cheap; and any be wanted which could not, they might be brought from the Cape town either by Dutch Scoots of which there are several belonging to the Company in the Harbour, or by Waggons over land as the Road is good and much frequented at that season of the Year.
            
      

        Some account of that part of New Holland now called New South Wales
        Having now I beleive fairly Passd through between New Holland and New Guinea and having an open sea to the Westward, so that we tomorrow intend to steer more to the Northward in order to make the South Coast of New Guinea, it seems high time to take leave of New Holland, which I shall do by summing up together the few observations I have been able to make on the countrey and people. I much wishd indeed to have had better opportunities of seeing and observing the people, as they differ so much from the account that Dampier (the only man I know of who has seen them besides us) has given of them. He indeed saw them on a part of the coast very distant from where we were and consequently the people might be different; but I should rather conclude them to be the same, chiefly from having observd an universal conformity in such of their customs as came under my observation in the several places we landed upon during the run of 00 leagues along the coast. Dampier in general seems to be a faithfull relater, but in the voyage in which he touchd on the coast of New Holland he was in a ship of Pyrates, possibly himself not a little tainted by their idle examples: he might have kept no written
            
      

        
        Journal of any thing more than the navigation of the ship and when upon coming home he was sollicited to publish an account of his vogage have referrd to his memory for many particulars relating to people &c. These Indians when coverd with their filth which I beleive they never wash of are, if not coal black, very near it: as negroes then he might well esteem them and add the wooly hair and want of two fore teeth in consequence of the similitude in complexion between these and the natives of Africa; but from whatever cause it might arise, certain it is that Dampier either was mistaken very much in his account or else that he saw a very different race of people from those we have seen.
        For the whole lengh of coast which we saild along there was a sameness to be observd in the face of the countrey very uncommon; Barren it may justly be calld and in a very high degree, that at least that we saw.  The Soil in general is sandy and very light: on it grows grass tall enough but thin sett, and trees of a tolerable size, never however near together, in general 40, 50, or 60 feet assunder. This and spots sometimes
            
      

        
        very large of loose sand constitutes the general face of the countrey as you sail along it, and indeed of the greatest part even after you have penetrated inland as far as our situation would allow us to do.  The Banks of Bays indeed are generaly clothd with thick mangroves sometimes for a mile or more in breadth; the soil under these is rank mud always overflowd every spring tide.  Inland you sometimes meet with a bog upon which the grass grows rank and thick so that no doubt the soil is sufficiently fertile. The Valleys also between the hills where runs of water come down are  thick clothd with underwood, but they are generaly very steep and narrow, so that upon the Whole the fertile soil Bears no kind of Proportion to that which seems by nature doomed to everlasting Barrenness.
        Water is here a scarce article or at least was so while we were there, which I beleive to have been in the very hight of the Dry season; some places we were in where we saw not a drop, and at the two places where we filld for the ships use it was done from pools not brooks. This drought is probably owing to the dryness of a soil almost intirely
            
      

        
        composd of sand in which high hills are scarce. That there is plenty however in the rainy season is sufficiently evincd by the channels we saw cut even in rocks down the sides of inconsiderable hills; these were in general dry, or if any of them containd water it was such as ran in the woody valleys, and these seldom carried water above half way down the hill. Some indeed we saw that formd brooks and ran quite down to the sea but these were scarce and in general brackish a good way up from the beach.
        A Soil so barren and at the same time intirely void of the helps derivd from cultivation could not be supposd to yeild much towards the support of man. We had been so long at sea with but a scanty supply of fresh provisions that we had long usd to eat every thing we could lay our hands upon, fish, flesh or vegetable which only was not poisonous; yet we could but now and then procure a dish of bad greens for our own table and never but in the place where the ship was careend met with a sufficient quantity to supply the ship. There indeed Palm cabbage and what is calld
            
      

        
        from the main Land as Islands were on which we saw evident marks of their having been, such as decayd houses, fires, the before mentiond Turtle bones &c. May be at this more moderate time they may make and use such Canoes, and when the Blustering season comes on may convert the bark of which they were made to the purposes of covering houses, making Water buckets &c. &c. well knowing that when the next season returns they will not want a supply of bark to rebuild their vessels. Another reason we have to imagine that such a moderate season exists, and that the Winds are then upon the Eastern board as we found them, is that whatever Indian houses or sleeping places we saw on these Islands were built upon the summits of small hills if there were any, or if not, in places where no bushes or wood could intercept the course of the wind, and their shelter was always turnd to the Eastward. On the main again, their houses were universaly built in valleys, or under the shelter of trees which might defend
            
      

        
        them from the very winds which in the Islands they exposd themselves to.
        Of their Language I can say very little. Our acquaintance with them was of so short a duration that none of us attempted to use a single word of it to them, consequently the list of words I have given could be got no other manner than by signs enquiring of them what in their Language signified such a thing, a method obnoxious to many mistakes: for instance a man holds in his hand a stone and asks the name of [it]: the Indian may return him for answer either the real name of a stone, one of the properties of it as hardness, roughness, smoothness &c, one of its uses or the name peculiar to some particular species of stone, which name the enquirer immediately sets down as that of a stone. To avoid however as much as Possible this inconvenience Myself and 2 or 3 more got from them as many words as we could, and having noted down those which we though[t] from circumstances we were not mistaken in we compard our lists; those in which all the lists agreed, or rather were contradicted by none, we thought our selves moraly certain not to be mistaken in. Of these my list cheefly
            
      

        
        Wageegee   the head | Meanang   Fire Morye the hair | Walba   a stone Melcea the ears | Yowall   Sand Yembe the Lips | Gurka   a Rope Bonjoo the Nose | Bama   a Man Unjar the tongue | Poinja   a male Turtle  Wallar the Beard | Mameingo   a female Doomboo the Neck | Maragan   a Canoe Cayo the Nipples  | Pelenyo   to Paddle Toolpoor the Navel | Takai   Set down Mangal the Hands | Mierbarrar   smooth Coman the thighs | Garmbe   Blood Pongo the Knees | Yocou   Wood Edamal the Feet | Tapool   bone in nose Kniorror the Heel | Charngala   a Bag Chumal the Sole | Cherr } expressions maybe of admiration which they continualy usd while in company with us  Chongarn the ancle  | Cherco } Kulke  the Nails | Yarcaw } Gallan  the Sun | Tut tut tut tut  }     |   } 
        They very often use the article Ge which seems to answer to our English `a’ as Ge Gurka a rope.
        consists, some only being added that were in only one list such as from the ease with which signs might be contrivd to ask them were thought little less certain than the others.
            
      

        Some account of Savu
        I shall proceed now to give such an account of the Island as I could get together during our short stay, which short as it was was so taken up with procuring refreshments, in which occupation every one was obligd to exert himself, that very little I confess is from my own observation; almost every thing is gatherd from the Conversation of Mr Lange who at first and last was very free and open and I am inclind to beleive did not deceive us in what he told us, how much soever he migh[t] conceal, except perhaps in the strengh and warlike disposition of the Islanders, which account seems to contradict itself, as one can hardly imagine those people to be of a warlike disposition who have continued in peace time out of mind. As for the other Islands in this neighbourhood his information alone was all we had to go upon; I would not however neglect to set it down, tho in general it was of little more consequence than to confirm the policy of the duch in confining their spices to particular Isles, which being full of them cannot furnish themselves with provisions.
            
      

        
        The little Island of Savu, which trifling as it is appears to me to be of no small consequence to the Duch East India Company, is situate in Lat.      and Long          from the meridian of Greenwich; its lengh and breadth are nearly the same viz. about 6 German or 24 English miles. The whole is divided into 5 principalities, Nigries as they are calld by the Indians, Laai, Seba, Regeeuwa, Timo, and Massârâ, each governd by its respective Radja or King. It has 3 harbours, all good: the best is Timo, situate somewhere round the SE point of the Isle; the next Seba where we anchord, situate round the NW point; the third we learnt neither the name or situation of, only guess it to be somewhere on the South side. Off the West end of the Island is another calld Pulo with some additional name which in the hurry of business was forgot and never again askd for.
        The appearance of the Island especialy on the windward side where we first made it was allowd by us all to equal in beauty if not excell any thing we had seen, even parchd up as it was by a drought which Mr Lange informd us had continued for seven months without
            
      

        
        a drop of Rain interveening, the last rainy season having intirely faild them. Verdure indeed there was at this time no signs of, but the gentle sloping of the hills which were cleard quite to the top and planted in every part with thick groves of the fan Palm, besides woods almost of Cocoa nut trees and Arecas which grew near the sea side, filld the eye so compleatly that it hardly lookd for or missd the verdure of the earth, a circumstance seldom seen in any perfection so near the line. How beautifull it must appear when coverd with its springing crop of Maize, Millet, Indigo &c. which covers almost every foot of ground in the cultivated parts of the Island imagination can hardly conceive: the verdure of Europe set of by the stately pillars of India - Palms I mean, especialy the Fan palm which for streightness and proportion both of the stem to itself and the head to the stem far excells all the Palms that I have seen - requires a poetical imagination to describe and mind not unaquainted with such sights to conceive.
        The productions of this Island are Buffaloes, sheep, hogs, fowls, Horses, Asses, Maize,
            
      

        
        Guinea corn, Rice, Calevanses, Limes, oranges, Mangoes, Plantains, Water melons, Tamarinds, Sweet sops (annona squamosa), Blimbi (Averhoa Bilimbi), besides Cocoa nuts and Fan palm which last is in sufficient quantities should all other crops fail to support the whole Island, people, stock and all, who have been at times oblig’d to live upon its sugar Syrup and wine for some Months. We saw also a small quantity of European garden herbs as Cellery, Marjoram, Fennel and garlick and one single sugar cane. Besides these necessaries it has for the supply of luxury Betel and Areca, Tobacco, Cotton, Indigo, and a little Cinnamon - only planted for curiosity said Mr Lange; indeed I almost doubt whether or not it was genuine cinnamon as the Duch have been always so carefull not to trust any spices out of their proper Islands. Besides these were possibly many other things which we had not an opportunity of seeing and Mr Lange forgot or did not chuse to inform us of.
        All their Produce is in amazing abundance, so we judgd at least from the Plantations we saw, tho this year every crop had faild for
            
      

        
            Tooga the thighs Momonne  a man Rootoo the knees Mobunnee a woman Baibo the legs Catoo the Head Dunceala the feet Row Catoo the Hair Kissooei yilla the toes Matta the eyes Camacoo the arms Row na Matta the eyelashes Wulaba the Hand Sivanga the nose Cabaon A Buffaloe Cavaranga the cheeks Djara a horse Wo deeloo the ears Vavee a hog Vaio the Tongue Doomba a sheep Lacoco the neck Kesavoo a goat  Loosoo the breasts Gnaca  a dog Caboo Soosoo the nipples  Maio a cat  Dulloo the belly Mannu a fowl Assoo the navel Carow the tail 
        from him with the utmost facility. As I forgot to mention their language in its proper place I shall take this opportunity to write down the few observations I had an opportunity of making during our short stay. The genius of it seems much to resemble that of the South Sea Isles: in several instances words are exactly the same and the numbers are undoubtedly derivd from the same source. I give here a list of words:
            
      

        
        Rangoretoo  the beak  1. Usse Ica a fish 2. Lhua Unjoo a turtle 3. Tullu Nieu Cocoa nut 4.  Uppah  Boacoree Fan palm 5. Lumme Calella areca 6. Unna Canana Beetle 7. Pedu Aou Lime 8.  Arru  Manadoo a fish hook 9. Saou  Tata Tattow 10. Singooroo Lodo the Sun 11.  Singooring Usse &c Wurroo the moon 20. Lhuangooroo &c Aidassee the Sea 100. Sing Assu &c Ailei water 1000. Setuppah &c. Aee  Fine 10000. Selacussa &c. Maate to dye 100000. Serata &c Tabudje to sleep 1000000. Sereboo &c  Ta teetoo to rise     
        In the course of conversation Mr Lange gave us little accounts of the neighbouring Islands: these I shall set down just as they came to me merely upon his authority. First then beginning with the small Island to the westward of Savu calld Pulo ..............., this said he produces
            
      

        
        Nothing of consequence except Areca nuts of which the Duch annualy receive two sloop loads in return for their presents to the Islanders.
            
      

        Some account of the Isles near Savu
        Timor is the cheif Island in these parts belonging to the Duch, all the others in the neighbourhood being subject to it so far as that the residents on them go there once a year to pass their accounts. It is now in nearly the same state as it was in Dampiers time. The Duch have their fort of Concordia where are storehouses which according to Mr L’s account would have supplyd our ship with every article we could have got at Batavia, even salt Provisions and Arrack. The Duch are however very frequently at war with the natives even of Copang their next neighbours in which case themselves are obligd to send to the neighbouring Isles for provisions. The Portugese still possess their towns of Laphao and Sesial on the North side of the Island.
        About two years ago a French ship was wreckd upon the East coast of Timor; she lay some days upon the shoal when a sudden gale of wind coming on broke her up at once and drown’d
            
      

        
        most of the Crew among whoom was the Captn. Those who got ashore among whoom was one of the lieutenants made the best of their way towards Concordia, where they arrivd in four days having left several of their party upon the road. Their number was then above 80 who were supplyd with every necessary and had assistance given them in order to go back to the wreck and fish up what they could; this they did and recoverd all their Bullion which was in chests and several of their guns which were large. Their companions which they left upon the road were all missing; the Indians it was supposd had either by force or persuasion kept them among them, they being very desirous of having Europeans among them to instruct them in the art of war. After a stay of two months at Concordia their company was dimini[s]hd more than half by sickness’s, cheifly in consequence of the great fatigues they had endurd on those days when they got ashore and traveld to that place; these were then furnishd with a small ship in which they saild for Europe.
        We enquird much for the Island of Anabao
            
      

        
        or Anamabao mentiond by Dampier.  He assurd us that he knew of no Island of that name any where in these seas.  I since have observd that it is laid down in several charts by the name of Selam which is probably the real name of it.  Rotte is upon much the same footing as Savu - a Duchman resides upon it to manage the natives; its produce is also much like that of Savu; it has also some sugar which was formerly made by only bruising the canes and boiling the juice to a syrup as they do the Palm wine, lately however they have made great improvements in that manufactory.  Their are three Islands of the name of Solor laying to the eastward of Ende or Flores: these Islands are flat and low abounding with vast plenty of provisions and stock; they are also managd in the same manner as Savu; on the middlemost of them is a good harbour, the other two are without Shelter.  Ende is still in the hands of the Portugese who have a town and good harbour calld Larntuca on the NE corner of it; the old harbour of Ende situate on the South side of it is not
            
      

        
        near so good and therefore now intirely neglected.
        The inhabitants of each of these different Islands speak different languages and the cheif Policy of the Duch is to prevent them from learning each others language, as by this means they keep each to their respective Island, preventing them from entering into trafick with each other or learning from mutual intercourse to plant such things as would be of greater value to themselves than their present produce tho at the same time less beneficial to the Duch East Indian Company; and at the same time secure to themselves alone the benefit of supplying all their necessities at their own rates, no dout not very moderate.  This may possibly sufficiently account for the expence they must have been at in printing Prayer books, catechises &c. at their expence and teaching them to each Island in its own language rather than in Duch, which in all probability they might have as easily done, but at the risque of Dutch becoming the common language of these Islands and consequently the natives by its means gaining an intercourse with each other.
            
      

        Some account of Batavia
        Batavia, the capital of the Duch Dominions in India, and Generaly esteemd to be by much the finest town of those in the possession of Europeans in these parts, is situated in a low fenny plain where several small rivers which take their rise in the mountains calld Blaes Berg, about 40 miles inland, empty themselves into the sea.  This situation seems to have been pitchd upon by the Duch (always true to their commercial interests) intirely for the convenience of water carriage, which indeed few if any towns in Europe enjoy in a higher degree than this place.  Few streets in the town are without canals of a considerable breadth running through, or rather stagnating in them, which canals are continued for several miles round the town, and with 5 or 6 rivers, some of which are navigable 30, 40, or maybe many more miles into the inland countrey, make the carriage of every species of its produce inconceiveably cheap.
            
      

        
        It is very dificult to judge of the size of the town; the size of the houses, in general large, and the breadth of the streets increasd by their canals, makes it impossible to compare it with any English town; all I can say is, that when seen from the top of a building from whence the eye takes it in at one view, it does not look near so large as it seems to be when you walk about it.  Valentyne, who wrote about and before the year 1726, says that in his time there were within the walls 1242 Dutch houses and 1200 Chinese, without 1066 Dutch and 1240 Chinese, besides 12 Arrack houses; this number however appeard to me to be very highly exagerated, those within the walls especialy, but of all this I confess myself a very indifferent judge, having enjoyd so little health especialy towards the latter part of my stay that I had no proper oportunities of satisfying myself in such like particulars.
        The streets are broad and hansome
            
      

        
        and the Banks of the canals in general planted with rows of trees; a stranger on his first arrival is very much struck with these, and often led to observe how much the heat of the climate must be temperd by the shade of the trees and coolness of the water.  Indeed as to the first, it must be convenient to those who walk on foot, but a very short residence will shew him that their inconveniencies far overbalance any convenience he can derive from them in any but a mercantile light.  Instead of cooling the air they contribute not a little to heat it, especialy the stagnating ones of which sort are by far the greatest number, by reflecting back the fierce rays of the sun; in the dry season these stink most intolerably, and in the wet many of them overflow their banks, filling the lower stories of the houses near them with water.  Add to
            
      

        
        this that when they clean them, which is pretty often as some are not more than 3 or 4 feet deep, the black mud taken out is sufferd to lie upon their banks, that is in the middle of the street, till it has acquird a sufficient hardness to be conveniently laden into boats; this mud stinks most intolerably, as indeed it must, being cheifly formd from human ordure of which (as there is not a necessary house in the whole town) the Canals every morning receive their regular quota, and the more filthy recrements of housekeeping, which the uncommon police of the countrey suffers every body to throw into them.  Add to this that the running ones, which are in some measure free from the former inconveniences, have every now and then a dead horse or hog stranded in the shallow parts of them, a nuisance which
            
      

        
        among themselves as in Europe.  In civil matters I know nothing of their proceedings, but in criminal they are rather severe to the natives, and too Lenient to their countreymen, who whatever crime they have committed are always allowd to escape if they chuse it, and if brought to tryal very rarely punishd with death; while on the other hand, the Poor Indians are floggd, hangd, Broke upon the wheel, and even impald without mercy.  While we were there 3 remarkable Crimes were committed by Christians.  2 duelists killd each his antagonist and both fled; one took refuge on board our ship, bringing with him so good a character from the Batavians that the Captian gave him protection, nor was he ever demanded; the other I suppose went on board some other as he was never taken.  The other was a Portugese, who by means of a false key had robbd an office to which he belongd of 14 or 15 hundred pounds; he however was taken, but instead of death Condemnd to a publick whipping and banishment to Banda for 99 years.
        The Malays and Chinese have each proper officers of their own, a Captain and lieutenants as
            
      

        
        they are calld, who administer Justice among them in Civil cases, liable to an appeal to the Dutch court, which however rarely happens.  Before the Chinese Rebellion as the Dutch, or Massacre as the Chinese themselves and most Europeans Call it, in 1740, when the Dutch upon may be too slight an information massacred no man knows how many thousand Chinese unresisting, for a supposd rebellion, which they to this day declare to have been never so much as thought of by them, the Chinese had two or three of their body in the Council and many more priviledges than now; nor have they from that time to this by any means recoverd either their former Oppulence or numbers, every one now who has got any thing considerable chusing to retire with it either to China, or any where, rather than remain in the power of a people who have behavd so ill to them.
        The taxes paid by these people to the Company are very considerable, among which that commonly said to be paid for the liberty of wearing their hair is not inconsiderable; it is however no other than a kind of head money
            
      

        
        or Poll tax, for no Chinese can wear his hair who has ever been in China, it being a principle of their religion never to let their hair grow again when once it has been shavd off.  These taxes are paid monthly, when a flag is hoisted at a house in the middle of the town appointed for that purpose.
        The money current here is Ducats worth 11s/- sterling, Ducatoons 6/8, Imperial Rixdollars 5/, Rupees 2/6, scellings /6, Dubblecheys /2½, and doits ½.  Spanish dollars were when we were there at 5/5 and we were told were never lower than 5/4 even at the Companies warehouse.  For English guineas I could get no more than 19/, for tho the China men would give 20/ for some of the Brightest they would for those at all worn give no more than 17/.  Strangers must however be cautious in receiving money, as there are of several kinds two sorts, milld and unmilld.  Ducatoons for example when milld are worth 6/8, unmilld only 6/-.  All accounts are kept in Rixdollars and Stivers, both imaginary Coins, at least here: the first worth 4/ the other /1.  It must also be remar[k]d that this valuation of their coin is rated on the supposition of a Stiver being worth a penny which is realy worth more, a current Rixdollar of 48 stivers being worth 4/6.
            
      

        Some account of Princes Island
        Princes Island as it is calld by the English, in Malay Pulo Selan, and in the language of its inhabitants Pulo paneitan, is a small Island situated in the Western mouth of the streights of Sunday; it is woody, and has no remarkable hill upon it, tho the English call the small one which is just over the anchoring place the Pike.  This Island was formerly much frequented by India ships of many nations but especialy English, who have of late forsaken it on account it is said of the Badness of its water, and stop either at North Island, a small Island on the Sumatra Coast without the East Entrance of the Streights, or at New Bay, a few leag[u]es only from Princes Island, at neither of which places however any quantity of refreshments can be procurd.
        Its cheif produce is water, which is situated in such a manner that if you are not carefull in filling high enough up the Brook it will inevitably be brackish, from which circumstance alone I beleive it has got a Bad name with almost all nations; Turtle, of which however its supplys are not great, so that if a ship comes second or third in the season she must be contented with small ones, and no great plenty of them - as indeed
            
      

        
        was in some measure our case; we bought at very various prizes according to the humour of the people, but altogether I beleive they came to about 1 halfpenny or _ a pound.  They were of the Green kind, but not fat or well flavourd in any degree as they are in most other parts, which I beleive is in great measure owing to the people keeping them sometimes very long in crawls of Brackish water, where they have no kind of food given to them.  Fowls are tolerably cheap, a dozen of large ones sold when we were there for a Spanish Dollar which is /5d a peice.  They have also plenty of Monkeys and small deer (moschus pygmaeus) the largest of which are not quite so big as a new faln Lamb, and another kind of Deer calld by them Munchack about the size of a sheep; the monkeys were about ½ a dollar 2/6, the small deer /2d, the larger, of which they brought down only 2, a rupee or 2s/.  Fish they have of many various kinds which are sold by hand as you can bargain, we found them however always tolerably cheap.  Vegetables they have, Cocoa nuts a dollar for 100 if you chuse them or 130 if you take them as they come; Plantanes
            
      

        
        Plenty, some water melons, pine apples, Jaccas, Pumkins, also Rice cheifly of the mountain sort which grows on dry land, Yams and several other vegetables all which are sold reasonably enough.
        The inhabitants are Javans whose Radja is subject to the Sultan of Bantam, from whoom they receive orders and to whoom they possibly pay a tribute, but of that particular I am not certain.  Their customs I beleive are very much like those of the Indians about Batavia, only they seem much more jealous of their women, so much so that I never saw one the whole time of our stay except she was running away full speed to hide herself in the woods.  Their Religion is Mahometanism but I beleive they have not a Mosque upon the Island; they were however very strict in the observance of their Fast (the same as the Ramdan of the Turks) during which we hapned to come: not one would touch victuals till sun set or even chew their Betele, but _ or an hour before all went home to cook the kettle nor would they stay for any thing but view of extrordinary profit.
            
      

        
        Their food was nearly the same as the Batavian Indians, adding only to it the nuts of the Palm calld Cycas circinalis with which on the Coast of New Holland some of our people were made ill and some of our hogs Poisond outright.  Their method of preparing them to get out their deleterious qualities they told me were first to cut the nuts into thin slices and dry them in the sun, then to steep them in fresh water for three months, afterwards pressing the water from them and drying them in the sun once more; they however were so far from being a delicious food that they never usd them but in times of scarcity when they mixt the preparation with their rice.
        Their Town which they calld Samadang consisted of about 300 houses; great part of the old town however was in ruins.  Their houses were all built up on pillars 4 or 5 feet above the ground.  The Plan of that of Gundang, a man who seemd to be next in riches and influence to the king, will give an Idea of them all: it was walld with boards, a luxury none but the king and himself had, but in no other
            
      

        
        South Sea Malay Java Princes Island  1. Matta  Majta Moto Mata an Eye 2. Maa Macan Mangan to eat   3. Einu Menum Gnumbe to drink   4. Matte Matte Matte to kill   5. Outou Coutou a louse     6. Euwa Udian Udan Rain   7. Owhe         Awe Bambu cane 8. Eu Sousou   Sousou a Breast   9. Mannu Mannu   Mannuk a bird 10. Eyea Ican Iwa a fish   11. Uta Utan inland     12. Tapoa   Tapaan the foot   13. Tooura Udang Urang a lobster   14. Eufwhe  Ubi Uwe Yams   15. Etannou  Tannam Tandour to bury   16. Enammou Gnammuck a Muscheto     17. Hearu Garru Garu to scratch   18. Taro Tallas Talas cocos roots    19. Outou     Sungoot the mouth 20.  Eto Tao  sugar cane          
        Specimens of Language
            
      

        
          S. Sea Malay  Java  Princes Isle Madagascar  1. Tahie Satou Sigi Hegie  Ifse 2. Rua Dua Lorou Dua Rua 3. Torou  Tiga Tullu Tollu Tellou 4. Haa  Ampat Pappat Opat Effats 5.  Rima Lima Limo Limah Limi 6. *Wheney Annam Nunnam Gunnap Ene 7. Hetu Tudju Petu Tudju  Fitou 8. Waru Delapan Wolo Delapan Walou 9. Iva Sembilan Songo Salapan Sivi 10. Ahouroo Sapoulou Sapoulou  Sapoulou  Fourou 11. Matahie  Sabilas Suvalas     12. Marua Dubilas Roalas     20. Tahie  Taou Duapoulou Rompoulou   100. Rima Taou Saratus Satus  Satus   200. Mannu dua ratus Rongatus     1000. Lima mannu Soreboo Seawo Seawo   2000. Mannu Tine          
        * N.B. in the Island of Ulietea 6 is calld ono.
            
      

        
        The Madagascar language has also som[e] words similar to Malay words, as ouron the nose, in Malay Erung Lala, the tongue Lida Tang, the hand Tangan Taan, the ground Tanna.
        From this similitude of language Between the inhabitants of the Eastern Indies and the Islands in the South Sea I should have venturd to conjecture much did not Madagascar interfere; and how any Communication can ever have been carried between Madagascar and Java to make the Brown long haird people of the latter speak a language similar to that the Black wooly headed natives of the other is I confess far beyond my comprehension - unless the Egyptian Learning running in two courses, one through Africa the other through Asia, might introduce the same words, and what is still more probable Numerical terms, into the languages of people who never had any communication with each other.  But this point requiring a depth of knowledge in Antiquities I must leave to Antiquarians to discuss.
            
      

        Some account of the Cape of Good Hope
        Notwistanding Hydrographers limit the Cape of Good Hope to a single point of Land on the SW end of Africa which is not the Southermost part of that immense continent I shall under that name speak of the Southern parts of Africa in general as far as Lat. 30..00 at least, which countrey was originaly inhabited by the Hottentots alone but is now settled by the Dutch, and from its conveniency of situation as a place of refreshment for ships sailing to and from India is visited perhaps by Europeans oftener than any other distant part of the Globe.
        This tract of Land, vast as it is, is settled by the Dutch who have also people much farther in land if their accounts can be credited; they have upon the whole of it however only one town which is generaly known by the Name of the Cape Town.  It is situated on the Atlantick side, about 20 miles to the Northward of the Real Cape, on the Banks of a bay shelterd from the SE wind by
            
      

        
        a large mountain level at the top, from whence both itself and the bay have got the name of Tafel or Table.  It is of late years very much increasd in size and consists of about a thousand houses neatly built of Brick and in general whited over; the Streets in general are broad and commodious all crossing each other at Right angles; in the Cheif of them is a Canal on each side of which is a row of Oak trees which flourish tolerably well and yeild an agreable shade to walkers.  Besides this there is another Canal running through the town, but the slope of the Ground is so great that both are obligd to be furnishd with sluices at the intervals of little more than 50 yards.
        In the Houses the same poverty of inventions exists here as at Batavia: they are almost universaly built upon one and the same plan whether small or large; in general they are low and universaly they are coverd with thatch, precautions said to be necessary
            
      

        
        against the violence of the SE winds which at some seasons of the year come down from the Table mountain with incredible violence.
        Of the Inhabitants a far larger proportion are real Dutch than of those of Batavia.  But as the whole town in a manner is supported by entertaining and supplying strangers, each man in some degree imitates the manners and customs of the Nation with which he is cheifly concernd: the Ladies however do not follow their husbands in this particular but so true are they to the customs of fatherland that scarce one of them will stir without a Sooterkin or Chaufett ready to place under her feet whenever she shall set down; the Younger ones tho in general do not put any fire in them but seem to use them merely for shew.  In general they are hansome with clear skins and high Complexions and when married (no reflextions upon my countrey women) are the best housekepers imaginable
            
      

        
        and great childbearers; had I been inclind for a wife I think this is the place of all others I have seen where I could have best suited myself.
        Their servants are in general Malay slaves who are brought here from Batavia.  To these they behave much better than the Batavians in consequence of which these Malays are much quieter, honester, more diligent and less wicked than those in that place, in instance of which I need only say that there was never known an instance of running Amoc in this place.
        The Town is governd by a Governor and Council who are quite independent of Batavia.  The Present Governor is Ryck Tulback.  He is very old and has long enjoyd his present station with a most universal good Character, which is easily explaind in this manner: he is unmarried and has no connections which may make him wish to make more money than
            
      

        
        In regard to the Sinus Pudoris, that grand Quaere of Natural historians, Many whoom I askd both Dutch and Malays declard positively that it did not at all exist, and several of these Assurd me that they had during intrigues with Hottentot women had an opportunity of knowing which they had made use of.  One however declard that something he had met with but what it was he could not tell; and above all a physician of the place declard that he had curd many Hundred Hottentot women of venereal Complaints, and that he never saw one without what he describd to be fleshy or rather skinny appendages proceeding from the upper part of the Labia, in appearance somewhat like Cows teats but flat which hung pendulous; these were very various in lengh, in some scarce half an inch, in others three or four; that those, which were the only particularities he knew of in those women, he apprehended to be what  a[u]thours have calld sinus pudoris, tho some have describd it as a large skin equal to a garment for all purposes of
            
      

        
        decency, and others have thought it to be no more than an elongation of the Clytoris in those women, which does not exist in those women at all more remarkable than in Europeans.
            
      

        
          £  S  D  A Guinea... 00 18 00 half of Do.... 00 9  00 a Crown peice 0  4  0  half of Do...... 0  2  0  a Shilling 0 0 10 a Louis D'Or...       a French Crown...   4 6 a Ducat    9 0 a Ducatoon...   6 0 a Skilling....   0 6 a Dubblechey...   0 2 a Stuiver...   0 1 an Imperial Rixdollar...   4 0 Alberts Do.....   6 0 Danes Rixdollar...   4 0 Spanish Dollar...   4 6 a Quarter of Do.....   1 0 
            
      

        Some account of St Helena
        This small Island, which is no more than twelve miles long and seven broad, is situated in a manner in the Middle of the Vast Atlantick Ocean being 400 Lgs. distant from the Coast of Africa and above 600 from that of America. It appears to be or rather is the summit of some immence mountain which towering far above the level of the Earth (in this part of the Globe very much depressd) elevates itself even considerably above the surface of the Sea, which covers its highest neigbours with a body of water even to this time unfathomable to the researches of Mankind.
        The higher parts of all Countreys have been observd almost without exception to be the seats of Volcanoes while the lower parts are much seldomer found to be so.  Etna and Vesuvius have no land higher than themselves in their neighbourhood; Heckla is the highest hill in Iceland; in the highest part of the Andes in South America volcanoes are frequent;
            
      

        
        and the Pike of Teneriffe still is on fire.  These still Continue to burn, but numberless others have been found to shew evident marks of Fires now extinct and which have been so from the times of Our Earliest traditions.
        That this has been the Case with St Helena and that the great inequalities of the ground there have been originaly causd by the sinking of the ground, easily appears to an observing eye who compares the opposite ridges, which tho seperated always by deep and sometimes by tolerably broad Valleys, have such a perfect similarity in appearance as well as direction as scarce leaves room for a doubt that they formerly made a part of a much less uneven surface; and that this sinking in of the Earth has been occasiond by subterraneous fires the stones Abunduntly testifie, as they universaly shew marks of having been some time or other exposd to the effects of a great degree of heat.
            
      

        
        Some are Evidently burnt almost to a cinder, especialy those which are found near the bottoms of Valleys, as may be seen in going up Side Path and probably Ladder Hill also; others shew small bubbles as is seen in glass which has been urgd almost to fusion; again others which perhaps from their situation on the tops of Ridges have been exposd to a far less degree of heat or from their own apyrous qualities shew scarce any signs of having been in fire: yet in many of these if carefully examind are found small peices of extraneous bodies such as Mundics &c which have submitted to the fire, tho it was not able to make any alteration in the appearance of the stone which containd them.
        Thus much for these Suggestions, fit only for those who can beleive a Babilonian Chronology.  I Pass now to the present state of the Island, a subject which would afford much entertainment to a contemplative mind
            
      

        
        and more food to an inquisitive one than the shortness of my stay gave me opportunity to collect.
        Making it as we did and indeed most ships do on the windward side it is a rude heap of Rocks bounded by precipecis of an amazing height, composd of a kind of half friable rocks which however shew not the Least sign of vegetation, nor does a nearer view apear more promising.  In sailing along the shore ships come uncommonly near it so that the huge Clifts seem almost to overhang and threaten destruction by the apparent probability of their giving way: in this manner they Sail till they open Chappel Valley where stands the small town.  Even that valley resembles a large trench, in the bottom of which a few plants are to be seen, but its sides are as bare as the cliff next the Sea.  Such is the apparent barrenness of the Island in its present cultivated state, nor do you see any signs of fertility
            
      

        
        ashore, a custom from whence all nations have since reapd no small benefit.  Amongst its native products however Ebony must be recond, tho the trees that produce it are now nearly extinct and no one remembers the time when they were at all plentifull, yet peices of the wood are frequently found in the vallies of a fine black Colour and a hardness almost equal to Iron; these however are almost always so short and so crooked that no use has yet been made of them.  Whether the tree is the same as that which produces Ebony on the Isle of Bourbon and its adjacent Islands is impossible to know as the French have not yet publishd any account of it.  Other species of trees and plants which seem to have been originaly natives of the Island are few in number.  Insects there are also a few, and one species of Snails who inhabit only the tops of the Highest ridges and probably have been there ever since their original creation.
            
      

        
        Had our stay upon the Island been Longer we should in all probability have discoverd some more natural productions but in all likelyhood not many.  Secluded as this rock is from the rest of the World by seas of immence extent it is dificult to imagine how any thing not originaly created in that spot could by any accident arrive at it; for my part I confess I feel more wonder in the finding a little Snail on the top of the Ridges of St Helena than in finding people upon America or any other part of the Globe.
        As the benefits of the Land are so limited the Sea must often be applied to by the natives of this little rock, nor is she unmindfull of their necessities which she constantly supplies with immence plenty and no less variety of Fish.  She indeed would be culpable did she do otherwise: she never met with a calamity equal to that of the earth in the General Deluge, and her sons have moreover the
            
      

        
        advantage of a free intercourse with all parts of the globe Habitable to them without being driven to the Necessity of tempting the dangers of an element unsuited to their natures - a fatal necessity under which too many even of us Lords of the Creation Yearly perish, and of all others through the wide bounds of Creation how vast a proportion must.  The seed of a thistle supported by its down, the Insect by its weak and the Bird by its more able wing, may tempt the dangers of the sea, but of these how many milions must perish for one who arrives at the Distance of twelve hundred miles from the place of his rest; it appears indeed far more dificult to account for the passage of one individual than to bel[e]ive the destruction of all that ever may have been by their ill fate hurried into such an attempt.
        Money of all nations passes here according to its real intrinsick European value, therefore there is no kind of trouble on that head as in all the Dutch Settlements.
            
      

       
            
      

        Table of Contents
        1....Account of Madeira19....
          Fish and Plants of Madeira33....Account of Rio de Janeiro60....Plantae Brasilienses71....Account of Terra del Fuego82....Plants collected at Terra del Fuego88....Manners & customs of S. Sea Islands191....Some Account of New Zealand259....Some account of that part of New Holland now called New South Wales311....Some account of Savu349....Some account of the Isles near Savu353....Some account of Batavia437....Some account of Princes Island449....Some account of the Cape of Good Hope475....Some account of St Helena
            
          
        © February 2004
        Published by South Seas, using 
        the Web Academic Resource 
        Publisher
