
A philosophical and political history of the settlements and trade of the Europeans in the East and West Indies. Translated from the French by J. Justamond, M. A. .
A PHILOSOPHICAL AND POLITICAL H I S T O R Y,OF THE SETTLEMENTS AND TRADE,OF THE E U R 0 P E A N S /,I The EAST AN.D.WEST INDIES.,TRANSLATED FR From THE French -' .BY J. JUSTAMOND, M. A.,VOLUME THE First ",? - London N: Printed FOR T. CADELL, IN THE STRAND.,MDCC.LXXVX.
A PHILOSOPHICAL AND POLITICAL H I S T O R Y,oF THE SETTLEMENT AND TRADE,OF THE E U R 0 P E A N Sin The EAST AND WEST IN1IES.,B O O K I. I N T R' O D U C T I O N. O event has been so interesting to mankind in ge B O 0 K neral, and to the inhabitants of Europe-in particle lar, as the discovery of the new world, and the passage to The dco- India by the Cape of Good Hope. It gave rise to a revo- vorie,wars, luton in the commerce, and in the power of nations; and a"d conquers of the in the manners, industry, and government of the world in Portuguese general. At this period new connexions were formed by in tdih the most distant regions, for the supply of wants they had never before experienced. The productions of climates situated near the equator, were consumed in countries bordering on the pole; the industry of the north was transplanted to the south; and the inhabitants of the weft, were cloathed with the manufactures of the east: a general intercourse of opinions, laws and customs, diseases and remedies, virtues aind'vices, was established throughout the world. VOL. I. B Every
B 0 0 K EE aRT thing has changed, and must change again. But,it is a question, whether the revolutions that are passed, or those which muff hereafter take place, have been, or can be of any utility to the human race ? Alt they ever add to the tranquility, the happiness, and the pleasures of mankind ? Can they improve our present state, or do they only change it ? THE Europeans have founded colonies in all parts, but are they acquainted with the principles on which they ought to be established? They have indeed encouraged mutual commerce, and promoted agriculture and industry. The commerce is transferred from one people to another. Can we not discover by what means and in what situations this has been effected ? Since America, and the pas sage by the Cape has been known, some nations that were of no consequence are become powerful: others, that were the terror of Europe have lost their authority. How has the condition of these several people been affected by these discoveries ? How comes it to pais that those to whom na ture has been roost liberal, arc not always the richest and most flourishing? To throw some light on these import ant questions, we must tzl:e a view of the state of Europe before these discoveries were made, we must trace circum frantically the events they have given rise to, and conclude with examining it, as it presents itself at this day. THE commercial states have civilized all others. The Phoenicians, whose extent of country and influence were extremely limited, by their genius for naval enterprizes, acquired an importance which ranked them foremost in the history of ancient nations. THEY are mentioned by writers of every class. They. were known to the most distant climes, and their same has been transmitted to succeeding ages. SITUATED on a barren coast, separated from the con tient by the Mediterranean on one side, and, the mountains
pains of Linus on the other; they seem to have been B O o K destined by nature for the dominion of the sea. Fishing l taught them the arwvof navigation, and furnished them with the purple dye which they extracted from the murex: at the same time the sea-sand led them to discover the secret of making glass. Happy in enjoying io few natural advantages, for the want of these awakened that spirit of invention and industry, which is the parent of arts and opulence! IT must be confessed, that the situation of the Phoenicians was admirably adapted to extend their commerce to every part of the world. By inhabiting, as it were, the confines of Africa, Asia, and Europe, if they could not unite the inhabitants of the globe in one common interest, they at least had it in their power, by a commercial intercourse, to communicate to every nation the enjoyments of all climates But the ancients, who, though they have taught the moderns much useful knowledge, have often been ex celled by them, had not sufficient means to enable them to establish an universal commerce. The Phoenicians had no shipping except gallies; they only carried on a coasting trade, and their failing was confined to the Mediterranean. Though this state was the model upon which other mari time powers were formed, it is not so easy to deter mine what they have done, as what they might have done. We may form a conjecture of their population by their colonies. It is said that their numbers extended along the borders of the Mediterranean, particularly on the coasts of Africa. TYRE or Sidon, the queen of the ocean, gave birth to Carthage. While the opulence of Tyre invited tyrants to rivet its fetters, Carthage, the offspring of Tyre, not, withstanding its riches, had this happy advantage over the parent state, that it enjoyed its liberty. It commanded the coasts of Africa, and had possessions Spain, which was even then the richest country in Europe, and famous for I
B 0 0 K for its own gold and silver mines, though destined at theol e expence of so much bloodshed, to acquire others in the,new world. HAD the Roman power never existed, Carthage would in all probability have been nothing more than a commercial state; but the ambition of one nation excited all the rest to relinquish the arts of commerce for those of war, and either to conquer or to perish. Carthage, after a long and glorious contest for the empire of the world, wa; forced to submit to the all-subduing genius of Rome. The sub version of a republic, which gloried in their industry, and owed their power to their skill in useful arts, was, per laps, a misfortune to Europe, and to the world in general. GREEcE, intersected on all sides by seas, must necessarily flourish by commerce. Its situation in the Archipelago, and its distance from any large continent, seemed to make it unlikely that it should either conquer or be con queried. Situated between Asia and Europe, it contributed to civilize both the one and the other, and enjoyed a deserved share of prosperity, as the reward of its services. As almost all the Greeks came either from Egypt or Phoenicia they brought along with them the knowledge and industry of those countries; but of all the Asiatic colonies, those were the mot flourishing and happy, which had a turn for commerce. ATHENS employed her first ships either in trafficking in Asia, or in planting as many colonies as Greece in her. in fancy might have received from thence: but these emi orations involved them in wars. The Persians, living under an arbitrary government, would not even sussex any free people to fettle on the confines of the lea; and the Satraps inculcated into the great king, the doctrine of uni versal slavery. This was the source of all the wars in Asia Minor, where the Athenians found means to make all the insular and maritime states either their allies or their subjects. Athens enlarged her commerce by.her victories,,and
and her power by her commerce. All the arts made their B O O K appearance in Greece at the same time, together with the luxury of Asia. Commerce, agriculture, and the means of population, were introduced into Sicily by the Greeks and the Carthaginian Rome, who beheld their progress with a jealous eye, made itself master of an island which supplied Sicily; and having driven out the two nations that contended for the-sovereignty of it, attacked first one, and then the other. From the moment that Carthage was destroyed, Greece trembled for her fate. But it was'Alexander who marked the way for the Romans; nor was it possible, per laps, that the Greeks could have been subdued by a so reign power, if they had not first conquered each other. Commerce is finally destroyed by the riches it accumulates, as power is by its own conquests; and when the com mere of the Greeks had failed in the Mediterranean, it no longer subsisted in any part of the known world. THE Greeks, by improving upon all the sciences, and arts they had received from the Egyptians, and Syrians, elevated human reason to a degree of perfection, which has been reduced so low by the subsequent revolutions of empires, that in all probability it will never rise again to the same standard. Their admirable institutions were superior to the best we have at this day. 1 he plan upon which they founded their colonies does honour to their humanity. As all the arts owed to them their rise, and perfection, these did not survive the fate of their protectors It is evident from some works of Xenophon, that they were better acquainted with tie principles of trade, than most modern nations are at present. IF we consider that Europe has the advantage of all the knowledge of the Greeks, that her commerce is infinitely more extensive, that since the improvements in navigation, our ideas are directed to greater, and more various objees; it is astonishing that we should not have the most palpable 3 superiority
B 0 0 K superiority over them. But it muftbeobferved, that when these people arrived at the knowledge of the arts and of trade, they werejuft produced as it were from the hands of nature, and had all the powers necessary to improve the talents she had given them: whereas the European nations had the misfortune to be restrained by laws, ,i by government, and by an exclusive and imperious J religion. In Greece the arts of trade met with men, in,Europe with slaves. Whenever the absurdities of our in situations have been pointed out, we have taken pains to correct them, without ever daring totally to overthrow the edifice. We have remedied some abuses, by intro during others; and, in our efforts to support, reform and palliate, we have adopted more contradictions and ab absurdities in our manners, than are to be found among the molt barbarous people. For this reason, if the arts should ever gain admission among the Tartars, and Iroquois, they will make an infinitely more rapid progress among them, than they can ever do in Russia and Poland. THE Romans, formed for conquest, though they dazzled the world with an appearance of grandeur, sell hort of the Greeks in their improvements in philosophy, and the arts. They promoted an intercourse between different J nations, not by uniting them by the ties of commerce but by imposing upon them the same yoke of subordination They ravaged the globe, which when reduced to subjection, they left in a state rather of lethargy than tranquility. Their despotism and military government oppressed the People, extinguished the powers of genius, and degraded the human race. Constantine passed two laws, which though Mon tefquieuhas not ventured to reckon them among the causes of:he declension of the empire, threw every thing into still greater disorder. The first, dictated by imprudence and fanaticism, though it appeared to be the effect of humanity, affords a proof that great innovations are often attended with
with great danger; and that the original tights of man/t- B 0 k kind cannot always be made the standard of goverrifimeht. .-By this law, all saves who should embrace christianity, were allowed their freedom. Thus, while those who had hi ther tod ragged on a precarious existence, were reinstated In their primitive rights, the state Was weakened; because the proprietors of large traces of land were deprived of the number of hands necessary for their improvement, and for rome time reduced to the extremest indigence. On the other hand, the new converts, having no property themselves, or any certain means of subsistence, were lot in a condition to assist the slate, in repairing the injury it had done to their mailers. It is equally impossible that they Should have any attachment to a state Which did not afford them subsistence, or to a religion, which the irresistible desire of liberty alone induced them to embrace. By another edit, paganism was prohibited throughout the whole empire, and thus these extensive dominions were inhabited by men, whose attachment to each other, and to the state, was no longer secured by the solemn sanctions of religion: having no priests, no temples no public morals, they had no motives to excite them to repel an enemy who should attack a government with which they were no longer connected. THE inhabitants of the north, therefore, when they sell upon the empire, found every thing ready to favour their invasion. Harassed in Poland and in Germany, by some nations who had migrated from great Tartary, they took a temporary possession of certain provinces already ruined, till they were expelled by succeeding conquerors of aftillmoreferocious disposition thanthemfelves. When there barbarians determined to fettle in the regions they had laid waste, they divided countries which the Romans had formerly united. From that moment, all communication between those states established by accident, necessity or Caprice, was at an end. The swarms of pirates that in-,B 4 rested
j B 0 0 K felted the seas, together with the fierce disposition of the,* .* -. inhabitants of the frontiers. discouraged every conlnecioh,that mutual convenience might render necelily;v. The fubjeAs of each flat. hwsevei finally in extent, were separated from each other I, infljrmi'iuntr:ble obstacles; ns !\'~i ~ the banditti who insisted the oat:, made a journey of,any length, a dangerous expedition. 1h'I nations of Europe, thus plunged a second time by Slavery and de fair, into that slate of insensibility and indolence, which must for many ages have been the State of the human race, derived little advantage from the fertility of their soil; and their industry was exhausted in the employments of a savage life: travis of country at no great distance, were to them of as little importance, as if they had not existed: nor had they any further knowledge of their neighbours, thin as they happened to excite their fears, or their enmity the accounts given by some authors of the wealth and splendour of the seventh century, are as fabulous as all the other miraculous things we read of in the history of those times. Their clothing Was of skin and coarse woollen, the conveniences et lite were not known; build ~t· ~ ~ kings indeed were circled with strength and solidity, but conveyed no idea, either of the atiluctnc, or taste of the age. Neither much money, nor much knowledge of the arts is required to pile up heaps of stone by the hands of slaves. One incontestable proof of the indigence of the people was, that taxes were Iced in lind ; and that even the contributions i which the inferior cicigy paid to their superiors, consisted of provisions. THE superstition thb.t prevailed increased the general darkness. In the eighth, and the beginning of the ninth century Rome, no longer the capital of the masters of the Iu.uverfe, attempted to exercise her authority as before, in deposing or making kings. Deprived of inlha giants and soldiers, by dint of opinions, and religions,tenets
tenets alone, flie aspired to universal monarchy. By her B O o K management princes were excited to take up airs against ,. each other, people against their kings, and kings against their people. All merit consisted in making war. and all virtue in obeying the church. The civility of monarchs was degraded hy the claims of Rome, which inspired a contempt for princes, without exciting the love of liberty. Literature was then comprised in a Jew absurd romances, and sonne melancholy tales, the offspring of cloistered in silence. 'This contributed to entertain that dejection of spirit, and that propensity to the marvelous, so favour able to the interests of superstition. THE face of the globe was again changed by two other nations. A people pouring in from Scandinavia and the Cimbrian Chersonese spread themselves to the north of Europe, which on the Southern lid was harassed by the Arabs. Tile former were disciples of Wodin, the latter of Mohammed ; men who Sad equally diffused the fanaticism of conquest with that of religion. Charlemagne subdued one of there nations, and maintained his ground again lt the other. These inhabitants of the north, ca;lcd Saxons or Normans, we'll indigent, ill armed, and untlidciplilcd, of savage manners, and driven to combat and to death by mircry and superstition. Charlemagne was desirous of compelling them to change that religion which rendered them lo terrible, for another which would dispose tliemn to obedience. lie was obliged to wade through ficus of hood, and the cross was erected on heaps of slain. Ile was less successful against the Arabs, conquerors of Asia, Africa and Spain, aliud could not gain a looting hcyond the l'yrcneain linollo:ilis. The necessity of repulsing the Arabs, but especially the Normans, occasioned the revival of naval Skill in Europe. Charlemagne in 'rince, Alfred the Great in England, and sone cities of Italy, built ships; and there first attempts towards navigation revived for a short tine maritime com-fierce.
0 o o K mere. Charlemagne established great salts, the prlnepal,of which wats t Aix-la-chapelle. ''hli Is the method of trading among people where commerce Its hill its in fancy. The Aral, however, laid the foundation of till minot extensive commerce that hind been known fine the tlilse of Athens and Carthage. It is true thin was not sI much owing to the lights of cultivated reason, and to the pro grefi of a good administration, as to the extent of their power, and the nature of the country they isosceles. Misers of Spain, of Africa, of Anna Minnie, of Persia, and part of India, they introduced reciprocal exchange from one region to another, of the commodities hl different parts of their raft empire. They extended themselves gradually as far as the Moluccas and to Chili, fomietlir's as traders, sometimes is missionaries, frequently as con queries. Soon after this, the Venetians, Genoese, and the Arno 'of Barcelona. went to Alexandria to ably up the merchandise of Africa and India, and disposed of it in Europe. The Arabs. enriched by commerce, and fated with conquest, were no longer the same people who burnt the Alexandrian library. They cultivated the arts and polite literature, and arc diniiiguiilied from other conquering nations by their improvements of the reason and industry of men. To them we owe the sciences of algebra and chemistry, new discoveries in astronomy, new improvements in me. changes, and medicines, unknown to the ancients. But among the fine arts, poetry is the only one that they have cultivated with success. At the same period, the subjects of the Greek empire imitated the manufactures of Alia; and had, through va pious channels, monopolized the riches of India. But the advantages they derived from both there circumstances, could not survive the fate of their empire; which had no thing to oppose to the heroic and daring enthusiasm of tle,Arabs,
Arabs, but tile weak untill innilanly weapons of scholastic I1 O logic, and the controversy armour of monks whole b d such ate ailendalil tht tile emperor used to ask UJd par. don for the time lie employed in affairs of State. Insulting and luill)ptlii were no longer known, and it was latter of choral dispute whether Images might, or ought not, to be worshipped. 'the U(rccks surrounded by the ocean, and in piillellion of Several islands, had yet no maritime forces, They def'eldcd tlciufeltves against the naval power of egypt, and of the Saracens, by wild fire the vain lld precious defence offa degenerate people. Con. Itantlinoplle, not being Il a condition to protect her mari tinie trade at a distance, resigned it to the Genoese, who seized illiol Calffa, which they made a flourishing city. The nobility of Europe acqilced a lillflure of the ntan- Ilcrs of the Greeks and Arabs In their ridiculous expeditions of the crTfilidc. 'hey became acquainted with their arts nd their luxury which were afterwards nl- nmolt iccelliry to their lappfllile. Tile Velletlani laid a more extensive dcluaind for the goods they brought from the eat; aid the Arles Themselves carried fotnm of them into Franche, ngglannd, all even into Oerilmany. Tl'hl l powers had at that Imperio d neither slipping nor manufaailrces they laid restraints upon commerce, and the character of a merchant was held ill contempt. This rueful ct of ime' were never rcfpeCcd among the Romans. They treated their merchants with as much contempt as their player, courtesan bafllt:d, slaves and gladiators. The political frtcm, established throughout Europe by the power and ignorance of the northern nations, mull necessarily have confirmed a prejudice which owed its rise to a barbarous pride. Our ancestors had the absurdity to adopt, as the balls of their government, a principle de firlaive of all society; a contempt for useful labour. The only persons held in any degree of estimation were the lords of manors, or such as had distinguished them-selves
B O 0K shelves in battle. The nobles, it is well known, were eo, ; .many petty sovereigns who abused their own power, unopposed that of the monarch. The barons were fond of parade. :avaricious, whimsical and poor. Sometimes they invited the merchants into their little tatcs, and at others. they extorted money from them. In there barbarous tiles were established the several duties of tolls, of export and import, of allege, of quarters, of escheat and other op pression without number. All the bridges and highways were opened or flopped up at the will of tile prince or his vassals. The first elements of commerce were lo totally unknown that it was customary to fix the price of goods. The merchants were often pillaged, and always ill paid by the knights and barons. Trade was carried on in caravans or companies, which went armed to the places where the fairs were kept. At these marts the merchants omit ted nothing that might engage the favour of tile people. They were generally accompanied by jugglers, musicians and bus soon. As there were then no large towns, and neither public spectacles and meetings, nor the sedentary pleasures of private society were known, the fair time was the season for diversions, which degenerating into dissoluteness, gave a sanction to the invectives and severities of the clergy. The traders were frequently excommunicated. The people held those strangers in abhorrence, who supplied their tyrants-with superfluities, and associated with men, whose manners cere io repugnant to their prejudices and rude austerity of lice. The Jews, who Toon engaged in all the branches of commerce, did not being it into repute. They were then clfildcred ins ;he failne light throughout all Europe, as they arc ;:t isis duly in Plolanidanl Turky. As their fortunes were increasing every day, they were enabled to advance money to merchants and tradcfiicn ; for which they demanded iiterpll equhivaiilet to the rifle they ran in vesting their capital in other hands. The schoolmen were violent in oppcfiJig this nccclt'hy mncafire,,v. which
which their rude prejudices had taught them to condoned. B 0 0 K This theological determination of a point of a civil and political nature, was attended with strange conrfeqiilelccs The magistrates, blinded by ant authority, against even the unjul exercise of which no one dared to appeal, de bounced sentence of confiscations and ignominious penalties against usury, which, in thole dark ages, the laws did not ditigli nglh Irons tile moll moderate interests. It was at this juncture, that to make tlhcilfclvcs acids for endangers and mortifications they were exposed to in carrying on a collmmierce, which was looked ullpon as odious and unlawful, the Jews abandoned tlhelmlllves to the molt excessive rapacity They were held in universal detestation. Persecuted, pillaged, and proscribed, tlicy invented bills of exchange, which fcctired the remains of their fortunes. The clergy declared the exchange usurious, but it was of too great utility to be abolished. One of the effets it produced, was to make the merchants more independant of the prince, who treated them better, apprehending that they might transport their riches into foreign countries. Tnr Italians, who are better known by the name of Lombards, were the first who took advantage of this early change of ideas. 'They formed small communities, and procured the protection of somno States, who, on their ac count, dispensed( with the laws against strangers, which had been made in the barbarous ages. By virtue of this in dulgence, they became agents for all the southern parts of Europe. The inhabitants of the north began likewise to awake from their lethargy: but their recovery was later, and effaced with greater difficulty. Hamburgh and Lubec having attempted to open a trade in the Baltic, were obliged to unite for their mutual defence against the pi rates who invested those latitudes. The success of this little combination, encouraged other towns to enter into a con federal: which, in a short time, was composed of fourscore 'cities,
I 0 0 K cities, and which had either obtained or purchased the privilege of being governed by their own laws, and formed a line of communication from the Baltic to the Rhine. This association, which was the first of modern ones that adopted a regular system of commerce, supplied the Lombards with naval fores and other merchandise of the north, in exchange for the produce of Asia, Italy, and the other southern countries. Flannels was the scene of there happy traditions; but it was not to its situation alone that it owed a distinction so favourable to its interests: this must likewise be attributed to its numerous manufactures of fine cloth, and particularly of tapestry; which las affords a convincing proof how little the arts of drawing and perspective were then known. By there advantageous circumstances, the Low-countries became the richest, the most populous, and the bes cultivated part of Europe. TRE flourishing condition of the inhabitants of Flan ders, the Hanse Towns, and some republics, who owed their prosperity to their freedom, engaged the attention of most of the reigning monarchs, in whose dominions the rights of citizens bad hitherto been confined to the nobility and clergy; and the rest of their fubjeas were laves. But as soon as the cities were declared free, and had large immunities granted them, the merchants and mechanics entered into associations, which rose in estimation as they acquired riches. The sovereigns opposed their power to that of the barons. Thus anarchy and feudal tyranny gradually decreased. The tradesmen became citizens, and the third state was reinstated in its privilege of being admitted to the national assembly. Montesquieu attributes to Christianity the honour of having abolished slavery; but we venture to differ from him. When industry and riches prevailed among the people, the princes began to hold them in some estimation; when the sovereign could avail himself of the riches of the,pcople,
people, to gain advantages over the barons, laws were B O0 K framed to put the people in a better condition. It was to that found policy, which commerce always introduces, and not to the spirit of the Christian religion, that kings were induced to bestow freedom upon the slaves of their vassals, because those saves, when made free, became fubjees. It is true, that Pope Alexander III. declared that Christians were to be exempt from servitude; but this declaration was made merely to please the kings of France and England, who were desirous of humbling their vassals. IN Italy one might perceive the dawning of more prof serous days. The republics of Pisa, Genoa and Florence, were established on the wisest principles: the nations of the Guelph and Gibbelines, which had for so many ages laid waste these delightful countries, were at length ap pleased; trade flourished, and consequently learning would soon be introduced. Venice was in the height of its glory; its navy, which eclipsed that of its neighbours, checked the progress of the maritime power of the Mam melucs, and the Turks; in commerce it was superior to all the European states taken together; its inhabitants were numerous, and its riches immense: the revenues were well managed, and the people were content; the republic borrowed money of the richer subjects, from motives not of necessity, but of policy. The Venetians, were the first people who found out the secret of attach ing rich individuals to the interests of government, by inviting them to vest tome part of their fortune in the public funds. At Venice there were manufactures of silk, gold and silver; it supplied foreigners with ships: their works in gold and silver were the best, and almost the only ones of that time. The inhabitants, were even accused of extravagance in having gold and silver plate, and other utensils of the same materials They were not however without sumptuary laws; but there laws laid no restraint on a kind of luxury' by.,which
B 0 0 K which the sums expended were preserved to the Rtate.,The noblemen united Economy with splendor; the opulence of Venice had revived th" architecture of Athens, and upon the whole there was magnificence as well as elegance in their luxury; the people were ignorant but the nobles were enlightened; the government opposed the attempts of the popes with firmness and prudence: Siam Venetians, psi Christians, said one of their senators, who expressed in these words the sense of the whole senate; at that time even they debased the priesthood, when they had better made it useful to mo reality; which however, was more rigid and pure among the Venetians than among the other people of Italy. Their troops were very different from those miserable Csndstticri, whose name was so much more terrible than their arms. Venice was the feat of 1 politeness; and society was then under less restraint from the spies of go government than it has been since the republic began to be jealous of the power of its neighbours, and to be diffident of its own industry. Ix the fifteenth century, Italy far surpassed the other fates of Europe. Religious zeal, which supplied the place of merit, and occasioned so many trifling ceremonies and cruel oppressions was, however, the means of re leafing Spain from the Arabian yoke; its several pro vices had lately been united by the marriage of Ferdinand and Isabella, and the conquest of Granada; and its power was even equal to that of France. The fine wool of Castile and Leon was manufactured at Segovia, and their cloths were sold all over Europe and even in Asia; the perpetual efforts the Spaniards were obliged to make to preserve their liberty, inspired them with resolution and confidence; their success had elevated their minds, and being ignorant, they abandoned themselves to all the enthusiasm of chivalry and religion. Confined f6 a peninsula and having no immediate commerce with other na-scions,
tions, they entertained that contempt for them, which B O 0 K either among individuals or communities, is usually the L j characteristic of ignorance, They were the only people that maintained a standing body of infantry; this infantry was excellent. As the Spaniards for many ages had been involved in war, their soldiery was indisputably superior to that of the other states of Europe. The Portuguese had much the same cast, but their mo anarchy Was better regulated than that of Castile, and the administration was conducted with more ease after the reduction of the Moors by the conquest of Larva. IN France, Lewis the XI. had just lowered the power of the great vassals, railed that of the magistracy, and made the nobles subject to the laws. The people of France growing less dependant on their lords, must ne necessarily become, in a short time, more industrious, more active and more respectable; but industry and commerce could not flourish on a hidden. Reason muff of course make but a flow progress in the midst of those commo tions which were still excited by the great, and under the reign of a prince devoted to the most abominable super station. The barons were distinguished only by their savage haughtiness; their revenues were scarce sufficient to enter tain in their suite a train of gentlemen without employment, who defended them against the sovereign and the laws. The expences of their table were immoderate; and this savage luxury, of which there are 'still too many remains, afforded no encouragement to any of the useful arts. But neither the manners nor the language of thole times, partook of that decency which distinguishes the superior ranks of citizens, and procures them respect from the rest. Notwithstanding the courtesy enjoined to the knights, coarse and rough manners sill prevailed among the great, the nation had then the same character inconsistence it has since preserved; and which a nation 'will ever have, whose morals and customs are not conformable to the VOL. I. C laws,
B 0 0 K laws. The prince's councils issued innumerable, and fre. , . quietly contradictory edicts, but the prince readily dispensed with the observance of them. By this easy disposition of the sovereign, the inconveniences which would have arisen from a multitude of laws inconsiderately made by the French ministry, have been happily pre vented. ENGLAND, Ifs opulent, and less industrious than France, was composed of insolent barons, despotic bishops, and a people who were tired of their yoke; a certain restless disposition prevailed in the nation, which must necessarily sooner or later introduce liberty. This character owed its rise to the absurd tyranny of William the Conqueror, and the cruel temper of several of his successors. The intolerable abuse of power had made the England ex extremely jealous of their sovereigns; the very name of king carried with it the idea of terror; and there senti ments transmitted from father to son, afterwards laid the foundations of that form of government they now have the happiness to enjoy. The long contention between the houses of York and Lancaster, while it raised a mar tial spirit and an impatience of avery, involved the na tion, at the same time, in poverty and confusion. The *' English wool was at that time manufactured in Slanders,,and was exported as well as its lead and tin, in vessels be longing to the Hanse Towns. The principles of navigation of internal policy, jurisprudence, luxury, and the fine arts were entirely unknown in England; at the fan time that it was overburthened with a multitude of riel convents and hospitals. The distressed convents wen the usual resort of the nobles, as the hospitals were o the common people; idleness and barbarous manner were encouraged by these superstitious institutions. GERMANY, which had long been harassed by quarrel between the emperors and the popes, and by intestine wars hadst this time begun to enjoy a state of tranquility ; orde,)Ia
had taken place of anarchy, and the inhabitants of this B 0 0 K extensive country, who, though strangers to wealth and v commerce were versed in the arts of war and agriculture, had nothing to fear from their neighbours, neither could they he formidable to them. The feudal system, so fatal to mankind in other countries, here assumed a milder aflpet; the princes presiding over this vast extent of ter ritory, generally speaking, governed their respective flats with a good deal of moderation; they seldom abused their authority, and if the peaceable possession of their estates could compensate the want of liberty, the Germans were happy; commerce and industry were entirely confined to the free cities, and to the towns included in the Hanseatic league; the mines of Hanover and Saxony were not yet discovered; silver was scarce; the farmer sold a few horses to strangers, nor had the princes yet introduced the traffic of the human species; the expences of the table, and a variety of equipages were the only ar titles of luxury; the nobles and the clergy intoxicated themselves, without disturbing the government; it was with some difficulty that the gentry were dissuaded from amufuig themselves with robbing on the highways; their manners were savage. and during the two succeeding centuries the German troops were more distinguished by their cruelties than by their discipline and bravery. THE northern countries had made less progress than Germany. Oppressed by the nobles and priests, the inhabitants no longer retained that enthusiastic love of glory with which the religion of Wodin had formerly inspired them: nor were they yet acquainted with those wise institutions which some of them have since borrowed from better forms of government. Their power was so inconsiderable that a single Hanse town was capable of intimidating the three potentates of the north. They resumed a national character after the reformation, and under the auspices of Frederic and Gustavus Vafa.,C 2 THE
B 0 L K THE Turks were ftralgers'to the science of government,. .~ they had no knowledge of the arts, nor taste for com-fierce: but the Janissaries were the best troops in the world. These attendants of a despot whom they kept in awe, at the same time that they insured respect to him whom they placed upon tile throne, or strangled at pleasure, had at that time tome great men for their leaders. They subverted the empire of the Greeks, who were infatuated 'with theology, and Typified by 1ifperlition. Some of the inhabitants of this mild climate, who cultivated litera ture and the arts, abandoned their country after it was subdued, and took refuge in Italy; whither they were followed by artists and trader;. Tranquillity, peace, prosperity. a desire of enrolling, and the want of new pleasures, which is the estate of good governments, fa poured the revival of letters in the country of the ancient Romans; and it was from the (reeks that the Italians derived a better knowledge of good model, and a taste for antiquity. The art of printing was invented; and though for a long time the discovery was of little use while the people continued in a itlte of poverty and indo hence, yet when commerce and the arts had made some progress. it made books become common. A love of study prevailed, and the ancients were universally ad mired : but they had no rivals except in Italy. Rome, which in ev-very century las aloft always affirmed a character the best adapted to the present moment, seemed disposed no longer to encourage that ignorance which had so long been subservient to her interests. She proceed polite literature, and furl of the arts as depended more on imagination than reason. The molt ignorant priest is well aware, that representations sofa terrible divi city, mortification, self-denial, austerity, melancholy and terror, are so many expedients to gain an ascendant over the minds of men, by engaging them deeply in religious matters. But there are times when these expedients have,but
but little success. Men, who have grown rich in peaceful B 0 0 K fates, are fond of enjoying themselves; they dislike the dull road of life, and are eager in their purlilit of plea fines. When fairs began to be established, with enter tangents of sports, dancing, and other recreations, the clergy, who observed, that the love of festivity made the people less religions, prohibited there spots, and excommunicated those who bore a part in them. But where they found that no regard l as paid to their renllfres, they changed their plan, ;ant determine! to take the amusements into their own hn.lel. 1 his sas the tTigitn sacred comedy. The death of St. Cnllherie, acted by the monks of St. Dennis, rirnllcil the fitcris of the players. Musc was introduced inlt- the ie Ch'thIe; :ld eCren farre were exhibited there. The ft'tiva!s called /l I''r d,-' .four & de L'/Ane, & des iiinil't.s, Proved na clltrrtnainirg to the people as the farces tlhnt were afrled in ths, public plrqcc-. It ofltel h;llappelned, That a;traned lby tile mere love of alltcifnclnt, they left thee Egyptian dnlres tn join in the procession for the fcntlal of St. Join. As Italy improved in policies, their plicfitnes became more re fined ; and the decency tlihat ag introduced' into their common leaps and public entertainments, afforded left pretence for the cenfilrc of the brilliant procured them a toleration. The merit of being able to read had been long confined to this calc of men ; but when it be came a Snore general acriopllilhment, they could no longer avail themselves of this distinction: and finding that learning was the road to fame, they wile ambitious of Shining in literary pursuits. Tie popes, who enjoyed an opulent and peaceful Sovereignty ill the voluptuous region of Italy, laid aside their austerity. Their court became an agreeable one. The enucouragmclicilt of literature was considered as a new expedient to ellablifli their authority over the minds of men. Genius ws 'clcrilnid; ; aid marks of honour were conferred u;onlt great artilis.,C 3 R.lil.iel
B O O K Raphael died but a short time before le was to have been I, I. . created a cardinal; and Petrarch had the honours of triumph. As little conformable as this good taste, there fine aris, and new amusements, may appear to the Spirit of the gospel, they were evidently calculated to promote the interest of the papal throne. The belles lettres serve to embellish the fir-cure of the church; but philosophy demolishes it. Thus, while the church of Rome favoured polite literature, and the fine arts, it discountenanced the Severer sciences. The poets were crowned with laurel; but the philosophers were persecuted. Galileo from his prison might have beheld Tasso carried in triumph to the capitol, if those men of great genius had been contemporaries. IT was high time that philosophy and learning should lend their-support to morality and reason. The church of Rome had taken all imaginable pains to subvert those principles of justice which nature had implanted in all mankind. The single maxim that the pope had a right to the sovereignty of all empires, sapped the foundation of all society and public virtue; this maxim, however, had for a long time prevailed, together with that horrid doctrine, which not only permitted but enjoined hatred and persecution towards all, whole religious opinions were not agreeable to those of the Romish church. Indulgences a species of expiation which might be purchased for all crimes, or if any thing can be still more monstrous, for crimes to be committed in future; dispensations for breaking faith with the enemies of the pontiff, though they were of the same religion; that article of belief which teaches, that the merit of the juif may be transferred to the wicked; vices of all kinds exemplified in the lives of the popes, and other religious persons, who ought toe models to the people; above all, tht greater re proarh to humanity, the inquisition : all there horrid enormities made Europe appear to be rather the haunt of tygdrs,antl
wild serpents, that a vas country inhabited or cultivated B ° 0 K by men. Suc was the fitnlntion of Europe, when the Portuguese monarch, at tie head of an active, generous and Intelligent people, surrounded by neighbours who still preyed upon each other, formed the plan of extending their dominion by sea and land. Joan I. had several foils, who, being ambitious of TI sirset- signalizing themselves, undertook, first of all, some expects ,r' ,,- editions to Barbary. Henry, whose genius was superior gr'C; tlbir to the rest, took it into his head to make discoveries in lc nldles. th west. This young prince availed himself of the little knowledge of astronomy which was preserved among the Arabs. At Sages, a city of Larva, he established an observatory, and rade it the place of education for all the nobility who collapsed his train: the had a con miserable hare in the invention of tire Astrolabe, and was the first who was fencible of tie advantages that might be drawn from the compass, which, though already known in Europe, had never hceie applied to the pur pores of navigation. THE pilots, who sullied under his direolln, discovered Madeira in the year 1418, 'I:wo years after :his, one of his lips took postillion of the Canaries; he doubled tile Cape of Sierra-leona, and the river i'ara led him into the interior parts of Africa as far as Congo. He made an early Conquest of those count ics, and established ai advantageous cominercc, The inconsiderable nations who in habited those parts, being separated from each other by impalpable desarts, were strangers both to the value of their riches, and the art otf defending themselves. These voyages railed great expefl:tiois: thre revenues, that light in future arise from the coif of Guinea, were farmed. All instance of avidity so premature, shows, that princes, who undertook these discoveries, were more so vicious to increase their finances, than to promote the commerce of their fibjects.,C 4 IN
B 0 0 IN the reign of John the Second, an intelligent prince who first declared Lilbon a free port, and made a new application of astronomy to navigations some of his sub jess, being sent out upon an expedition, doubled the Cape at the extremity of Africa. This Cape was then called the Cape of Storms; but the prince, who foresaw that it would open a passage to the Indies, gave it the name of the Cape of Good Hope. EMANUEL pursued the plan chalked out by his predecessors In 1497 he equipped a fleet confiding of four ships, and gave the command of it to vasco de Gama, This admiral, having weathered several storms in his cruise along the eastern coasts of Africa. and attempted seas before unknown, landed at length in Hindostan, after a voyage of thirteen months. A geogrn- AsIA, of which Hindostan is one of the richest parts, is a riot of vast continent, lying, according to the observations of the Ash Ruffians, the truth of which has been justly doubted between the 43d and the zo7th degree of longitude. It extends, between the two poles, from the wth degree of northern, to the loth degree of southern latitude. That part of this large continent which is situated in the temperate zone, between the j3th and the both degree of latitude, appears to be higher than the rest: it is bordered both towards the north and south by two vast chains of mountains, which run almost from the western extremity of Asia Minor and the coasts of the Black Sea, to the ocean that wastes the coasts of China and Tartary towards the east. These two chains are united by other intermediate chains, in a direction from south to north; they branch out both towards the northern, the In tian, and eastern oceans, and appear like so many bul works raised between the beds of the large rivers which roll through those immense regions. SUCH is the great basis which nature has railed to sup port the fabric of Asia. In the inland parts of this vast country, the earth, parched by the heat of the fun, be-,~~~~~~2 corner
comes so light, that it is carried about by the winds; B ° 0 K there is not the least appearance either of stone or marble; 'no petrified Shells, or other fossils, are to be found; the beds of minerals lie upon the surface. All these phenomena joined to the observations made with the barometer, are proofs of the great elevation of the central part of Asia, to which the moderns have given the name of the lesser Bucharia. FROM there heights, which form a kind of girdle, fur rounding this immense and unfruitful region, several large streams arise, that run in different channels. The fragments of barren earth, which are perpetually carried down by these rivers toward the several extremities of Asia, form so many barriers against the sea, and promise a stability and duration to this continent, superior to that of any other. Perhaps ;t will be its fate to see the rest re repeatedly buried under the waters, before it suffers any encroachment itself. THE Caspian sea alone has preserved its station within the limits of this vast that of land, which has been emerging from the deep through a series of ages. It may doubtless be considered as the reservoir of those large rivers that fall into it; but may likewise have some small communication, by subterraneous passages, with the ocean and the Mediterranean, if it be true, as it appears to be from observations made with the barometer at Astrachan, that its surface is below the level of both those seas. THE frozen ocean, which washes the norther. coasts of Siberia, renders them inaccessible, if we may believe the accounts given by the Ruffians. They tells us that it is in vain to expect to find a new passage by this lea from Europe to America; and that the ice will always prevent the doubling of the Cape of Schalaginfkoi, which separates the old from the new world, though this passage has once been crossed. But the Ruffians are probably either not sufficiently sincere, or sufficiently informed, to deserve in-tire
B 0 0 K tire credit; and either do not know all that they tell us,,A ; or do not tell us all that they know the Indian ocean, which relics towards tile out of Asia, is divided from the great south ea by n chain )f mountains, which begins at the island of Madagascar, and extending under water as far as Sumatra, ars is evident from the shallows and rocks which are scattered in tlofr parts, unites again at Van Divines Land andrew Guinea. M. Burlche, a geographer, who has examined the earth as a natural philosopher, and has laid down a chart of the world according to ills hypoluthcs, is of opinion, that the sea between this long chain ofillalnd and the rouithelm Coasts of Aria, should be divided into three great barons.; the limits of which fecit to have been circumscribed or drawn by the hand of nature.,TAtE first, which lies towards the weft, between Ara. bia and Persia, is bounded towards the south by that chain of islands, which extends from Cape Comorin and the Saliva Islands to Madagascar. This hafron, which runs into the land, is incessantly enlarging the Gulph of Persia and the Red Sea. The second of there barons forms the Gulph of Bengal. The third includes the great Archipelago, which contains the Sl;nda, the Moluccas, and the Philippine Islands. This joins Asia to the southern continent, and serves as a boundary to the Pacific Ocean. Between this sea and thereat Archipelago a kind of new baron is formed by a ch.l;l of mountains under water towards the east, which extends from the Ladrone to the Japan Islands. W' hen we have Cpafl1d these celebrated islands, we come to a chain of islands called Buries, which touch the southern point of tile Peninsula of Kamtfchatka; and form a fifth baTon into which the river Amur empties itself; hut as its entrance is obstructed hy the Bamboos, which grow there it. gi.at alliance, it is imagined that this sea has very little delph.,'f.t l[ $
Tnrist geographical details, far from being foreign to nl 0 0 K pur purpose, are in a manner necessary to dartle and engage our attention to the rihelct and lintel continent t uon the globe. We will begin with In dollflil. THovUH by the general name of tile Mean Indies is Nai'rillh - commonly understood that immense trap. of land which ,i,,ri.,. ries beyond the Arabian fen, and tile Persian empire yet by Hindostan is properly meant ia country Stingy bc tween two celebrated rivers, the Indus and the iaigcs, lvhich fall into tile Indian ocean, at the distance of Sour hundred leagues from each other. A ridge of high contains runs across this long than from north to south, and dividing it into two equal parts, extends as farl as Cape Comorin, where it frills tie boundary between the coasts of Malabar and Coromandel. IT is a remarkable circimltilacc, and pcrlilaps the only pnc of tie kind, that this ridge felix to be ia barrier, created by nature, to separate one season from another. The mere breadth of thick mountains divides fililnier from winter ; that is to say, the season of fire weather Sarti, ti rainy; for it is well known there is no winter between ths tropics; all that is mcannt by winter in the Indies is Illa time of the year when the clouds, which tile fire attends from the sea, are driven violently by while wills against the mountains, where they break andll dissolve in rain, accompanied with frequent storms. FIromi hence torrents are formed, which rush from the hills, swell thei rivers, glad overflow the vallies; dark vapours, that obscure the day, spread a thick and impenetrable gloom over cl e deluged country : but, like llhe :abyss which brooded over ths prin cipher of things before the creation, this cloudy season promotes fertility: at this time the plant; and flowers appear ill fail lilcriglhl and beauty, and the fruits in ge neral comte to ianliirity. 'Ilrr. flnmer may naturally be expelled to preserve its lfirlal tempcrliratlrc blcttcr iHanli the ililct, in a climate fv immediately slider til iifliuciice of the in i: the sky,,williout
B 0 0 K without a cloud to intercept its rays, frees to be all wildfire; but the sea breezes which spring up in the day time, and the land-breezes that blow during the night, alternate!' alleviate the heat of the at moliere; yet the calms, that now and then intervene, fliflc thcli refreshing gales, and the inhabitants are reduced to differ the inconveniences of excessive drought. THE es'ea of the two different fearfims is (till more remarkably felt in the two Indian oceans, where they are distinguished by the name of the dry and rainy mon sons. While the f1a that wastes the coasts of Malabar is agitated by storms, which the returning fun introduces with the spring, the slightest vessels fail along the coast of Coromandel upon a fiiinoth surface, and require neither (kill nor precaution in their pilots; but in the au turn, which, in its turn, changes the face of the che ments, the western craft enjoys a perfect calm, while the eastern Indian ocean is tolled by tempests; each experiencing as it were, the alternatives of peace and war. An inhabitant of the island of Ceylon, who contemplates tie equatorial region at the two equinoxes, fees alter lately, on the right hand, the waves vexed with storms, nd. on the left, lulled into tranquility ; as if the Author of Nature, who holds the scales of calamities and blessings perpetually in his hands, had instantly turned the beam in equilibrium, from one side to the other. It is not ilnprobabic that the doftiinle of the iMalliciccs, concerning the two principles, might take it.; rile in India, where the two empiric ei goo ad evil ar; divided only by a par itiion of miiiu;iaiis; fine pi in .id ple.lftre fecit to be as much the origin ol the dliftl-feli lI'orn of w6r-llii), as tht are of the idtais of mans kind. T'liie i is si infinite a ca;incc;tion I'seltwccn trivial and ioi.i principles, that all f'yl'tms of iiiilo'in l.c to tho hlapipincts of the human species h:.v- t.akcn lb:ir color col from tile nature of t'hc c:.,alte: sac .rlinglv it i tbs:rv.hlie, that the In d;.:;s, vihofc hin. rinatioin, rcci-c the deepest imprcelfio,,of
of nature from the more forcible operation of good and B O O K evil, and the view they constantly have of the discord of the elements, are placed in a situation moll fertile in re solutions. events and transactions of every kind. HeNcE it is, that the celebrated countries of India, have long engaged the attention of the philosopher, and the historian, whose conjectures have assigned to their earliest inhabitants an xra of the molt extraordinary anti quite. To say the trull, whether iwe conduit historical records, or consider the position of Hindostan upon the globe, taking for granted that the ocean has a ,progressive motion from East to Weft, we must allow that this part of the earth was the first that was inhabited. We may trace the origin of molt of the sciences in the history of that country. Even before the age of Pythagoras, the Greeks travelled to India for instruction ; the trade carried on by them with tile oldest commercial nations, in exchange for their cloth, is a proof of their great progress in the arts of industry. UPON the whole, it should seem reasonable to con elude, that a climate the belt adapted to tie human species would be peopled tile earliest; and that the first men would fix their abode in a delicious climate, pure air, and a soil too fertile to require much cultivation. If the human race could be filppofcd to multiply and ex tend themselves in those horrid regions, where they must maintain a perpetual struggle with nature; if they could inhabit burning sands and impracticable morasses, and regions of perpetual ice; or frequent desarts and forests, where they must defend themselves against the violence of the elements, and the attacks of wild beasts; how easily might they not form themselves into societies in these de lightful countries, where mankind, exempt from necessity, has nothing to pursue but pleasure; where enjoying with out labour or anxiety, the choicest productions, and tile moll glorious prolpcc of the great scene of nature, they,might
b 0.0 K might justly assume the distinguishing title of Lords of thy,a Creation. These delightful scenes presented themfelveg,on the banks of the Ganges, and in the plains of Hindostan. The air is perfumed with the most delicious fruits, and affords a wholesome and refreshing nourishment; the trees form a (hade impenetrable to the rays of the fun; while the living animals that are dispersed over the globe, cannot subsist in other parts without devouring each other, they share in India, in common with their master, the sweets of plenty and security. Even at this day, when we may think that the earth must have been exhausted by the pro cushions of so many ages, and their consumption in foreign countries, Hindostan, if we except a few sandy and barren districts, is still the molt fruitful country in the world. Rclig5in, THE system of morals in this country is no less extract. crKTmn:,s dinar) than the system of nature. When we fix our eyes and c U;,rrns of Indian. on this vast region, where nature hath exerted her ut-most efforts for the happiness of man, we cannot but re gret that man hath done all in his power to oppose her. The rage of conquest, and what is no less destructive an evil, the greediness of traders have, in their turns, ravaged and oppressed the finest country on the face of the globe. NOTWITHSTANDING the numbers of savage banditti, and other strangers, hnlom war or desire of gain has in cited to the Indies, it is easy to distinguish the antient in habitants. There is not, however, so much difference in the cast of complexion and outward appearance of these people, as in the particularities of their character; op pressed as they have been with the yoke of tyranny, or rather of the wildest anarchy, they have not adopted either the manners, the laws, or the religion of their masters. Their continual experience of all the horrors of war, all the excesses and vices of which human nature is capable, has not tainted their character. Nothing has ever been able to reconcile the tender, humane and timorous
amorous Indian to scenes of blood, or to animate him B 0 Oi with the courage and spirit of rebellion. His vices arise solely from weakness. THE judicious traveller, who traversing the plains of Egypt, fees trunks of columns, mutilated statues, broken entablatures, and immense pyramids that have escaped the ravages of war and time, dispersed about the country, is lost in admiration at the view of the ruins of a nation which no longer exists. He cannot now find out the situation of Thebes, that city so celebrated in antiquity for its hundred gates ; but the venerable remains of its temples and of its tombs, give him a higher idea of its magnificence than the descriptions of Herodotus and Diodorus hiculus. WHEN we attentively examine the accounts given by travellers of the manners of tie natives of India, we seem to wander among heaps of ruins, the remains of an im mense fabric. The original form is lost, but enough is preserved to convince us of the magnificence and regula city of the plans. Amidst a variety of absurd superstitions, puerile and extravagant customs, strange ceremonies and prejudices, we may discover the traces of sublime morality, deep philosophy, and refined policy; but when we attempt to trace the religious and civil institutions to their source, we find that they are lost in the maze of antiquity. By the moss antient traditions, the Indians appear to have been the first who received the rudiments of science, and the polis of civilization. But their legislative system has never been discovered; and the antients themselves seem only to have retained some fragments of it. In India are found the traces of a multitude of superstitious observances, arts, sports, errors and truths of all kinds, which have been adopted by almost all nations. TUE Indians themselves are ignorant of the origin of their religion and policy: they have to this day preserved customs which must certainly have owed their rifeto a,4 system
B 0 0 K system that no longer exists: the spirit of their political. constitution is los, and every branch of it either chancellor corrupted. Their religion, which was of the allegorical and moral kind, hath degenerated into a heap of extravagant and obscene superstitions, owing to their having realized those fictions which were intended merely as so many symbols and emblems. Were it possible to obtain a fight of their sacred books, the only remains there are of the Indian antiquities, we might, in some measure, be enabled to remove the veil that envelopes these numerous mysteries; but we have little reason to hope that we Ihall ever be intruded with such a communication. THo emperor Mahmoud Akebar took it into his head to make himself acquainted with the principles of all the religious feet throughout his extensive provinces. Having discarded the superstitious notions with which he had been prepossessed by his education in the Mohammedan religion, he resolved to judge for himself. It was easy for him to be informed of the nature of those systems, that are formed upon the plan of making jt-ofelltes; but he found Himself disappointed in his design, when he came to treat with the Indians, who will not admit any person wha-i ever to the participation of their mysteries. NEITHER the authority nor promises of Akebar could prevail with the Bramins to disclose the tenets of their religion; he was therefore obliged to have recourse to artifice. The Stratagem he made use of was, to cause an infant, of the name of Fcizi, to be committed to tie care of these priests, as a poor orphan of the sacerdotal line, who alone could be initiated into the sacred rites of their theology. Feizi, having received the proper instructions for the part he was to aa, was conveyed privately to Benares, the feat of knowledge in Hindostan; he was received into the house of a learned Brain, who educated him with the same care as if he had been his son. After,the
the youth had splent ten years i'll udy, Akebar was de B o 0 K fibrous of recalling him; but he was lfrhck with the charms ti,. of the daughter of his preceptor. THe women of the sacerdotal tribe are looked upon as the greatest beauties in Hindostan. The old Brain laid no restraint on the growing passion of the two lovers; he was fond of Feizi, who had gained his affection by his address and docility, and offered him his daughter in marriage. The young man, divided between love and gratitude, resolved to conceal the fraud no longer; and, falling at the feet of tie Brain, discovered the imposture and asked pardon for his offence. T'H priest, without reproaching him In the least; seized a poignard which hung at his girdle; and was going to plunge it in his breast, if Feizi had not prevented him by taking hold of his arm. The young man used every means to pacify him, and declared himself ready to do any thing to expiate his treachery. The Brain, burst ing into tears, promised to pardon him on condition that he should swear never to translate the Brdasi or sacred volumes, or disclose to any person whatever the symbol *Js the Brain creed. Feizi readily promised all that the liramidt required: how far he kept his word is not known ; but the sacred books of the Indians hare never been translated by him, or any one else, to this day. As the Bramins are the only persons who understand the language of the sacred book; their comments on the text are the same as those which have ever been made on religious books, all the maxims which fancy, interest, pillion or false zeal can suggest, are to be found in there volumes, These exclusive pretensions of the interpreters of religion have given them that unbounded influence over the people, which impostors and fanatics will not fail to exert over men who have not the courage to con full either their own reason, or their own feelings, VoL. f. D From
B 0 0 K FROM the Indus to the Ganges, the Fedam is universally received as the book that contains the principles of religion; but the generality differ on several points relative to faith and praise; That spirit of debate and re fitetnent, which for so many ages has infected the phi sophy of our schools, has made fill farther progress among the Bramins, and caused more absurdities iln their doctrines, than it has introduced into ours, by a mixture of Platonism, which is perhaps itself derived from the doctrines of the Bramins. TnRouoGHouT all Indian, the laws of government, customs and manners make a part of religion; being all derived from Brama, a being far superior in dignity to the human race, the interpreter of the divinity, the author of the sacred books, and the great lawgiver of India. Steam is some reason to believe that Brama was possessed of the sovereign authority; as his religious institutions were evidently designed to inspire the people with a profound reverence and great love for their country, and are particularly levelled against the vices incident to the climate. Few religions seem to have been so well adapted to the countries for which they were calculated.,IHE Indians entertain the same religious veneration for him, as they do sot the three capital rivers of Hindostan the Indus, the Christina, and the Ganges. It was he who rendered sacred the animal that is molt serviceable in the cultivation of land, as well as the cow, whose milk is so wholesome a nourishment in hot countries. 'to him they ascribe the division of the people into tribes or cafes, distinguished from each other by their political and religious principles. This institution is antecedent to all traditions and known records, and may be con Soldered as the most striking proof of the great antiquity of the Indians. Nothing appears more contrary to the natural progress of social connections, than this distribution
tion of the members of the Tame community into distil e B o K classes. Such an idea could only be the result of a studied - . plan of legislation, which pre-supposes a great proficiency in civilization and knowledge. Another circumstance still hire extraordinary is, that this distinction should con tinge so many ages, after the leading idea and connecting tie was forgotten; and affords us a remarkable example of tile strength of national prejudices, when falsified by religious ideas. T'H nations is divided ito four chaises, the Brains, the soldiery, husbandmen and mechanics: these classes have their subdivisions. There are several orders of Bra inns: those who mix in society are, for the molt part, very corrupt in their morals; they believe that the water of the Ganges will wash away all their crimes; and as they are not iubjea to any civil jurisdiction, live without either restraint or virtue, excepting that character of com passion and charity which is so commonly found in the mild climate of India, TnE others who live abliraaed from the world, are either weak minded men or enthusiasts, and abandon themselves to laziness, superstitious, and the dream of metaphysics. We find in their disputes the very same ideas that occur in the writings of our molt celebrated metaphysicians, such as, substance, accident, priority, posteriorly, immutability, indivisibility, the vital and sensitive foul; but with this difference, that whereas in India these fine discoveries are very antient, it is but a very Short time once father Lombard, Thomas Aquinas, Leib nit,. and Malebranche astonished all Europe with their dexterity in raising their visionary systems. As this ab traced manner of reasoning was derived to us from the Greek philosophers, whose refinement we have gone far beyond, it is not improbable that the Greeks themselves might have borrowed this ridiculous knowledge from the Indians; unless we rather chute to suppose, that as the,D 3 principles
B O o K principles of metaphysics lie open to the capacities sall nations, the indolence of the Bramins may have pro duce the same effect in India, as that of our monks has done in Europe ; notwithstanding the inhabitants of one country had never communicated their doctrines to those of the other such are the defendants of the ancient Brahmans, whom antiquity never speaks of but with admiration; because the affection of austerity and mystery, and the privilege of declaring the will of heaven have imposed upon the vulgar in all ages. The Greeks ascribe tht doctrine of the immortality of the foul, to certain notions concerning the nature of the Supreme Being, and future rewards and punishments. To this species of knowledge which is the more flatter ing to the curiosity of man in proportion as it transcends his weak capacity, the Brahmans added an infinite number of religious observances, which were adopted by Pythagoras in his school; such as falling, prayer, silence, and contemplation; virtues of the imagination, which have a more powerful effect upon the vulgar than those of a useful and benevolent tendency. The Brahmans were looked upon as the friends of the gods, because they affected to pay them so much regard; and as the protectors of mankind, because they paid them no regard at all. No bounds were therefore set to the refpef and gratitude that were Shown them; princes themselves did not scruple to consult these recluses upon any critical conjuncture, from a supposition, no doubt, that they were inspired, since it was impossible to imagine that they had the advantages of experience. After all, we can hardly deny that there might be among them some men of real virtue, whose minds relished the pure and ingenuous delights of study and science'; and who, by nobly railing their thoughts to the contemplation of the first Being, had but the stronger reason to render themselves
selves worthy of his care, and none to justify them in B 0 0 K deceiving, and tyrannizing over their fellow-creatures. THE military class consists of the Rajas on the coast of Coromandel, and the Airs on the coast of Malabar. There are likewise whole nations, the Canal and the Marattas for instance, who assume the profession, either because they are the descendants of some tribes originally devoted to arms, or because times and circumstances have introduced a change in their primitive institutions. THE third class consists entirely of husbandmen, and there are few countries where this set of men have a bet ter title to the gratitude of their fellow-subjects; they are laborious and industrious, perfectly acquainted with the art of distributing their rivulets, and of making the burning soil they inhabit as fertile as possible, They are in India what they would be every where else, if not cor, rapt or oppressed by government, the most honest and virtuous of men. This class, which was formerly much respected, was free from tyranny, and the ravages of war never were the husbandmen obliged to bear arms; their lands and their labours were held equally sacred; they ploughed their fields within view of contending armies, .who suffered them to pursue their peaceful toil without molestation; their corn was never set on fire, nor their trees cut down; religion too, that all-powerful principle, lent her assistance to reason, which, though it inculcates indeed, the propriety of protecting useful occupations. has not of itself sufficient influence to enforce the cxecu. tion of its own laws. Tas tribe of mechanics was branched out into as many subdivisions as there are trades; no one was al lowed to relinquish the profession of his parents; for which reason industry and vassalage have ever gone hand in hand, and carried the arts to as high perfection as they can possibly attain without the alliance of tastes D 3 j anti
B O0 K and imagination, which seldom unfold themselves buts under the kind influences of emulation and liberty besides these tribes, there is a fifth, which is the out tall of all the rest; the members of it are employed in the meanest offices of society; they bury the dead, carry away dirt, and live upon the flesh of animals that die natural deaths; they are held in such abhorrence that if any of their society dares to touch any person belong ing to the other classes, he has a right to kill him on the spot; they are called Parias. IN Malabar there is another race of men, called Policies, who sussex still greater injuries and hardships; they inhabit the forests; where they are not permitted to build huts, but are obliged to make a kind of nest upon the trees; when they are pressed with hunger, they howl like wild beasts to excite the companion of the passengers. The most charitable among the Indians deposit fume rice er other food at the foot of a tree, and retire with all possible haRe to give the famished wretch an opportunity of taking it without meeting with his benefactor, who would think himself polluted by coming near him. THE Europeans, by living with these unhappy people upon terms of common humanity, at length made them selves almost equally the object of detestation among the Indians. This detestation prevails even to this day in the inland parts of the country, where the want of intercourse keeps alive those rooted prejudices, which wear off gradually near the sea-coasts, where the interests and mutual wants of commerce unite men with each other, and consequently introducejufter notions of human nature. ALL there classes are for ever separated from each other by unsurmountable barriers; they are not allowed to in intermarry, live, or eat together. Whoever transgresses this rule, is banished as a disgrace to his tribe.,BUT
BUT when they go in pilgrimage to the temple Of B o0 K Jagrenat, or the Supreme Being, the case is quite altered, At these seasons the Bramins, the Raja or Nair, the hug bondman and mechanic carry their offerings, and eat and drink promiscuously; they are there admonished that the distinctions of birth are of human institution, and that all men are brethren and children of the same God. Those religious sentiments, which have given a sanction to this subordination of ranks among the Indians, have not had sufficient influence to prevent them entirely from aspiring to those marks of ditinclioht which are ap appropriated to the superior classes. That spirit of ambition so natural to mankind, has Sometimes exerted itself, and singular expedients have been tried by men jealous of superiority to share with tile Bramins the veneration of the multitude; this has given rise to a race of monks known in India by the name of Fakirs. MEn of all the tribes or cases are permitted to follow this class of life; nothing more is required than to emu late the Bramins in abstracted contemplation and indo hence; but at the same time they are obliged to surpass them in excessive austerities, which strike the mildest people in the world with religions horror. The appear ance of these fanatics exceeds imagination ; some of them wallow in the dirt, others accustom themselves to painful poured, extending their arms over their head till they are unable to recover their natural position; and a third fort continue standing seven or eight days together, which occasions prodigious swellings in their legs; they all of them enter into an engagement never to wash their bo dies, or comb their hair; and to oppose and disgrace nature, with a view of recommending themselves to Its author. The refpea paid them by the people is their only recompense for these sacrifices, which infinitely ex need all the mortifications practised by the European rponks; if those may be called mortifications, which are,D 4 nothing
B 0 0 K nothing r .ore than singular ceremonies praised at an , , - nearly age, when to get rid of scruples concerning the gratification of natural and forbidden passions, the youthful imagination ardently embraces any system of life, how ever extravagant, provided it has received the public sanction and is calculated to administer to their pleasures. THOUGH in the sacred books of the Indians we do not meet with those instances of the marvellous, which some times strike so forcibly in the Greek theology, their my theology is as irregular as that of almost any other people. We do not find, in particular, any connection between their religious principles and the several classes that form the bails of their government. The fhaftah, which is looked upon by rome as a commentary on the veda, and by others as an original work, an extract of which, lately published in England, has thrown some light upon this subjea. This book teaches that the eternal being absorbed in the contemplation of his own offence, formed the resolution of creating beings, who might pare take of his glory. He spoke, and angels rose into. existence I they fang in concert the praises of their creator, and har mony reigned in the celestial region, when two of there spirits having revolted, drew a legion after them. Thq Supreme Being drove them into a place of torment, from whence they were released at the intercession of the faith ful angels, upon conditions, which at once inspired them with joy and terror. The rebels were sentenced, under die went forms, to undergo punishments in the low eft of the fifteen planets, in proportion to the enormity of their first offence; accordingly each angel underwent eighty seven transmigrations upon earth, before he ani mated the body of a cow, which holds the first rank among the animal tribes. These different transmigrations are considered as so many stages of expiation, preparatory to a fate of probation, which commences as soon as the angel transmigrates from the body of the cow into a hb4,man
man body; in this situation the creator enlarges his in B 0O K intellectual faculties, and constitutes him a free agent; and his good or bad conduct hastens or retards the season of his pardon. The good are at their death re-united to the Supreme Being, and the wicked begin anew the sra of their expiation. HENCe it appears, that, according to this tradition of the fhaftah, the metempsychosis is an actual punishment, and that the fouls that animate the generality of the brute creation, are nothing more than wicked spirits. This ex planation is certainly not universally adopted in India. It was probably invented by some devotee of a melancholy and rigid cast; as the doctrine of the transmigration of fouls seems originally to have been Founded rather on hope than fear. IN sad, it is natural to suppose that it was only adopted at sirs as an idea that flattered and soothed humanity, and would easily be embraced in a country where mankind, living under the influence of a delicious climate, and a misgovernment, began to be sensible of the Shortness of life. A system which extended life beyond its natural limits could not fail to be well received. It is a consolation to an old man, who fees himfelfdeferted by all that is dear to him, to imagine that his enjoyments will still remain, and that his dissolution only opens a passage to another scene of existence. At the same time, it is equally matter of consolation to the friends who attend him in his lati moments, to think, that in leaving the world he does not relinquish the hopes of rising once more into life. Hence was the rise and progress of the doctrine of transmigration. Reason, dissatisfied with this illusion, may urge in vain, that without recollection there can be no continuance or identity of being; and that if a man does not remember that he has existed, he is in the same situation as if he had never existed before :-sentiment adopted what reason disallowed.,TH«
I O0 I K THE fhaltah, no doubt, has given a greater air of severity to the doctrine of the metempsychosis, with a view of making it more instrumental in supporting the system of morality it was necessary to establish. In fact, upon this idea of transmigration considered in the light of a pu nifhmnent, they explain the duties which the angels were required to perform. The principal ones were charity, abstinence from animal food, and a scrupulous adherence to the profession of their ancestors. This last-mentioned prejudice, in which all people seem to agree, notwithstanding they differ in their opinions concerning its origin, is without a parallel, if we except among the an cent Egyptians, whose institutions have some kind of historical relation to those of the Indians, which are now unknown to us. But though the Egyptian laws established a distinction of ranks, none were held in contempt; while, on the contrary, the laws of Brama, by the intro diction, perhaps, of some abuses, seem to have con denned one part of the nation to pain and infamy. These is reason to believe that the Indians were almost as civilized when Brama instituted his laws, as they are at present. Whenever a community begins to assume a er. tain form it naturally divides into several classes, accord. ing to the Varies: and extent of those arts that are necks. far to supply its demands. IT was doubtless the intention of Brama, by confirming these different professions by mansions of religion, and confining the exercise of them perpetually to the same families, to give them a lasting establishment on political principles; but he did not foresee that by these means he Should obstruct the progress of discoveries, which, in the end, might give rise to new occupations. Accordingly, if we may judge by the scrupulous attention paid by the Indians at this day to the laws of Brama, we may affirm that industry has made no advances among this people, once the time of this legislator; and that they yare almnof,as
as civilized as they are at present, when they first received 11 010 his laws. This remark is sufficient to give us an idea of the antiquity of there people, who have made no improve. ments in knowledge since an sera which seems to be the molt ancient in history. BRAMA prescribed different kinds of food for these re. fpcaive tribes. The military, and some other ranks, were permitted to eat venison and mutton. Fish was al lowed to some husbandmen, and mechanics. Others lived upon milk and vegetables. None of the Bramins ate any thing that had life. Upon the whole, these people are extremely sober; but their abstinence varies in pro portion to the greater pr less labour required in their professions. TsivY marry in their infancy, and their wives maintain a character of fidelity unknown in other countries. Some of the superior ranks are allowed the privilege of having several wives. It is well known that theft of the Bramins burn themselves on the death of their husbands, and they seem to be the only persons who are obliged to it by the laws. Others, however, are fond of following their ex ample, led by that point of honour to which so many yiflims are sacrificed in all countries. This cruel injunction is confined to widows who have no issue. Those who have children are expected to take care of their education and settlement in the world. Were it not for this pre caution, the State, which ought to be the guardian of these orphans, would be laden with a very oppressive burthen. SINCE the Moguls became masters of Hindostan, these horrible fpeaaclcs laye been very much diminished; as it colts a full top considerable for any but the inch to ob tain a licence for that purpose. But this obstacle has sometimes made their inclinations the stronger. Some women have been known to devote themselves for several years to the lowest and molt laborious employments, informer
B 0 0 K order to raise money to defray the expences of this extra A I .vacant suicide. Others have been more eagerly ambitiously sacrificing themselves, in proportion as scenes of this kind became less common. A few years ago a young, beautiful, and rich widow, of Surat, aspired to this high honour. The governor refused to grant her permission to consign herself, toge ther with so many valuable endowments, to the flames. The lady, fill of indignation, took a handful of burning coals, and, seemingly regardless of the pain, said in a firm tone to the governor, consider not alone the rendered If my age; see with what insensibility I hold tbi fire itn m hands; and nbrw that uwtb ieqal constancy I Sall throw muff into the fames. ALL the women, however, are not animated with this enthusiastic intrepidity. Many of them, who were ambitious of devoting themselves to the manes of their hus bands, have been seized with an involuntary tremor when their approaching fate appeared in all Its horrors. To encourage them to this great action, so contrary to reason and nature, a mixture is given them, which, by supplying the senses, removes the apprehensions, which the pre marathon for death mute unavoidably occasion. The mo ment the intoxication takes place, these unfortunate widows are directly thrown upon the fatal pile; and to this stratagem, invented by the advocates for fanaticism, are to be attributed those seeming signs of joy and satis marion, which appear in their countenances at the fight of those devouring flames that are ready to reduce them to ashes. This institution is not attributed to Brama, but rather seems to be the invention of rome Brain, who carried his jealousy beyond the grave. This piece of refinement, dictated by a barbarous and over-strained affection, is suitable to the character of those superstitious mortals,,2 who
who think there is an essential merit in rigid morality, and B O what they call a superior purity. THlsa people are of a mild, humane disposition, and are almost Rangers to the passions that prevail among us. What object can ambition have among men who are destined to continue always in the same State ? They love peaceable labour and an indolent life; and often quote this passage of one of their favourite authors; 'Ti bet ter toJfitjill than to walk; better to /oeep than st awake: But death is bes? of all. THEIR temperance, and the excessive heats of the climate restrain the violence of their passions, and prevent, them from having a strong desire for amorous plea sures. Avarice, which reigns chiefly in people of weak bodies, and little minds, is almost their only passion. We may judge of their ingenuity in arts by the specimens that are brought from India, The execution is difficult, but they are destitute of taste and elegance. The sciences are fill more neglected; nor have they the lear notion of mechanics; before they were acquainted with the Mohammedanss, no bridges had ever been erected. The Pagodas are in general nothing more than miserable structures of a square form, admitting no light but at the entrance, which always fronts the east; this defeat is sup supplied by tapers, which are kept burning by the pious and devout. It is asserted, however, that their great Pagodas are regularly built, and that the ornaments both within and without, are of considerable value. The idol is placed in the center of the building, so that the parties who are not admitted into the temple, may have a fight of it through the gates. In these Pagodas there are cisterns of water for the purification of the Indians. These superstitious ceremonies are chiefly observed by the people. It is said that there are still some of the .Bramins who know how to calculate eclipses; but it is not very easy to discover whether thil.is done by means,of
I6 6 K of some of their tables derived from their ancestors; or,whether they are actually acquainted with the theory pres piously necessary towards the fortiori of such problems. THE military class have chosen to fix their residence sri the northern provinces, and the Peninsula is chiefly inhabited by the inferior tribes. Hence it has happened, that all the powers who have attacked India by sea, have met with so little resistance. It may not be amiss to remind there philosophers who maintain that man is a frugivorous animal, that the military people who subsist upon animal food, are more robust, courageous and sprightly, and live longer than those of the other classes who feed upon verge' tables; at the same time it must be owned, that the difference between the inhabitants of the north and south, is of too uniform a call to be attributed entirely to the particular kind of nourishment; the cold of the north, the elasticity of the air, less fertility and more labour and exercise, with a more varied kind of life; ail these whet the appetite, brace the nerves, raise a spirit of resolution and activity, and give a firmer tone to the organs; on the other hand the heats of the south, together with great quantities of fruit, an inactive life, a constant per aspiration, a more free and more lavish use of the means conducive to population, more indulgence in effeminate pleasures, and a sedentary and uniform course of life; while they increase the number of births, occasion a speedier dissolution. Upon the whole it Should seem, that though man was not by nature designed to consume the flesh of animals, he is endued with a power of accommodating himself to the various modes of life that prevail in every different climate, and either hunts and lives upon steel, or vegetables, or turns (shepherd or husbandman according to the fertility or barrenness of the soil. THE religion of Brama was antiently, and fill conti nues to be, divided into eighty-three sets,. which agree in Come fundamental points, and have no disputes about,the
the less; they live in amity with men of all persuasions B o o X as their own does not oblige them to make proselytes. The Indians seldom admit strangers to their worship, and always with the greatest reluctance, This was in some measure the spirit of the ancient superstition; as it appears among the Egyptians, the Jews, the Greeks and the Romans: and though it has occasioned fewer ravages than the zeal of making converts, it prevents the intercourse of society, and raises an additional barrier between one people and another. WHEN we consider how kindly nature has provided for the happiness of these fertile countries, where every want is easily supplied; and that the compassionate temper and morals of the Indians render them equally averse to per section and the spirit of conquest, we cannot help la meeting that a barbarous inequality should have distinguished one part of the nation by power and privileges, while the rest of the inhabitants are loaded with misery and contempt. What can be the cause of this strange Illusion'? It muff doubtless be traced to that principle which has been the constant source of all the calamities, that have befallen the inhabitants of this globe. WE need only suppose that a powerful people, with few lights to direr them, adopt an original error, which ig, france brings into fashion: as soon as this error becomes general, it is made the bails of an intire system of politics and morality: and men begin to find that their innocent propensities run counter to their duty, In order to con form to this new plan of morality, they must perpetually be offering violence to the order of nature. This conti null struggle will introduce a most amazing contrariety into their manners; and the nation will be composed of a fit of wretches, who will pass their lives in mutually tor meeting each other, and accusing nature. Such is the piAure of all the people upon earth, excepting, perhaps, a few societies of savages. Absurd prejudices have persevered
0 0 K versed human reason, and even stifled that inftina which teaches animals to resist oppression and tyranny. Multi; tides of the human race implicitly submit to be a fort of vassals to a mill number of men.who oppress them. SUCH is the fatal progress of that original error,, which imposture has either produced or kept up in the mind, of man. May true knowledge revive those rights of rea unable beings, which to be recovered, want only to be known. Ye sages of the earth, philosophers of every na tion, it is yours alone to make laws by pointing them out to your countrymen. Take the glorious resolution to in tru your fellow-creatures: and be assured that it is much eater to propagate truth than error. Mankind, animated by the desire of happiness, to which you will point the way,willliflen to you with attention. Make those millions of hireling haves blush, who are always ready, at the command of their masters, to destroy their fellow;citizens, Rouze an the powers of human nature to oppose this subversion of social laws. Teach mankind that liberty is the institution of God; authority that of man. Expofe-thofe mysterious arts which hold the world in chains and dark. ness: and let the people be sensible how far their credulity has been imposed upon, aid re-assuming, with one accord. the use of their faculties, vindicate the honour, of the human race.,BESIDas the natives, the Portuguese found. Moham. means in India; some of whom came from the borders of Africa. The greatest part of them were descendents of the Arabs, who either fettled here or made incursions$ They had made themselves masters of all the countries as far as the Indus, by the force of arms. The most enter prizing among them passed this rivers and successively penetrated into the extremities of the East. .On-thisjAr mense continent they became the favors of Arabia and Egypt, and were treated with distinguished respect by all the sovereigns who wished to keep up an intercourse with,these
there countries. Here they multiplied to a great degree; B 0 0 K for as their religion allowed polygamy, they married in ' every place where they made any flay. Their success was stil more rapid and lasting in the islands that lie scattered in this ocean. The want of com mere procured them the best reception both from princes and their subjects. They soon rose to the higher dignities in these petty hates, and became the arbiters of go government. They took advantage of the superiority of their knowledge, and the support they received from their country, to establish an universal dominion. The despots and their vassals, in order to ingratiate themselves with them, abandoned a religion to which they had no great attachment, for new opinions which might procure them home advantages. This sacrifice cost them the les, as the preachers bS the Koran made nb scruple of admitting ancient superstitions into an alliance with those they wished to establish. THESE Mohammedan Arabs, who were apostles and merchants at the same time; had already propagated their religion by purchasing a great number of slaves, to whom, after they had been circumcised, and instruct in their doctrine, they gave their freedom; but as a certain pride prevented them from mixing their blood with that of these freedmen, the latter have in time become a distinct people, inhabiting the coast of the Indian Peninsula from Goa to Madrasss; they are at present knov'n in Malabar by the name of Pooliahs, and by that of Coolies, in Coromandel misunderstand neither the Persian, the Arabian, nor the Moorish language; and confine themselves to that of the countries in which they live; the generality are addicted to commerce, and profess a species of Mo mohammedanism extremely corrupted by the Indian super Editions. Hindostan, which has since been alios entirely re duce by war under a foreign yoke, wasn't the time of the arrival of the Portuguese, divided between the kings VOL. . of
B 0 K of Cambaya, Delhi, Bifnagar, Narzingua and Calicut, L each of which reckoned several sovereigns, more or less powerful, among their tributaries. The last of these monarchs, who is better known by the name of Zamorin, which answers to that of emperor, than by the name of his capital city; possessed the most maritime states, and his. empire extended over all Malabar. There is an ancient tradition, that when the Arabs began to establish themselves in the Indies in the eighth century, the king of Malabar took so great a fancy to their religion, that he not only embraced it, but deter mined to end his days at Mecca. Calicut, where he embark ed, became a place so dear and so respectable to the Moors, that they were insensibly led to make it the constant ren devout of their (hips. Thus by the sole effect of this superstition, this harbour, incommodious and dangerous as it was, became the richest staple of there countries, Precious stones, pearls, amber, ivory, china-ware, gold and fiver, silks and cottons, indigo, sugar, all kinds of spices, valuable woods, perfumes, beautiful varnish; and whatever conduces to the elegances of life were carried thither from all parts of the east. Some of these rich commodities came by sea; but as navigation was neither so safe nor so brHk as it is now, a great deal was brought by land by buffaloes and elephants. The P'rm- Gal, having informed himself of these particulars, guess efla- bll a set when he touched at Melinda, hired an able pilot to con tlhcaft O tua him to that port in which trade was the most flou Mlkh1r-willing. Here he fortunately met with a Moor of Tunis,,who understood the Portuguese language, and having-been with admiration the great atchievements of this na tion on the coasts of Barbary, conceived a fondness for it which overcame his prejudices. This predilection en gaged the Moor to use all his interest in favour of there strangers, who put themselves entirely under his direction He procured Gama an audience of the Zamorin, who,proposed
roofed an alliance, and a treaty of commerce with the B 0 0 K king his mailer. This was upon the point of being con eluded, when the Musulman found means to throw a sus picton upon a rival power, whose courage, activity and knowledge they dreaded. The reports they made to him of its ambition and restlessness, made such an impression on the mind of the prince, that he resolved to destroy those adventurers whom he had just received so favourably. GAMA being informed of this change by his faithful guide, sent his brother on board the fleet, telling him, If you could her that am thrown into prison, or put to death, Forbid you, as your commander, either to come to my assistance, or revenge my loss; et fail immediately, and int form the king of the particulars of our voyage they were happily not reduced to there extremities. The Zamorin, who wanted neither power nor inclina tion, wanted courage to put his design in execution; and the admiral had leave to rejoin his company. Having made some well-timed reprifals,?which procured a restitution of the merchandise he had left a pledge in Calicut, he failed for Europe. IT is impossible to describe the joy that prevailed at Lisbon on his return. The inhabitants beheld themselves on the point of establishing the richest commerce in the world, and being not only avaricious, but superstitious at the same time, flattered themselves with the hopes of propagating their religion either by persuasion, or by the force of arms. The pope, who let flip no opportunity of confirming the opinion that they are the sovereigns of the earth, gave the Portuguese all the coasts they should discover in the east, and inspired this little state with all the folly of conquest. NUMBERS were eager to embark on board the new fleet that was fitted out for an expedition to the Indies. Thir teen vessels that failed from the Tagus, under the com and of Alvarez Cabral, arrived at Calicut, and restored a some
B 0 0 K rome of the Zamorin's fubjrts that Gama had carried away,, with him. These Indians spoke highly of the treatment they had received; but it was a long time before the Zamorin was reconciled to the Portuguese; the Moorish party prevailed; and the people of Calicut, seduced by their intrigues, massacred fifty of the adventurers. Ca brat, in revenge, burnt all the Arabian vessels in the harbour, cannonaded the town, and then failed first to Cochin and afterwards to Cananor. THE kings of there two towns gave him spices, offered him gold and silver, and proposed an alliance with him against the Zamorin, to whom they were tributaries. The kings of Nor, Clan, and several other princes, made the same overtures; flattering themselves that they should all be relieved from the tribute they paid to the Zamorin, extend the frontiers of their states, and see their harbours crouded with the spoils of Asia. This general infatuation procured to the Portuguese so great an ascendant over the whole country of Malabar, that wherever they appeared they gave the law. No sovereign was sus served to enter into an alliance with them, unless he would acknowledge himself dependent on the court of Lion, give leave that a citadel should be built in his capital, and sell his merchandise at the price fixed by the buyer. The foreign merchant was obliged to wait till the Portuguese had completed their lading; and no person was sus served to navigate there seas without producing passports from them. The wars in which they were unavoidably engaged, gave little interruption to their trade; with a handful of men they defeated numerous armies; their enemies met with them every where, and always fled be fore them; and, in a Short time, the ships of the Moors, of the Zamorin and his dependants, no longer dared to-make their appearance the Portuguese, thus became the conquerors of the East, were perpetually sending rich cargoes to their own,country,
country, which resounded with the same of their exploits. B O O K The port of Lilbon gradually became the resort of all the l . Chipping in Europe. It became the grand mart of the merchandise of India: for the Portuguese, who fetched it from the very spot, sold it at a lower rate than the traders of other nations. To secure and extend there advantages, it became ne cesare to call in the aid of reflection to correct and ircngthen what had hitherto been the offspring of chance, a singular intrepidity, and a happy concurrence of circumstances They wanted to establish a system of power and commerce, which at the fane time that it was extensive enough to take in all object, should be so well con need, that all the parts of the grand structure they meant to raise, should mutually strengthen each other. Notwithstanding the information the court of Lilbon had received from the account transmitted from India, and the testimony of those who had hitherto been intrusted with the management ps her interests in that quarter; the wisely repose all her confidence in Alphonfo Albuquerque, the croft discerning of all the Portuguese who had been in Asia. TaE' new viceroy acquitted himself beyond expectation. He found it necessary, that Portugal should have an establishment which might easily be defended, where there was a good harbour and a wholesome air, and where the Portuguese might refresh themselves, after the fatigues of their passage from Europe. With this view, he cast his eyes upon Goa, which he foresaw would be an important acquisition to Libri. GoA, which rises in the form of an amphitheatre, is situated near the middle of the coast of Malabar, upon an island separated from the continent by the two branches of a river which falls into the tea, at some distance from the city, forming'under its walls one of the finest har hours in the world. This island is reckoned to be tense 3 leagues
B o0 K leagues in circumference. Within this little spot are to be, ,e seen hills, rallies, woods, canals, springs of excellent water, a city magnificently built, market-towns and large villages. Before the entrance into the port, the two peninsulas Salfet and Barca, which equally serve the pur poses of defence and Shelter. They are guarded by forts lined with artillery, where all Ships are obliged to flop be fore they come to an anchor in the harbour. GOA, though not so considerable at that time as it has been since, was looked upon as the most advantageous post in India. It belonged to the king of the Dean; but Idalcan, who was intruded with the government of it, had assumed an independency, and endeavoured to extend his power in Malabar. While this usurper was pursuing his schemes on the continent, Albuquerque ap, feared at the gates of Goa, took the city by storm, and acquired this valuable advantage with very little loss. IDALcAN, apprized of the loss the king had sustained, did not hesitate a moment what measures he should take. In conjunction even with the Indians his enemies, who were almost as much interested in this matter as him self, he marched towards the capital, with a degree of expedition never known before in that country. The Portuguese having no firm footing, and finding themselves unable to preserve their conquest, retreated to their ships, which kept their station in th: harbour, and sent to Cochin for a reinforcement. While they were waiting for it, their provisions failed, Idalcan offered them q supply, giving them to understand, That he chose to con quer by arms, and not by famine. It was customary at that time, in the Indian wars, for the armies to sussex provisions to be carried to their enemies. Albuquerque re je&ed the offer made him, with this reply, That he would receive ns prefentsfrom Idalcan till they were friends. The succour he hourly expected never arrived,,TnHI
THIS disappointment determined him to retreat and to B 0 0 K postpone the execution of his darling project, to a more favourable opportunity, which presented itself a few months after. Idalcan being obliged to take the field again to preserve his dominions from absolute destruction Albuquerque made a sudden attack upon Goa. which he carried by storm, and fortified himself in the place. As the harbour of Calicut was good for nothing, and ceased to be frequented by the Arabian vessels, all its trade and riches were transferred to this city, which be, came the metropolis of all the Portuguese settlements in India.,THE natives of the country were too weak, too dispirited and too much at variance, to put a stop to the success of this enterprizing nation. Nothing remained to be done but to guard against the Egyptians, nor was the least precaution either omitted or neglected. EGYPT, which is considered as the parent of all hito- The man rival antiquities, the source of policy, and the nursery of ner of car-trying n arts and sciences, after having remained for ages in a trade In fate of reparation from the rest of the world, who were dia beforre,the con held in contempt by this wise country, understood and queftsofd th practised navigation. The inhabitants had long neglected Portuguese the Mediterranean, where they did not certainly expect any great advantages, and directed their course towards the Indian ocean, which was the true channel of wealth. STRucK with the situation of this country between two seas, one of which opens the road to the east, and the other to the welt, Alexander formed the design of fix ing the feat of his empire in Egypt, and to make it the centre of trade to the whole world. This prince, who had more discernment than any other conqueror, saw that if it were possible to form an union between his present and future acquisitions, he must make choice of a country which nature seems to have placed, as it were, in contain with Africa and Asia to connect them with Europe's + The
B 00 KX The premature death of the greatest captain that history, and fable have held forth to the admiration of mankind would for ever have annihilated there vast projects, had they not been in part pursued by Ptolemy, one of his lieutenants; who, when the most magnificent spoil ever Known, came to be divided, claimed Egypt for his share.,IN the reign of this new sovereign and his immediate successors, commerce made prodigious improvements, Alexandria was the mart of the merchandise that came from India, by the Red Sea, to the port of Terence. A waITER, who has entered deeply into this subject, and whose accounts we follow, tells us, that some of the numerous vessels that were built in consequence of there connexions, traded only in the gulph with Arabians and Abyssinians: among others, which ventured out into the main ocean, some of them failed southward to the right along the eastern coasts of Africa, as far as the island of Madagascar; others steered to the left towards the Per tian Gulph, went even as far as the Euphrates, to trade with the people on its banks, particularly with the Greeks, whom Alexander had brought there with him in his ex petitions. Others, still grown more enterprizing from the hopes of gain, penetrated as far as the mouths of the Indus, traversed the coast of Malabar, and touched at the sand of Ceylon, known by the ancients under the name of Taprobane. A very small number passed through the Coromandel to go up the river Ganges, as far as Paly bora, a town the molt celebrated in India on account of 'its riches. Thus, industry proceeded by gradual ad dances, from one river or coast to another, to appropriate the productions of those countries that abound most in fruits, flowers, perfumes, precious stones, and all the delicacies of voluptuous luxury. THE boats they made nfe of in there expeditions were long and flat, not unlike those that are seen upon the Nile. Before the invention of the compass, in consequence
quelle of which, larger vessels, carrying more fail, were B 0 O K fitted out for the main ocean; they were obliged to row close to the shore, and to follow the windings of the coast from one point of land to another. They were obliged to make the sides of their ships less, in order to weaken the power of the wind over them, and less deep, for fear 6f striking against rocks, sands, or shallows. Thus a voy, age not so long by one third as those which are now pert formed in less than fix months, sometimes lasted five years or more. What their vessels wanted in size, was supplied by their numbers; and the disadvantages of their flow failing were compensated by the frequent squadrons they fitted out. THE Egyptians exported to India, as has been done ever since, woollen manufactures, iron, lead, copper, some small pieces workmanship in glass, and silver in exchange for ivory, ebony, tortoiseshell, white and printed linens, silks, pearls, precious tones, cinnamon, spices, and par circularly frankincense; which was a perfume the most in esteem, on account of its being used in divine worship, and contributing to the gratification of princes. It sold at so high a price, that the merchants counterfeited it under pretence ofimprovingit. So apprehensive is avarice of being defrauded by poverty, that the workmen who were employed in making it were naked; having only a girdle about their loins, the ends of which were scaled by the director of the manufacture. ALL the sea-faring and trading nations in the Mediterranean came to the ports of Egypt to purchase the produce of India. When Carthage and Corinth became the victims of the vices introduced by their opulence, the Egyptians were themselves obliged to export the riches with which these cities formerly loaded their own vessels. As their maritime power increased, they extended their navigation as far as Cadiz. They could scarcely supply the demands ps pome, whose luxury kept pace with its conquests: at,the
0 0 XK the same time that they were arrived at such a pitch extravagances themselves, that the accounts given of it have the air of romance. Cleopatra, with whom their empire and history expired, was as profuse as the was voluptuous But notwithstanding these incredible expences, the advantages they derived from the trade of the Indies were so great, that after they were subdued and spoiled, lands, provisions, and merchandise, fetched double the price at Rome. If Pliny may be credited, the conqueror, by reinstating the conquered in this source of opulence, which was calculated rather to flatter their vanity than to aggrandize their power, gained twenty thousand per cent. Though it is easy to see that this calculation is exaggerated we may from thence form a conjecture what profits must have been reaped in those distant ages, when the Indians were not so well acquainted with their own in terest. WHILE the Romans had virtue enough to preserve the power acquired by their ancestors, Egypt very much con tribute to support the dignity of the empire by the riches it brought thither from the Indies. But the fulness of luxury, like the corpulency of the body, is a symptom of an approaching decay. This vast empire, sunk under its own weight, and like leavers of wood or metal, whose excessive length contributes to their weakness, broke into two parts. EGYPT was annexed to the eastern empire, which lasted longer than that of the weft; not being attacked so soon, or with so much vigour. If riches could have supplied the place of courage, its situation and resources would even have made it invincible. But the inhabitants of this em pire had nothing but stratagem to defend it against an enemy, who, besides the enthusiasm of a new religion, were animated with all the strength of an uncivilized people. A torrent thus increasing, as it destroyed every thing in its passage, was not to be flopped by so flight a,3 tarrier,
barrier. In the seventh century it laid waste several pro B 0 O K vices, and Egypt amongst the rest; which having been - -, one of the principal empires of antiquity, and the model of all modern monarchies, was destined to fink into a state of languor and insignificancy, in which it remains to this day. THE Greeks comforted themselves under this misfortune, on finding that the wars of the Saracens had diverted the vitam of the Indian commerce from Alexandria to Con ltantinople, by two well-known channels; one of these was, the Euxine or Black Sea, where it was usual to em bark to go up the Phases. Large vessels were at first em played, and afterwards smaller ones were introduced, which failed as far as Seraphina; from whence, in four or five days, the merchants conveyed their commodities'by land-carriage to the river Cyrus, which falls into the CaC. pian Sea. Having crossed this tempestuous ocean, they arrived at the mouth of the Oxus, which extended almost as far as the source of the Indus, and from whence they returned the same way, laden with the treasures of Asia. This was one of the means of communication between this continent, always naturally rich, and that of Europe, which was then poor, and ruined by its own inhabitants. THE other channel of communication was more easy, The Indian vessels, failing from different coasts, passed the Persian gulph, and arrived at the banks of the Euphrates, where they unloaded their cargo; which, from this river, was in one day sent by land-carriage to Palmyra. This city, the ruins of whic [till preserve an idea of its opulence transported this merchandise through the desarts to the confines of Syria. By this rich commerce, it became more flourishing than could have been expected from its sandy situation. Since its definition, the caravans, after some changes, constantly took the road of Aleppo, which, by means of the port of Alexandretta, turned the current of wealth to Constantinople, which at length became the general market of the productions of India.,T$IS
B 0 O K THIs advantage might alone have retarded the fall of, the empire, and, perhaps, have restored it to its ancient grandeur; but that had been acquired by its arms, its virtues, and its frugal manners: and it was now destitute of all those means of maintaining its prosperity. The Greeks, corrupted by the prodigious accession of wealth, which their exclusive commerce poured in upon them, aloft without any care or activity of their own, abandoned themselves to an indolent and effeminate way of life, which infallibly leads to luxury; fond only of the trivial amusements of glittering shows, and the voluptuous refinements of art; of futile, obscure, and sophistical disquisitions on matters of taste, sentiment, and even religion and politics. They suffered themselves to be oppressed, without asserting their right to be governed, and either made their court to a successive race of tyrants, by tale most abjea adulation, or irritated them by a faint resist ance. These people were bought by the Emperor, and sold to all the monopolizers who aimed to enrich themselves by the ruin of the slate. The government, fill more corrupted than its fubjefs, suffered its navy to decay, and placed its whole dependance on the treaties it entered into with the strangers, whose Ships frequented its ports. The Italians had insensibly engrossed the article of transportation which the Greeks had for a long time kept in their own hands. This branch of business, which is rather la various than profitable, was doubly useful to a trading nation, whose chief riches consuls in maintaining their vigour by labour. Inactivity hastened the destruction of Constantinople, which was pressed and surrounded on all sides by the conquests of the Turks. The Genoese sell into the net, which their perfidy and avarice had woven for them. Mohammed the Second drove them from Cassa, to which place they had, of late years, drawn the greater part of the Asiatic trade.,THE
THE Venetians did not wait for this event-to give them B 0 o K an opportunity of reviving their connections with Egypt. They'd experienced more indulgence than they expected from a government established since the last crusade, and hearty resembling that of Algiers. The Mammelucs, who at the time of these wars had taken possession of a throne they had hitherto supported, were for the most part slaves, who were brought from Circassia in their infancy, and trained up early to a military life. The supreme authority was vested in a chief, and a council composed of four and twenty principal'perfons. This military corps, which ease would unavoidably have enervated, was recruited every year by a croud of brave adventurers, who flocked from all parts, with a view of making their fortune. These needy people were prevailed upon, by a sum of money and promises, to content that their country should be made the mart of Indian merchandise. Thus they were bribed into a measure, which the political interest of their Fate always required them to adopt. The inhabitants of Pisa and Florence, the Catalans, and the Ge noise, received some benefit from this change; but it was of signal advantage to the Venetians, by whose ma .engagement it was effected. Things were in this situation when the Portuguese made their appearance in the Indies. THIS great event, and the consequences that immediately followed it, occasioned much uneasiness at Venice. This Republic, so celebrated for its wisdom, had lately been disconcerted by a league which it could not oppose, and certainly did not foresee. Several princes of different interests, who were rivals in power, and had pretensions of an opposite nature, united, in defiance of all the rules justice and policy, to destroy a fate which had not given any of them the leaf umbrage: and even Lewis the Xllth. whose interest was most concerned in the pre servation of Venice, brought it to the brink of ruin by,the
B3 0 K the victory of Arundel. The quarrels which must necesse,; family arise among such allies, joined to the prudence of,the Republic, Caved it from this danger, which though more imminent in appearance, was, in sad, not so great nor so immediate as that they were now exposed to, by the discovery of a passage to the Indies by the Cape of Good Hope. Vesicle soon perceived that their commerce, and con sequently their power, was on the point of being transi ferret to the Portuguese. Every expedient was tried that an able administration could suggest. Some of the skilful emissaries, which the state took care to retain and employ dexterously in all places, persuaded the Arabs fettled in their country, and those that were dispersed over India, or the eastern coasts of Africa, that as their interest was equally concerned wit. that of Venice, they ought to unite with her against a nation, which had made itself mistress of the common source of their riches. THE rumour of this league reached the Soudan of Egypt, whose attention was already awakened by the mis fortunes he felt, as well as those he foresaw. The customs, which constituted a principal branch of his revenue, and by which five per cent. was levied on the importation, and ten on the exportation of Indian goods, began to bring in little or nothing. The frequent bankruptcies, which were the necessary consequence of the embarrassment of affairs, exasperated men's minds against the government, which is always responsible to the people for the calamities they endure. The militia, which was ill paid, fearing that their pay would be fill more precarious, railed muti nies, which are more to be dreaded on the decline of a state, than in the time of its prosperity. Egypt was equally a sufferer by the trade carried on by the Portuguese, and by the obstructions their own was exposed to by their en encroachments. THE Egyptians might have extricated themselves from there inconveniencies by fitting out a fleet; but there
Red Sea afforded no materials for the building ships. The B 0 0 K Venetians removed this obstacle by sending wood, and ' other materials, to Alexandria. They were conveyed by the Nile to Cairo, from whence they were carried by camels to Suez. From this celebrated port, in the year 15o8, four large vessels, one galleon, two gallies, and three galliots, failed to India. Tin Portuguese, who foresaw this confederacy, had The Poor the preceding year laid a scheme to prevent it, by making ghfs m'kd themselves matters of the Red Sea; secure, that with malcr, of this advantage, they should have nothing to fear from t lt"dSm. this connexion, nor from the combined forces of Egypt and Arabia. With this view, they formed a plan to seize upon the island of Socotora, well known to the ancients by the name of Diofcorides, on account of the abundance and excellence of its aloes. It lies in the gulph of the Red Sea, a hundred and eighty leagues from the straits of Babelmandel formed by the Cape of Guardafui on the African side, and by the Cape of Attack on the side of Arabia. TRISTAN d'Acugna failed from Portugal with a con miserable armament to attack this island. Upon disbanding he was encountered by Ibrahim, son of the king of the people of Attack, who was sovereign of part of Arabia and Socotora. This young prince was killed in the engage ment; the Portuguese besieged the only town that was in the island, and carried it by storm, though it was defended to the last extremity by a garrison superior in number to their small army. The soldiers that composed this garrison determined not to survive the Ton of their sovereign, re sured to capitulate, and were all, to the last man, put to the sword. D'Acugna's troops, by their intrepidity, proved aa over-match for their bravery. THIS successful enterprise was not attended with the advantages that were expected from it. It was found that the island was barren, that it had no port and that the,fhipa
B O 0 K ships that came from the Red Sea never touched there) '. . though they could not enter the gulph without taking observations of it. Accordingly, the Egyptian fleet found a safe passage into the Indian ocean, where it joined that of Cambaya. These united armaments had the advantage of the Portuguese, who were considerably weakened by the great number of vessels they had lately fitted out to carry merchandise to Europe. This triumph, how ever, did not last long; the conquered party got rein enforcements, and regained their superiority which they ever after preferred. The armaments, which continued to come from Egypt, were always beaten and dispersed by the finally Portuguese squadrons that cruised at the entrance of the gulp has, however, these skirmishes kept up a constant alarm, and occasioned some expence, Albuquerque thought it in unbent on him to put an end to them by the destruction of Suez, But a thousand obstacles opposed the execution of this projec.,THE Red Sea, which takes its name, from the corals. madrepore, and marine plants, which line its bottom, almost throughout, or perhaps, only from the sand which discolours its waters, is surrounded on one side by Arabia and on the other by Upper Ethiopia and Egypt. It mea. sures fix hundred and eighty leagues from the sand o Socotora to the famous Isthmus, which unites Africa t< Asia. As its length is very considerable and its breadth shall, and no river falls into it of sufficient force to count tera the influence of the tide, it is more offered by th, motions of the great ocean, than any of the inland sea nearly in the same latitude. It is not much exposed t4 tempests ; the winds usually blow from the north an south, and being periodical like the monsoons in India invariably determine the season of failing into, or out o this sea. It may be divided into three parts; the middle division is open and navigable at all times, its depth be,- z . in,
ing ftotn twenty-five to sixty fathboihs. The other twb; ,;O.:I 1. which lie nearer the.landd though they abound in-rocks, - are more frequented by-the neighbouring nations, who being. obliged to keep close to the shore on account of the smallness .of their vessels, never launch out into the principal. channel', unless they expect a squall of wind. The difficulty riot to say impossibility, of landing in tht harbours on.thls' coast, makes the navigation dangerous for vessels of large burthen, hot to mention the great number of desert islands they meet with in their passage which are barren; aid afford tio'frelh waste. -ALBuvQeuItoiiu-,notwithftanding his abilities, experience and refdlutibtl, could not surmount so many obftaJ cleg. After entering a considerable way int the Red Sea, hee was obliged to return with his fleet, which had suffered perpetual hardships, and been exposed to tt' greatest dangers' He was prompted by a restless aid cruel spirit of enterprize, to employ methods for rhe ac combplilhrent of his designs; which though of a still bolder cast, te' thought could not fail of success. He wanted to prevail with the emperor ps Ethiopia, whod'fd2 limited the' protection of Portugal to turn the coit'fe o 6 thence so as to.open a passage for hin into the Red Sei.' Egypt Would. then have become in a great reality' unili- hbaitable4:or at least unfit for cotiimierce; Id the meath tibtnehe.:propbfed to transport into Arabia, by the gulph of Persia, three or four hundred horse Which he thought would-Jbe-uflicient.:to plunder Medina and Mecca; He imagined;that by so bold an expedition, he should strike terror into the Mohammedanss, and put a stop to that pro' digious;.concourfe of pilgrims which was the main-sup' port of a trade he wanted totally to extirpate. .,Oae.Ft enterprizes of a less hazardous nature, and at tended with. more immediate advantage, led him to' post' pon the ,ruin of a power, whose influence as a rival, was the only, circumstance necessary to oe guarded agaiilh,L. i. . at
B o 0 K at the present juncture. The conquest of Egypt by the,; - .Turks, a few years after, made it requisite to act with the greatest precaution. Those men of genius, who were qualified to pursue the series of events, which had pre ceded and followed the discovery of the passage by the Cape of Good Hope, and to form deep conjectures con morning the revolutions which this new track of navigation must necessarily prevent, could not help considering this remarkable transaction as the most important ara in the history of the world. Elope began to recover its strength by flow degrees, and to take off the yoke of slavery, which had disgraced its inhabitants from the time of the Roman Conquests down to the institution of the feudal laws. Innumerable tyrants, who kept multitudes in a state of oppression and slavery, had been ruined by the folly of the crusades To defray the expences of these wild expeditions, the) were obliged to sell their lands and castles, and for pecuniary consideration, to allow their vassals some pri. visages, which at length almost re-instated them in the order of human beings. From that time, the right o property began to be introduced among private persons and gave them that kind of independence, without which property itself is a mere illusion. Thus the first dawn kings of liberty in Europe were, however unexpectedly ewing to the crusades; and the rage of conquest so once contributed to the welfare of mankind. IF Vasco de Gama had not made these discoveries, th spirit of liberty would have been again extinguished, an probably without hopes of a revival. The Turks ha lately expelled those savage nations, who, pouring for the extremities of the globe, had driven out the Romans to become like them, the scourge of human kind; and on barbarous institutions would have been followed by op pression fill more intolerable. This must inevitably hav been the case, if the savage conquerors of Egypt, ha,nc
not been repulsed by the Portuguese in their several ex B o0 K petitions to India. Their possession of the riches of Asia, would have secured their claim to those of Europe. As the trade of the whole world was in their hands, they mus consequently have had the greatest maritime force that ever was known. What opposition could our continent then have made to the progress of a people whose religion and policy equally animated them to conquest ? DIssENTIoNs prevailed in England on account of its liberties; France contended for the interests of its sovereigns Germany for those of its religion; and Italy was employed in adjusting the mutual claims of a tyrant and an impostor. Europe, over-run with fanatics and armies, resembled a sick person, who falling into a deli rum, in the transport of madness opens his veins till he faints with loss of blood and spirits. In this slate of weakness and anarchy, it was ill prepared to resist the in curious of the Turks.,As the calm which succeeds the violence of civil wars makes a nation formidable to arts neighbours; so the dissensions which divide it as certainly expose it to ravage and opreilion. The depraved morals of the clergy would likewise have favoured the introduction of a new worship; and we should have been condemned to a State of slavery without any hopes of release. In truth, there is not one among all the political and religious systems that oppress mankind, allows so little scope to liberty as that of the Mussulman. Throughout almost all Europe, a religion foreign to government, and introduced without its patronage; rules of morality dispersed without order or precision in obscure writings, capable of an endless va piety of interpretations; authority engrossed by priests and princes, who are perpetually contesting their right to rule over their fellow-creatures; political and civil in situations daily formed in contradiction to the prevailing religion which condemns an inequality of rank and'am-',F 2 bi:ion;
B 0 0 ambition; a turbulent and enterprizing administration, ' which, in order to tyrannize with a higher hand, is,perpetually letting one part of the slate at variance with the other. All these principles of discord must necessarily keep the minds of men in constant agitation. Is it surprizing that on the view of this tumultuous scene, nature should start from her entrancement, and earnestly aek, " Whether man was born free ?" BUT when men once become saves to a religion which consecrates tyranny by. uniting the throne with the altar; which seems to check the rallies of ambition by encouraging voluptuousness, and cherishes a spirit of indolence by forbidding the exercise of the understanding: there is no reason to hope for any considerable revolutions. Thus the Turks, who frequently strangle their mailer, have never entertained a thought of changing their go government. This is an idea beyond the reach of minds enervated and corrupted like theirs. Hence it appears that the whole world would have lost its liberty, had not the mois superstitious, and, perhaps, the most enslaved nation in Christendom, checked the progress of the Mo. mohammedan fanaticism, and put a stop to the career ol victories, by depriving them of those sources of wealth which were necessary to the success of their enterprizes, Albuquerque went still further; not content with having taken effectual measures to prevent any vessel from passion from the Arabian Tea to the Indian ocean, he attempted to get the command of the Persian gulph. The Poena the mouth of the strait of Mocandon, which lead! guess make theses into the Persian gulph, lies the island of Gombroon. II star of the eleventh century an Arabian conqueror built upon the Petian gulp. this barren rock the city of Ormus, which afterwards became the capital of an empire, comprehending a conti durable part of Arabia on one side, and of Persia on th other. Ormus had two good harbours, and was large and w#l fortified its riches and strength were entiel,owinl
owing to its situation. It was the center of trade be B 0 o K tween Persia and the Indies, which was very considerable, if we remember that the Persians at that time caused the greatest part of the merchandise of Asia to be conveyed to Europe from the ports of Syria and Cassa. At the time of the arrival of the foreign merchants, Ormus as forded a more splendid and agreeable scene than any city in the east. Persons from all parts of the globe ex changed their commodities, ant transacted their business, with an air of politeness and attention, which are seldom fen in other places of trade. THESE manners were introduced by the merchants be longing to the port, who engaged foreigners to imitate their affability. Their address, the regularity of their police, and the variety of entertainments which their city afforded, joined to the interests of commerce, invited merchants to make it a place of retort. The pavement of the streets was covered with masts, and in some places with carpets; and the linen awnings which were suspended from the tops of the houses prevented any inconvenience from the heat of the fun. Indian cabinets ornamented with gilded vases, or china filled with flowering shrubs, or aromatic plants, adorned their apartments. Camels laden with water were stationed in the public squares; Persian wines, perfumes, and all the delicacies of the table were finished in the greatest abundance, and they had the music of the east in its higher perfection. Ormus was crouded with beautiful women from all parts of Aia, who were instruct from their infancy in all the arts of varying and heightening the pleasures of voluptuous love. In short, universal opulence an extensive commerce, a refined luxury, politeness in the men, aid gallantry in the women, united all their attractions to make this city the feat of pleasure. ALsUqUERQOUE, on his arrival in the Indies, began to ra wage the coasts, and to plunder the towns that belonged 3 to
B 0 0 K to the jurisdiction of Ormus; though these inroads, which,L- shewed more of the robber than of the conqueror were naturally repugnant to Albuquerque's character; he thought himself obliged to have resource to these harsh ex pediments, to induce a power he was not in a condition to subdue by force, to submit voluntarily to the yoke he wanted to impose. As soon as he imagined the alarm had. spread sufficiently to favour his designs, he appeared before the capital, and summoned the king to acknowledge himself tributary to Portugal, as he was to Persia. This proposal was received in the manner it deserved. A fleet composed of ships from Orchis, Arabia and Persia, came to an engagement with Albuquerque's squadron, who with five veils destroyed the whole armament. The king, disheartened by his ill success, consented that the conqueror 'hould erctt a fort which might command the city and both its harbours. ALEqu'UERQUE, who knew the importance of seizing the present conjuncture, carried on the work with the utnmct expedition. He laboured as hard as the meanest of his followers; but this spirit of activity could not prevent the enemy from taking notice of the smallness of his num boers. Star, who in consequence of the revolutions so frequent in the all, had been railed from the condition of a shave, to that of a prime minister, was ashamed of hav ing sacrificed the state to a handful of adventurers. As his talent lay rather in the arts of policy than of war, he determined to repair the ill consequences of his timidity by stratagem. By the arts of insinuation and bri ber, he succeeded so far in sowing dissensions among the Portuguese, and prejudicing them against their leader, that they were frequently ready to take arms against each other. This animosity, which increased every day, de termined them to remark at the instant they were in formed that a plot was concerted to massacre them. Al buq.erque, whose esprit rose superior to opposition and,difontent,
discontent, resolved to starve the place and deprive it of B 0 0 K succours by cutting off all communication. It must certainly have fallen into his hands, had not three of his cap pains shamefully abandoned him, and gone off with their ships. To justify their desertion, they were guilty of still blacker perfidy, in accusing their general of the most atrocious crimes. THIS treachery obliged Albuquerque to defer the execution of his design for Ime time, till he had all the national troops at his command. As soon as he was appointed viceroy, he appeared before Ormus with so firing an armament, that a debauched court, and an effeminate people, finding it in vain to make any refit ance, were obliged to submit. The sovereign of Persia had the confidence to demand tribute of the conqueror. Albuquerque ordered some bullets, grenades, and sabres to be produced to the envoy, telling him, that this was the kind of tribute paid by the king of Portugal. AFTER this expedition, the power of the Portuguese was so firmly established in the Arabian and Persian gulphs, and on the Malabar coast, that they began to think of ex tending their conquests into the eastern parts of Asia. ALBUqVSEROUE's first attempt was the island of Ceylon, The Portus which is eighty leagues long, and thirty at its greatest goefeifor,a settlers breadth. It was anciently known by the name of Throat Ceylon. bane. We have no accounts transmitted to us of the re solutions it has undergone. All that history relates worthy of remark is, that the laws were formerly held in so high esteem, that the monarch was under the same obligation of observing them as the meanest of his fubjeas. If he violated them, he was condemned to death; with this mark of distinction however, that he did not sussex in an ignominious manner. He was denied all intercourse, all the comforts and supports of life : and, in this kind of ex communication, miserably ended his days.,F 4 Was
B O 0o K When the Portuguese landed in Ceylon they found it,,well peopled, and inhabited by two nations who diftelre,from each other in their manners, their government, ant their religion. The Bedas, who were settled in the northern parts of the island, where the country was leaf fertile, were distinguished into tribes, which considered themselves as so many families headed by a chief, whose power was not absolute. They go almost naked, and, upon the whole, their manners and government are the same with that of the Highlanders in Scotland. These tribes, who unite for the common defence, have always bravely fought for their liberty, and have never invaded those of their neighbours. Their religion is little known, and it is uncertain whether they have any worship. They haec little intercourse with strangers, keep a watchful eye over those who travel through the dilthifl they inhabit; they treat them well, and send them away as soon as possible This caution is owing in part to the jealousy the Bedas entertain of their wives, which contributes to estrange them from all the world. They seem to be the first inhabitants of the island. THE southern part is poflreffd by a more numerous and powerful people, called Cinglaffes. This nation is polite in comparison of the other. They wear clothes, and live under an arbitrary government. They have a distinction of cats, as well as the Indians; but their religion is different They acknowledge one supreme being, and in sub ordination to him divinities of the second and third order: all which have their priests. Among the deities of the fe conc order, particular honours are paid to Buddou, whe descended upon earth to take upon himself the office of mediator between God and mankind. The priests of Bud. don are persons of great consequence in Ceylon. The) are never punishable by the prince, even for an attempt against his life. The Cinglaffes understand the art of war. They know how to take advantage of the natural security
purity their mountains afford them against the attacks of B 0 0 I the Europeans, whom they have often conquered. Like all people in arbitrary states, they are deceitful, selfish, and full of compliment. They have two languages: one peculiar to the people, the other to the learned. Where ever this customs prevails, it furnished priests and princes with a further opportunity of imposing upon mankind. Born there nations enjoyed the benefits of the fruits, the corn, and the pasture which abounded in the island. They had elephants without number; precious stones, and the only kind of cinnamon that was ever deemed. On the northern coast, and or, the fishing coast which borders upon it, was carried on the greatest pearl finery in the east. The harbours of Ceylon were the belt in India, and its situation was superior to all its other ad. vantages. IT should seem to have been the interest of the Portuguese to have placed all their strength in this island. It lies in the center of the east: and is the passage that leads to the richest countries. All the ships that come from Europe, Arabia and Persia, cannot avoid paying a kind of homage to Ceylon; and the monsoons, which alternately blow from different points, make it easy for vessels to come in and go out at all seasons of the year. It might have been well peopled and fortified with little expence of blood and treasure. The numerous squadrons that might have been sent out from every port in the island would have kept all Asia in awe: and the Ships that might cruize in those latitudes, would have intercepted the trade of other nations. THe viceroy overlooked there advantages. He also ne glided the coast of Coromandel, though richer than that of Malabar. The merchandise of the latter was of an inferior quality: it produced plenty of provisions, a froall quantity of bad cinnamon, some pepper and cardamom, a kind of spice much used by the eastern people. Seacoast
B 0 0 K c oast of Coromandel furnished the finest cottons in the world. Its inhabitants, who for the most part were na times of the country, and had less intercourse with the Arabians and other nations, were the most humane and industrious of all the people in Hindostan. To this we may add, that the passage along the coast of Coromandel to wards the north, leads to the mines of Golconda: besides that, this coast is admirably situated for the trade of Bengal and other countries. NOTWITHSTANDING this, Albuquerque made no fettle ment there. The settlements of St. Thomas and Negapa- tan, were not formed till afterwards. He knew that this coast was destitute of harbours, and inaccessible at certain periods of the year, when it would be impossible for the fleets to protect the colonies. In (short, he thought that when the Portuguese had made themselves misers of Ceylon, a conquest begun by his predecessor d'Almeyda, and as towards completed, they might command the trade of Coromandel, if they got possession of Malacca. He there fore determined to make the attempt. Tlhcorm. THE country, of which Malacca is the capital city, is iIoo'°o- a narrow tract of land, about a hundred leagues in quer M?- lcc. length. It joins to the continent towards the northernmost, where it borders on the State of Siam, or, more properly, the kingdom of Johor, which has been separated from it. The rest is surrounded by the sea, and divided from the island of Sumatra by a channel which is called the Straits of Malacca. NATURE had amply provided for the happiness of the Malays, by placing them in a mild, healthy climate, where refreshing gales and cooling streams allay the fervour of the torrid zone; where the soil pours forth an abundance of delicious fruits to satisfy the wants of a savage life; and is capable of answering, by cultivation, all the necessary demands of society; where the trees wear an eternal verdure, and the flowers bloom in a perpetual sac.,celfon:
cession; where the most delicate and fragrant odours, B 0 o K breathing from aromatic plants, perfume the air, and infuse a spirit of voluptuous delight into all living beings. BuT while nature has done every thing in favour of the Malays, society has done them every possible injury. Such has been the influence of a tyrannical government, that the inhabitants of the happiest country in the universe, have become remarkable for the ferocity of their manners. The feudal system, which was first planned among the rocks and woods of the north, has extended itself even to the forests and mild regions of the equator, where every thing conspires to promote the enjoyment of a long life of tranquility, which can only be shortened by a too frequent and excessive indulgence in pleasures. This enslaved nation is under the dominion of an arbitrary prince, or rather of twenty tyrants, his representatives. Thus the despotism of a sultan has found means to extend its op preside influence to multitudes, by lodging its authority in the hands of numerous overgrown vassals. THIS turbulent and oppressive scene gave rise to an universal savageness of manners. In vain did heaven and earth shower their blessings upon Malacca; these blessings only served to make its inhabitants ungrateful and un happy. The mailers let out their services, or rather thole of their dependents for hire, to the best bidder, regard less of the loss that agriculture would sustain for want of hands. They preferred a wandering and adventurous life, either by sea or land to industry. This people had con queried a large Archipelago, well known in the east by the name of Malayan Islands. The numerous colonies that were transplanted thither, carried with them their laws, their manners, their customs, and what is somewhat remarkable, the softest language in all Asia. THE situation of Malacca had, however, made it the mols considerable market in India; its harbour was con faintly crouded with yeffcls either from Japan, China,,the
B 0 0 K the Philippine and Molucca Islands, and the adjacent [ i parts of the eastern coast; or from Bengal, Coromandcl,,Malabar, Persia, Arabia, and Africa. These merchants carried on a safe trade among themselves, or with the inhabitants; the Malays, who had been addicted to plunder, preferring a certain advantage to the precarious and uncertain success of piratical expeditions. THE Portuguese wanted to have a share in the general commerce of Asia. At first they appeared at Malacca in the character of merchants; but their usurpations in India rendered their designs so much suspected, and the animo city of the Arabians had circulated reports so much to the disadvantage of these conquerors, that measures were taken to destroy them. They sell into the snares thai were laid for them; several of them were massacred, and others thrown into prison. Those who escaped got back to their (hips, which retreated to the Malabar coast. TROUGH Albuquerque did not intend to wait for a rupture to afford him a pretence of seizing Malacca, he was not displeased at this incident, as it gave his enterprize an appearance of justice that might lessen the odium which such a step must naturally have drawn upon the Port guess name. As an impression so favourable to his view: Night be weakened by delay, he did not hesitate a mo. ment to take his revenge. The enemy expected a sud den blow; and accordingly, when he appeared before ths place, at the beginning of the year 15 1 , he found every thing in readiness to receive him. RUT formidable as these preparations appeared, then .was a still greater obstacle, which for orme days damped the valour of the christian general; his friend, AraCjo had been taken prisoner in the first expedition, and ths enemy threatened to put him to death the moment the siege hound begin. Albuquerque, who did not want fen ability, paused at the prospect of his friend's danger, wher he received the following billet. Think ofnotking but theglr,an
and advantage of Portugal; if I cannot contribute toward B o oK your victory, at leas let me not be e tt mans of presenting it. The place was attacked and carried after several doubtful, bloody, and obstinate engagements. They found in it immense treasure, vast magazines, and whatever could contribute to the elegancies and pleasures of life, and a fort was erected there to figure the conquest. As the Portuguese contented themselves with the posses sion of the city, the inhabitants, who professed a kind of corrupt Mohammedanism, and were unwilling to submit to their new masters, either retired into the inland parts, or dispersed themselves along the coast. Having lost the spirit of commerce, they relapsed into all the excesses of their violent character. These people never go without a poniard, which they call crit. The invention of this mur serous weapon seems to have exhausted all the powers of their sanguinary genius. Nothing is more to be dreaded than such men armed with such an instrument. When they get on board a vessel, they stab all the crew when they least fulpet any harm. Since their treachery has been known, all the Europeans take care never to employ a Malayan sailer; but there barbarians, who always made it a rule to attack the weaker party, have now changed this ancient custom, and, animated by an unaccountable resolution, to kill or be killed, come in boats with thirty men to board our vessels, and sometimes succeed in car dying them off: if they are repulsed, they have the satis faction at least of having imbrued their hands in blood. A PEOPLE who derives from nature such an inflexible bravery, may be exterminated, but not subdued by force. They are only to be civilized by humane treatment, the allurements of riches or liberty, the influence of virtue and moderation, and a mild government. They must be restored to their rights, or left to themselves, before we can hope to establish any intercourse with them. To at tempt to reduce them by conquest, is, perhaps; the last me-,thod 3
B 0 o K thod that should be tried: as it will only increase their, abhorrence of a foreign yoke, and discourage them from entering into any social engagements. Nature has placed certain people in the midas of the ocean, like lions in the deserts, that they may enjoy their liberty. Tempests, finds, forests, mountains and caverns, are the places of :cfuge and defence to all independent beings. Civilized nations should take care how they invade the rights, or rouze the spirits of islanders and savages: as they may be assured that they will become cruel and barbarous to no purpose; that their ravages will n,ake them detested; and that disgrace and revenge are the only laurels they can expel to obtain. AFTER the reduction of Malacca, the kings of Siam, Pegu, and several others, alarmed at a conquest so fatal to their independence, Lent ambassadors to congratulate Albuquerque, to make him an offer of their trade, and to desire an alliance with Portugal. Seulement AFFAIRS being in this situation, a squadron was de of the Pore reste nor tacked from the fleet to the Malacca. These islands, thetMalcca which lie in the Indian ocean near the equinoctial, are ilnds.,ten in number, including as usual, those of Banda. The largest is not more than twelve leagues in circumference, and the others are much smaller. IT is not known who were the first inhabitants; but it is pretty certain that the Savant and the Malays have successively been in possession of them. At the beginning of the sixteenth century, they were inhabited by a kind of savages, whose chiefs, though honoured with the title of kings, possessed only a limited authority, totally dependent on the caprice of their subjects. They had of late years, joined the superstitions of Mohammedanism to thole of Paganism, which they had professed for a considerable time. Their indolence was excessive. Their only em payment was hunting and fishing; and theywereftran- gers to all kind of agriculture. They were encouraged in,their
their inability by the advantages they derived from the B o0 0o cocoa-tree. THE cocoa is a tree whose roots are so slender and penetrate so little a way into the gronod, that it is frequently blown down by the wind. Its trunk, which riches to the height of thirty or forty feet, is straight, of a middling thickness, and every where of the same diameter. It is of so spungy a nature, that it is unfit for Ships timber, or for any building that requires solidity. The tuft is composed of ten or twelve leaves, which are large, long, and thick, and are made use of in covering the roofs of houses. From this tuft, which i: renewed thrice every year, at the same time arise very large buds, from each of which hang ten or twelve cocoa, which, in eluding their feels, are more than half a foot in diameter. The outer coat of the nut consists of filaments, which are fed for coarse stuffs, and flip cables. Of the next coat, which is very hard, are made small cups, and other domestic utensils. The inside of this shell is filled with a white firm pulp, from which is expressed an oil much used in the Indies. It is sweet, as long as it con tenues fresh, but it contracts a bitter taste when it is kept long, and is then only proper for burning. The sediment that remains in the press, affords nourishment for cattle, poultry, and even the lower kind of people in times of scarcity. The pulp of tile cocoa contains a liquid which is extremely refreshing, and quenches the thirst of labouring people both at sea and land. This liquor is very wholesome, but has a sweet insipid rate. WHEN those buds are cut at the extremity, vessels are placed to receive the white liquor that distils from them: which if drawn off before sun-rise, and drunk while it is fresh, has the flavour of sweet wine. It afterwards turns four, and makes good vinegar. When distilled in its high etc perfection, it produces a firing brandy: and boiled with quicklime, yields a middling kind ,sugar. The,. . ~~~~~~~~~~~trcot
3 0 0 tr Us from which this liquor has been extracted, bear no, fruit; the juices being exhausted, which serve to produce and nourish the kernel. BessIDs this tree, which is common in all parts of India, the Malacca produce a singular. plant, which they call sago. This tree affords a nutriment from its trunk and vital substance: its fruit being a superfluous and useless part. It grows wild in the forests, and multiplies itself by feeds and suckers. It riles to the height of thirty feet, and is about fix in circumference. The bark is an inch thick. The inner rind is composed of an assemblages long fibres which are interlaced with each other. This double coat contains a kind of Cap or gum, which falls into meal. This tree, which seems to grow purely for the use of man, points out the meal by a fine white powder which covers its leaves, and is a certain sign of the ma purity of the sago. It is then cut down to the root, and fawn into scantlings, which are divided into four quarters, for the better extracting of the sap or meat it contains. After this substance has been diluted in water, it is strained through a kind of sieve, which retains the grosser par. titles; the rest Is thrown into earthen motives, where il dries and hardens for some years. The Indians eat the sago diluted with water, and sometimes baked or boiled. Through a principle of humanity, they reserve the finest part of this meal for the aged and infirm. A jelly i sometimes made of it, which is white and of a delicious! flavour. TEMPERATE, independent, and averse from labour, their people had lived for ages upon the meal of the sago, and the milk of the cocoa, when the Chinese landing by-ac. cedent at the Malacca, discovered the clove and the nut meg, with which valuable spices the ancients were entirely) unacquainted. They were soon admired all over the Indies, from whence they were transported to Persia ane Europe. The Arabians who at that time engrossed alios, 1
alt the trade of the universe, did riot overlook so lucas B 0 0 K time a part of it. They repaired in crowds to these celebrated islands, whole productions they had already in monopolized, had hot the Portuguese, who pursed them every where, deprived them bs this branch of trade. Not withstanding the schemes that were laid to supplant there conquerors, they obtained permission to build a fort. From this time the court of Lisbon tanked the Malacca among the number of their provinces, and it was not long before they became such in reality. WHII.E Albuquerque's lieutenants enriched their country with the new productions of the raft, their general cori- plttd the conquest of Malabar, which would have taken advantage of his absence to recover its liberty. After his late success he employed the leisure he enjoyed in the midst of his conquests, in suppressing the licentiousness of the Portuguese; establishing order in all the colonies; and regulating the discipline of the army: in the course of which he displayed an activity, sagacity, wisdom, jiftict, humanity, and disinterestedness, which did honour to his character. His good qualities made so deep an impression on the minds of the Indians, that, for a long time after his death, they continued to repair to his tomb to demand justice for the outrages committed by his successors. He died at Goa in the yeas 1Sii5, without riches, and out of favour with Emanuel, who had been prevailed upon to entertain suspicions of his conduct. IF our astonishment is raised at the number of Albuquer. Threrfcs que'g victories, and the rapidity of lis conquests, how lf.othgI'.r deservedly do those brave men claim our admiration, whom r',t , the he had the honour to command in there expeditions ? Did PorugCT. any hafion, with so lender a force, ever perform such great avons? The Portuguese, with less than forty thousand troops, struck terror into the empire of Morocco, the bar barons nations of Africa, the lMammelucs, the Arabians, and all the eastern countries from the island of Ormus to VOL. 1. G China.
B 0 0 K China. With a force in the proportion of one to a hun. 1. died, they engaged troops, which, when attacked by an,enemy of equal strength, would frequently defend their lives and possessions to the last extremity. What kind of men then must the Portuguese have been, and what extra ordinary causes must have conspired to produce a nation of heroes! Ther had been at war with the Moors near a century, when Henry of Burgundy, with several French knights landed in Portugal with a design to serve in Castile un der the famous Cid, whose reputation had drawn them thither. The Portuguese invited them to lend their assist ance against the infidels; the knights complied, and the greatest part of them fettled in Portugal. Chivalry, which has contributed as much as any other institution to exalt human nature; substituting the love of glory for the love of our country; that refined spirit drawn from the dregs of the barbarous ages, and calculated to repair or lessen the errors and inconveniences of the feudal government from whence it took its rise; at that time revived on the banks of the Tagus, in all the splendor it had at its first ap appearance in France and England. The princes endeavoured to keep it alive, and to extend its influence by establishing several orders formed upon the plan of the ancient ones, and calculated to infuse the same spirit, which was a mixture of heroism, gallantry, and devotion. THa sovereigns raised the spirit of the nation still higher by treating the nobility in some pleasure upon a footing of equality, and by setting bounds to their own authority. They frequently assembled their states general, without which, properly speaking, there can be no nation. By these states Alphonfo was invested with the regal authority after the taking of Lilbon; and in conjunction with them, his successors, for a long time, exercised the power of making laws. Many of there laws were calculated to inspire the hove of great actions. The order of nobility,was
was conferred upon those who had distinguished them B o0 K selves by signal services; by killing or taking prisoner - .;, the enemy's general, or his squire; or by refusing to pur chafe their liberty, when in the hands of the Moors, by renouncing their religion. On the other hand, whoever insulted a woman, gave false evidence, broke his promise, or " disguised the truth to his sovereign," was deprived cf his rank. THE wars waged by the Portuguese in defence of their rights and liberties, were at the same time religious wars. They partook of that fierce, yet enterprizing fanaticism, which the popes had encouraged at the time of the cru fades. The Portuguese, therefore, were knights armed in defence of their properties, their wives, their children ind their kings, who were knights as well as themselves. Besides these, they were the heroes of the crusade, who, in defending christianity were fighting for their country, To this may be added, that the nation was small, and its )over extremely limited; it being chiefly in little states hat we find that enthusiastic fondness for their country, which is utterly unknown in larger communities, that en oy a greater security. THE principles of activity, vigour, and a noble elevation of mind, which united in the character of this la ion, were not lost after the expulsion of the Moors. ?iiey pursued there enemies of their religion and govern near into Africa. They were engaged in federal wars with the kings of Castile and Leon; and during the interval that preceded their expeditions to India, the no ility lived at a distance from cities and the court, and reserved in their castles the virtues of their ancestors, together with their portraits. WHEN the plan of extending their conquests in Africa nd Asia became the object of attention among the Portuguese a new passion co-operated with the principles if mentioned, to give additional energy to the Portu-,G 2 guess
B 0 o0 K guess spirit. This passion, which however it might animate dl the rest for the present, would soon destroy the generosity of their temper, was avarice. The vessels were crowded with adventurers, who wanted to enrich them. selves, serve their country, and make proselytes. They appeared in India to be something more than men till the death of Albuquerque. Then riches, which were the object and reward of their conquests, introduced an universal corruption. The nobler passions gave way to the pleasures of luxury, which never fail to enervate the body, and to destroy the virtues of the mind. The weak successors of the illustrious Emanuel, and the men of mean abilities, which he himself sent as viceroys to the Indies, gradually contributed to the degeneracy ol the Portuguese. LoPEz-soared, however, who succeeded Albuquerque, pursued his designs. He abolished a barbarous culfon that prevailed in the country of Travancore, in the neigh. boyhood of Calicut. These people consulted sorcerers concerning the destiny of their children: If the magician promised a happy destiny, they were suffered to live, i he foretold any great calamities that were to befal them they were put to death. Soared interposed to prefer their children. He was for rome time employed in pre venting this opposition with which the Portuguese wen threatened in India; and as loon as he was relieved from his anxiety, he resolved to attempt a passage to China; Arrnl of THE great Albuquerque had formed the same design ' tef"C n He had met with Chinese ships and merchants at Malacca Cher and conceived a high opinion of a nation, whose ver,opst'1 sailors had more politeness, a better sense of decorum,more good nature and humanity, than were, at that time to be found among the European nobility. He invites the Chinese to continue their commerce with Malacca From them he procured a particular account of th strength, riches, and manners of their extensive empyrean
and communicated his intelligence to the court of Port O O K tubal. THE Chinese nation was utterly unknown in Europe. Mark Paul, a Venetian, who had travelled to China by land, had given a description of it which was looked upon as fabulous. It corresponded, however, with the parti culars since transmitted by Albuquerque. Credit was given to this officer's testimony, and to his account of the lucrative trade that might be carried on in this country. IN the year 1518 a squadron failed from Lilbon to carry over n ambassador. As soon as it arrived at the islands in the neighbourhood of Canton, it was surrounded by Chinese vessels, which came to reconnoitre it. Ferdinand D'Andreade, who commanded it, did not attempt to defend himself: he suffered the Chinese to come on board; com mutilated the object of his voyage to the Mandarins that presided at Canton, and sent his ambassador on shore, who was conduced to Pekin. THIS ambassador was every moment presented with some new wonder, that struck him with amazement. If we consider the largeness of towns, the multitude of vil 'sages, the variety of canals, of which some are navigable across the empire, and others contribute to the fertility of the soil: the art of cultivating their lands, and the abundance and variety of their productions, the sagacious and mild asper of the inhabitants, the perpetual interchange of good offices which appeared in the country, and on the publick roads, and the good order preserved among rhode numberless clouds who were engaged in the hurry of business we shall not wonder at the surprize of the Portuguese ambassador, who had been accustomed to the barbarous and ridiculous manners of Europe. LET us take a short view of this people. The history of a nation so well governed, is the history of men: the rest cf the world resembles the chaos of matter before it was wrought into form. After a long series of devastations 3 Society
B 0 0 K society has at length risen to order and harmony. States, and nations are produced from each other, like individuals with this difference, that in families nature brings about the death of rome, and provides for the births of others, in a constant and regular succession: but in states, this rule is violated and destroyed by the disorders of society, where it sometimes happens that ancient monarchies lisle rising republics in their births, and that a rune and fa. wage people, rushing like a torrent, sweep away multitudes of fates, which are disunited and broken in pieces. CHm::A alone has been exempted from this fatality. This empire, bounded on the north by Ruffian Tartary, on the south by the Indies, by Tibet on the weft, and by the ocean on the east, comprehends almost all the cafRcrn extremity of the continent of Asia. It is eighteen hundred leagues in circumference. It is said to have lasted through a successive series of four thousand years, nor is this antiquity at all to be wondered at. The narrow bounds of our history, and the small extent of our king. dons, which rise and fall in a quick succession, are the consequence of war', superstition, and the unfavourable circumstances of our situation. But the Chinese, who are encompassed and defended on all sides by seas and deserts, have, like the ancient Egyptians, given a passing liability to their empire. Since their coasts, and the inland parts of their territories have been peopled and cultivated, this happy nation must of course have been the center of at traction to all the surrounding people; and the wandering or cantoned tribes muff necessarily have gradually attached themselves to a body of men, who speak less frequently of the rcrnqucfts they have made, than of the attacks they have ushered; and are happier in the thought of having civilized their conquerors, than they could have been in that of having destroyed their invaders. IN a country where the government is so ancient, we may every where expect to find deep traces of the continued,force
force of industry. The plains have been levelled with the B 0 0 K extent care; and, in general, have no greater declivity a than is necessary to facilitate the watering of the land, which they consider, with reason, as one of the greatest helps in agriculture. They have but few, even of the most useful trees, as their fruits would rob the corn of its nourishment. There are gardens, it is true, inter aspersed with flowers, fine turf, shrubberies, and fountains; but however agreeable these scenes might be to an idle operator, they seem to be concealed and removed from the public eye, as if the owners were afraid of shewing how much their amusements had encroached upon the soil that ought to be cultivated for the support of life. They have no parks or extensive forests, which are not near so ser viceable to mankind by the wood try furnish, as prejudicial by preventing agriculture; and while they contribute to the pleasure of the great by the bears that range in them, prove a real misfortune to the husbandman. In China, the beauty of a country-seat consist in its being happily situated, surrounded with an agreeable variety of cultivated fields, and interspersed with trees planted irregularly and with some mounts of a porous stone, which at a distance have the appearance of rocks or mountains. THE hills are generally cut into terraces, supported by dry walls. Here they have reservoirs, construed with ingenuity, for the reception of rain and spring water. It is not uncommon to see the bottom, summit and declivity *of a hill watered by the same canal, by means of a num ber of engines of a simple construction, which save ma null labour, and perform with two men what could not be done with a thousand in the ordinary way. These heights commonly yield three crops in a year. They first sow a kind of radii, which produces an oil, then cotton, and after that potatoes. This is the common method of cul dirt; but this rule is not without exceptions Prob
O 0 K UPON most of the mountains which are incapable of,I- being cultivated for the ufc of man, proper trees are planted for building houses or ships. Many of them contain iron, tin and copper mines, sufficient to supply the empire. The gold mines have been neglected, either because their produce did not defray the expence of working them, or because the gold dust, washed down by the torrents, was found sufficient for the purposes of exchangeable sandy plains, saved from the ravages of the ocean, which changes its bed as rivers do their course, in a space of time so exactly proportioned to their different moments, that a small encroachment of the Tea, causes a thousand revolutions on the fierce of the globe, form, at this day, the provinces of Nankin and Techekiang, which are the finest in the empire. As the Egyptians checked the course of the Nile, the Chinese have ravished, restrained, and given laws to the ocean. They have re-united to the continent, tracts of land which had been disjoined by the element. They fRill exert their endeavours to oppose that over-ruling effect of the earth's motion, which pro truces the ocean from east to weft. To the movements of the globe, the Chinese oppose the efforts of industry: and while nations, the most celebrated in history, have, by the rage of conquest, increased the ravages that time is perpetually making upon this globe; they use such efforts to retard the progress of universal devastation, as might appear supernatural, if daily experience did not afford us strong evidence to the contrary. To the improvements upon land, this nation adds, if we may be allowed the expression, the improvement of the water. The rivers, which communicate with each other by canals, and run under the walls of molt of the towns, present us with the prospect of floating cities, composed of an infinite number of boats filled with people, who live constantly upon the water, and whose sole em-employment
payment is filling. The tea itself is covered with barks, B O K whose masts, at a distance, appear like moving forests. Anson finds fault with the fishermen belonging to there boats, for not giving themselves a moment's intermission from their work to look at his flip, which was the largest that had ever appeared in these latitudes. But this inattention to an objet, which appeared to a Chinese sailor to be of no use, though it was in the way of his profession, is, perhaps, a proof of the happiness of a people, who prefer business to matters of mere curiosity. THE manner of culture is by no means uniform through out this empire, but varies according to the nature of the soil and the difference of the climate. In the low countries towards the south they sow rice, which being always under water, grows to a great size, and yields two crops in a year. In the inland parts of the country, where the situation is lofty and dry, the soil produces a species of rice, which is neither so large, well-tasted, or nourishing, and makes the husbandman but one return in the year for his labour. In the northern parts they cultivate the same kinds of grain as in Europe, which grow in as great plenty, and are of as good a quality as in any of our most fertile countries. From one end of China to the other, there are large quantities of vegetables, particularly in the South, where that and fill supply the place of meat, which i; the general food of the other provinces. But the improvement of lands is universally understood an attended to. All the different kinds of manure are care fully preserved, and skilfully distributed to the best advantage and that which arises from fertile lands, is applied to make them fill more fertile. This grand system of nature, which is sustained by destruction and re-produce tion, is better understood and attended to in China than in any other country in the world. A Philosopher, whom the (spirit of observation has led into their empire, has found out and explained tht causes of the rural economy of the Chinese.,THE
B 0 0 K THE first of there causes is that character of industry 1 by which this nation is particularly distinguished, andes one of those, which in its nature requires a less share of repose. Every day in the year is devoted to la your, except the first, which is employed in paying and receiving visits among relations; and the last, which is sacred to the memory of their ancestors. The first is a facial duty, the latter a part of domestic worship. In this nation of sages, whatever unites and civilizes mankind is religion, and religion itself is nothing more than the practice of the social virtues. These sober and rational people want nothing more than the controul of civil laws to make them just; their private worship consists in the love of their parents whether living or dead; and their public worship in the love of labour; and that labour which is held in the most sacred veneration is agriculture. THE generosity of two of their emperors is much re vexed, who, preferring the interests of the state to those of their family, kept their own children from the throne to make room for men taken from the plow. They re vere the memory of these husbandmen, who rowed the :reds of the happiness and stability of the empire in the fertile bosom of the earth; that inexhaustible source of whatever conduces to the nourishment, and consequently to the numbers of mankind. IN imitation of these royal husbandmen, the emperors of China become husbandmen officially. It is one of their public functions to break up the ground in the spring; and the parade and magnificence that accompanies this ceremony, draws together all the farmers in the neighbourhood of the capital. They flock in clouds to see their prince perform this solemnity in honour of the first of all the arts. It is not, as in the fables of Greece, a god, who tends the flocks of a king; it is the father of his people, who, holding the plow with his own hands, shews his children v.hat are the true riches of the state. In little
little time he repairs again so the field he has ploughed B 0 0 C himself, to sow the feed that is most proper for the ground. The example of the prince is followed in all the pro vices; and at the same seasons, the viceroys repeat the same ceremonies in the presence of a numerous concourse of husbandmen. The Europeans, who have been pre sent at this solemnity at Canton, never speak of it with out emotion; and make us regret that this festival, whole political aim is the encouragement of labour, is not established in our climate, instead of that number of religious feasts, which seem to be invented by idleness to make the country a barren waste. IT is not to be imagined, however, that the court of Pekin are really engaged in the labours of a rural life. The arts of luxury are grown to so great a height in China, that there performances can only pass for mere ceremonies. But the law which obliges the prince to low this token of refpea to the profession of husbandmen, has a tendency to promote the advantage of agriculture. The deference paid by the sovereign to public opinions con tributes to perpetuate it; and the influence of opinion is the principal spring that actuates the political machine. THIS influence is preserved in China by conferring ho hours on all husbandmen, who excel in the cultivation of the ground. When any useful discovery is made the au thor of it is called to court to communicate it to the prince; and is sent by government into the provinces, to instruct them in his method. In a word, in this country where nobility is not hereditary, but a mere personal reward indiscriminately bestowed upon merit; several of the magistrates and persons raised to the highest employ ments in the empire are chosen out of families who are solely employed in the cultivation of land. THESE encouragements which belong to their manners, are further seconded by the best political institutions. Whatever is in its nature incapable of being divided, as thes sea,
B 0 o K sea, rivers, canals, &c. is enjoyed in common, and is no.,,body's property. Every one has the liberty of going upon the water, fishing, and hunting; and a subject who is in possession of an estate, whether acquired by himself or left by his relations, is in no danger of having his right called in question by the tyrannical authority of the feudal laws the smallness of the taxes is still a farther encourage ment to agriculture. Till lately, the proportion paid to government out of the produce of the lands, was from a tenth down to a thirtieth part of the income, according to the quality of the soil. This was the only tribute le vied in China. The leading men never entertained a thought of increasing it; not venturing to push a point of this nature in opposition to custom and opinion, which determine every thing in this empire. Some emperors and ministers, no doubt, would have been glad to attempt an innovation of this kind; but as fitch an undertaking would require time, and they could not hope to live to see its success, they did not choose to engage in it. Men of bad principles aim at immediate enjoyment, while the virtuous subject extending his benevolence beyond the present generation, contents himself with forming designs, and propagating useful truths, without expecting to reap any advantage from them in his own person. IT is but lately that conquest and commerce have intro duce new taxes into China. The Tartar emperors have laid a duty upon certain articles of provisions, metals, and merchandise. In short, if we may believe the Jesuit Amyot, customs are established there as well as in Europe. IT were to be wished, that the Europeans would imitate the Chinese in the mode of levying their taxes; which is just, humane, and not expensive. Every year, at the time of harvest, the fields are measured, and rated in proportion to their actual produce-whether the Chi r.efe are as dishonest as they are represented, or whether,they
they are only faithless and deceitful in their dealings, with B 0 0 K strangers, as several nations among the ancients, I Shall not take upon me to determine; but it should seem that government reposes considerable confidence in them, as they are not teized and molested by those searchings and troublesome visits, so common in the mode of taxation in Europe, The only penalty inclined on per, sons liable to be taxed, and who are too flow in the pay ment of the tribute demanded by the public, is to quarter old, infirm, and poor people upon them, toe maintained at their expence till they have discharged the debt due to government. This manner of proceeding has a tendency to awaken pity and humanity in the breast of a citizen, when he fees miserable objects, and hears the cries of hunger; instead of giving disgust, and exciting his re sentient by forcible seizures and the menaces of an info lent soldiery, who come to live at discretion in a house exposed to the numberless extortions of the exchequer. IN China, the taxes are levied without having recourse to those oppressive methods that are praised in Europe. The mandarins take the tenth part of the produce of the earth in kind. The officers in the municipal towns give in their account of this tribute and all other taxes to the receiver-general of the province; and the whole is lodged in the public treasury. The use that is made of this re venue prevents all frauds in collecting it: as it is well known, that a part of these duties is allotted for the maintenance of the magistrates and soldiers. The money arising from the sale of this proportion of the produce of the lands is never issued from the exchequer but in public exigencies. It is laid up in the magazines against times of scarcity, when the people receive, what they lent, as it were, in times of plenty. IT may naturally be expected that a nation, enjoying so many advantages, will be extremely populous: especially in a climate where, whatever reason may be alligned,for
B 0O0 I for it, the women are remarkably prolific, and the meted no injury to the natural vigour of their constitution by the use of wrong liquors; where the weather is whole some and temperate, and few children die in proportion to the numbers born: where the soil overpays the labour of cultivating it, not to mention their simple anti plain manner of living, which is regulated by the miracle economy Ths Jesuit, however, who were employed by the court ds Pekin to make charts of the empire, in the course of their undertaking, discovered some considerable trash of desert land, which had escaped the notice of the mer chants who frequented only the sea-ports, and of travel hers who went only by the road of Canton to the capital. Ir would be impossible to account for the want of po pulsation in some countries remote from China, if it were not known, that, in these extensive states, a great num ber of children are destroyed soon after they are born that several of thos who escape this cruel fate, suffer the most shameful mutilation: and of those who are not thus barbarously robbed of their sex, many are reduced to a state of slavery, and deprived of the comforts of marriage by tyrannical masters: that polygamy, so contrary to reason and the spirit of society, is universally practised that the vice which nature rejects with the utmost abhor hence, is very common; and that the converts of the Bonzes contain little less than a million of persons devoted to celibacy. BuT if a few scattered cantons, which are hardly known even in China, be destitute of hands to cul tivate them; are there not many more in which men are assembled in such numbers as to incommode each other? This inconvenience is observable in the neigh boyhood of great cities and public roads, and par circularly in the southern provinces. Accordingly it ap-spears,
pears, by the records of the empire, that a bad harvey B o o K has seldom failed to produce an insurrection. We need go no further to find the reafotia which prevent deF)otifin from making any advances in China. It is evident from there frequent revolutions, t tt the people are fully sensible that a regard to the rights of property, and fiubmilnlon to the laws, arc duties of a lower last, subordinate to the original rights of nature, and that communities are formed for the common benefit of those who enter into them. Accordingly, when the more immediate ieccflrics of life fail, the Chinese cease to acknowledge an authority which does not provide for their subsistence. The right of kings is founded on the regard they pay to the preservation of the people. Neither religion nor morality teach any other doCtrine in China. THe emperor is well aware, that lie presides over a people who submit to the laws no longer than while they promote their happiness. He is febrile, that if the spirit of tyranny, which is so common and infectious in other countries, should seize him but for a moment, such a violent opposition would he raised, that he would be driven from the throne. Accordingly, finding himself invited with the supreme authority by a people who ,serve and criticise his conduct, he is far from attempting to make himself a religious phantom, and doing jut as lie pleases. lie does not violate the sacred contrast, by virtue of which he holds the sceptre, Sie is convinced that the people are so well acquainted with their rights, and the manner of defending them, that whenever a province complains of the Mandarin that governs it, he recalls him without examination and delivers him up to a tribunal, which pro deeds against him if he is in fault: but should he even prove innocent, he is not reinstated in hi. employment, as it is deemed a crime to have drawn upon bimfelfthe resentment of the people. He is considered as an ignorant tutor, who should attempt to prevent children from entertaining
B 0 0 K gaining the affection which they owe to their father. Tlhh,, compliance, which, in other countries, would nourish perpetual discontent, and occasion an infinite number of in. tribes, is not attended with any inconvenience in China where the inhabitants are naturally disposed to be mild and just, and the constitution of the state is so ordered that its delegates have seldom any rigorous commands ta execute the necessity of justice in the prince tends to make hill more wise and intelligent. He is in China what or!c would gladly believe princes in all countries were, the ido of his people. It should feet that their manners and lass conspired to establish this fundamental principle, tha China is a family of which the emperor is the patriarch He does not possess his authority as a conqueror, or legislator, but as a father: as a father he governs, rewards and punishes. This pleating sentiment gives him a greate power than the tyrants of other nations can possibly deriv from the number of their troops, or the artifices ofthel ministers. It is not to be imagined what esteem and affection the Chinese have for their emperor, or, as the express it, their common, their universal father. THIS public worship is founded upon that which is eth lifted by private education. Ill China, the father ati mother claim an absolute right over their children a every period bs life, even when raised to the highest dig city. Paternal authority, and filial affection, are th sources of every thing in this empire: by this the manner are regulated, and it is the grand tie that unites the prince to his 'subjects, the subjects to their prince, and citizens t one another. The Chinese government has gradually ai rived at that point of perfection, from which all others fees to have finally and irrevocably degenerated. I mean th patriarchal government, a government established b nature itself.,NOT
Notwithstanding this sublime system of morals, B 00 K that for so many ages has contributed to the prosperity [ of the Chinese empire, it would probably have experienced an insensible change, if the chimerical distinctions allowed to birth had not destroyed that original equality established by nature among mankind, and which ought only to give place to superior abilities, and superior merit. In all the states of Europe, one class of men assise from their infancy a preeminence independent of their moral character. The attention paid them from the moment of their birth, gives them the idea that they are formed for command; they soon learn to consider themselves as a lifting species, and being secure of a certain rank and station, take no pains to make themselves worthy of it. THIS system, to which we owe so many indifferent mi sisters, ignorant magistrates, and bad generals, has no place in China, where nobility does not descend by here diary right. The figure any citizen makes, begins and ends with himself. The son of the prime minister of the empire has no advantages at tile moment of his birth, but those he may have derived from nature. The rank of nobility is sometimes conferred upon the ancestors of a man who has done signal services to his country; but this mark of dillinr.ion, which is merely personal, dies with its possessor: and his children derive no other advantage from it than the memory and example of his virtues. Ia consequence of this perfect equality, the Chinese are enabled to establish an uniform system of education, and to inculcate correspondent principles. It is no difficult talk to persuade men who are upon an equal footing by birth, that they are all brethren. This opinion gives them every advantage which would be lost if a contrary dea prevailed. A Chinese, who Should abstract himself 'romnthis common fraternity, would become a solitary and miserable being; and wander as a stranger in the heart of lis country. VOL. I. I Instead
B O 0 K Instead of those frivolous distinctions, which are al-blotted to birth in almost every other country, the Chinese substitute real ones, founded entirely on personal merit. A set of wise and intelligent men, who are honoured with the title of the learned mandarins, devote themselves to the study of all sciences necessary to qualify them for the administration of public affairs. None can be admitted into this respectable society, who are not recommended by their talents and knowledge: for riches give no claim to this honour. The mandarins are at their option to fix upon proper persons to associate with them; and they never chuse any person without a previous and strip examination There are different classes of mandarins, the succession to which is regulated by merit, and not by fe minority. OUT of the class of mandarins, the emperor, according to a custom as ancient as the empire, elects ministers, magistrates, governors of provinces, and officers of every denomination, who are called to any employment in the tate. As his choice can only fall upon men of tried abilities the welfare of the people is always lodged in the hands of those who are worthy of such a trust. Is consequence of this institution, no dignity is hereditary except that of the crown; and even that is not always conferred on the elder: son; but to him whom the emperor and the council of mandarins judge most worthy. By this method, a spirit of virtuous emulation prevails even in the imperial family. The throne is given to merit alone, and it is assigned to the heir only in consideration of his abilities. The emperors rather chuse to appoint a successor from a d',-re:nt family, than to intrust the reins of government to inikilfui hands. The viceroys and magistrates enjoy the affection of the people, at the ir,' e time that they partake of the author. city of the verciign; and any mistakes in their administration met i!!h the f:;r.e i.dulgcne that is known ta,thole
Chose of the supreme legislator. They have not that ten B 0 0 K 'deny to sedition which prevails in this pant of the world. v In China there is no set of men to form or manage a sac tion; as the mandarins have no rich and powerful family connexions, they can derive no support but from the crown, and their own prudence. They are trained up in a way of thinking that inspires humanity, the love of order, beneficence, and respect for the laws. They take pains to inculcate there sentiments into the people, and secure their attachment to every law, by shewing them its useful tendency. The sovereign passes no edit that does not convey some moral or political intrusion. The people necessarily become acquainted with their interests, and the measures taken by government to promote them; and the better informed they are, the more likely they will be to remain quiet. SUPERsTTrloN, which excites disturbances in all other countries, and either establishes tyranny, or overthrows government, has no influence in China. It is tolerated, injudiciously, perhaps, by the laws: but, at least, it never makes laws itself. No person can have any share in the government who does not belong to the class of literati, which admits of no superstition. The bonzes are not al lowed to ground the duties of morality upon the doctrines of their sets, nor consequently to dispense with them. If they impose upon some part of the nation, their artifices do not asset those whose example and authority are of the greatest importance to the state. Confucius, in whose nations and discourses precept was joined to example, and whose memory and doctrine are equally embraced and revered by all classes and seas whatsoever, was the founder of the national religion of China. His code contains a system of natural law, which ought to be the ground-work of ail religions, the rule of society, and standard of all governments. He taught that reason was an emanation of the Deity; and that the fu-,H z prime
B o 0 K prime law confined in the harmony between nature anderson. The religion that runs in opposition to these two guides of human life, does not come from heaven. As the Chinese have no term for God, they say that heaven is God. But, says the emperor Chang-chi, in an edit published in 17 c, it is :ct. to the visible and marian savten khat we off our sacrifices, but to the Lord qo Heaven. Thus atheism, though not uncommon in China, is not publicly professed. It is neither the characteristic of a feet, nor an objet of persecution; but is tolerated as well as superstition. THE emperor, who is sole pontiff, is likewise the judge in matters of religion; but as the national worship wa! made for the government, not the government for it; ane as both were designed to be subservient to the ends o society, it is neither the interest nor inclination of th( sovereign to employ the two-fold authority lodged in hi hands, for the purposes of oppression. If on the one han the doctrines and ceremonies of the hierarchy do not pre vent the prince from making an ill use of absolute author airy; he is more powerfully restrained on the other, by th, general insolence of the national manners.,ANT attempt to change these manners woud be attend ed with the greatest difficulty, because they are incur dated by a mode of education which is, perhaps, the bel :e are acquainted .with. Th ey do nut make a point o strutting their children till they are five years old. Ths haec then ltaght to write words or hieroglyphics, which represent sensible oljec,, of which at the same time the endeavour t gve o them c!car idea . Afterwards thei men;sor.3' is f-er with deleterious verses containing pr. ccr:ts of rnicr! ty, wiicli they are taught to reduce t pr.i:cce. ?.5' they advance in wars they arc instruct i; the phocis ,ply of Confucius. This is the manner 0 edcaio^tn a:r.crng .th ordicr.ay ranks. The children wll are dci.find r p.Ts of honour, begin in the same manner
ner; but intermix other studies relative to human con B o o K du in the different stations of life. IN China, the manners take their complexion from the laws, and are preserved by common usage, which are like wise prescribed by the laws. The Chinese have a greater number of precepts, relating to the most common actions, than any other people in the world. Their code of po liteness is very voluminous; the lowest citizen is intruded in it, and observes it with the same c,:xacnefs as the man marines and the court. THE laws in this code, like all the rest, are formed with a view of keeping tip the opinion that China is but one great family, and of promoting that regard and mu tuas affection in the citizens, which is due to each other as brethren. These rights and customs tend to prefer the manners. Sometimes, indeed, ceremonies are substituted for sentiment; but how often are they tile means of reviving it! They compose a kind of constant homage that is paid to virtue; and is calculated to engage the attention of youth. It prefi:rcs the refpeA due to virtue her self; and if it sometimes leads to hypocrisy, it encourages a laudable zeal. Tribunals are erected to take cognizance of transgressions against the customs; as well as to illicit crimes and reward merit. Moderate penalties arc ins scil upon crimes, and virtue is distinguished by marks es honour. Honour is accordingly one of the principles that actuate the Chinese government: and though it i, not the leading one, operates more strongly than scam. and more feebly than affection. Under the influence of such institutions, one fIceuld cx- pea, that China would be the country in the whole world, where men would be most humane. Accordingly li c humanity of the Chinese is conspicuous on those occasion, where it should seem, that virtue could have no oilier ,object but justice; and that justice could not Le executed without severity. Their prisoners are confined in neat ands; 3 rcclnn.-
B O o K commodious apartments, where they are well taken cares of even to the moment when they sussex. It frequently happens, that the only punishment inflicted on a rich man amounts to no more than obliging him for a certain time to maintain or clothe some old men and orphans at his own expence. Our moral and political romances, form the real history of the Chinese, who have regulated all the actions of men-with such an exact nicety, that they have scarcely any need of sentiment. Yet they do not fail to cultivate the latter in order to give a proper estimation to the former the spirit of patriotism, that spirit, without which fates are mere colonies, and not nations, is stronger, perhaps, and more active among the Chinese, than it is found in any republic. It is common to see them voluntarily contributing their labour to repair the public roads: the rich build places of Shelter upon them for the ufe'of travellers; others plant trees there. Such actions, which are proofs of a beneficent humanity rather than an often nation of generosity, are far from being uncommon in China. THERE have been times, when they have been frequent and others, when they have been less so; but the corruption which was the cause of the latter, brought on a revolution, and the manners of the people were reformed. 1 hey suffered by the late invasion of the Tartars: they are now recovering in proportion, as the princes of that vico pious nation lay aisle the superstitions of their own country, to adopt the principles of the nation they have con queried ; and in proportion as they improve in the know ledge of those books, which the Chinese call canonical. JT cannot be Ioiig before we see the amiable character of ths; nation entirely revived; that fraternal, and ki.,- tired principle; those enchanting social ties, which soften the manners cf the people, and attach them inviolably to the la. s Poii;-cal errors and vices cannot take deep,root
root in a country where they never promote any men to B O O K public employments, but such as are of the set of the J learned, whose sole occupation is to instruct themselves in the principles of morality and government. As long as real knowledge shall be held in estimation, as long as it shall continue to lead to public honours, there will exist among the people of China a fund of reason and virtue, which will not be found among other nations. IF this piaure of the manners of the Chinese should be different from that drawn by other writers, it is not, perhaps, impossible to reconcile opinions so seem singly contradictory. China may be considered in two distinct points of view. If we Study the inhabitants as they appear in the sea-ports, and great towns, we Ihall be disgusted at their cowardice, knavery and avarice: but in the other parts of the empire, particularly in the country we stall find their manners domestic, social and patriotic. It would be difficult to point out a more virtuous, humane, and intelligent people's must, however, be acknowledged, that the greatest part of those improvements, which depend upon theories at all complicated, are not f, far advanced there, as one Should naturally cxpea from an ancient, active, and diligent people, who have To long had a clue to them. But this riddle is not inexplicable. The Chinese language requires a long and laborious study, scarcely to be com pretended within the term of a man's life. The rites and ceremonies, which they observe upon every occasion, afford more exercise for their memory than their sensibility Their manners are calculated to check the impulses of the foul, and weaken its operations. 'Io much taken up in the pursuit of what is useful, they have no opportunity of launching out into the extensive regions of imagination. An excessive veneration for antiquity, makes them the slaves of whatever is established. All there cares united. must necessarily have flushed, among the Chiefs. the,11 + 'limit
B O 0 K spirit of invention. It requires ages with them to bring, any thing to perfection; and whoever reflects on the,tfate, in which arts and sciences were found among them three hundred year ago, must be convinced of the extraordinary antiquity of their empire. THE low state of learning, and the fine arts in China, may perhaps be farther owing to the very perfection of its government. This paradox has its foundation in reason. Where the Rfudy of the laws holds the first rank in a na tion, and is rewarded with an appointment in the administration instead of a post in an academy; where learn ing is applied to the regulation of manners, or the main penance of the public weal; where the same nation is ex exceedingly populous, and requires a constant attention in its learned members to make subsistence keep an equal pace with population; where every individual, besides the duties he owes to the public, which take a considerable time to be well understood, has particular duties ari sing from the claims of his family or profession: in such a nation the speculative and ornamental parts of science cannot be e.xp2ted to arrive at that height of splendor They have attained in Europe. But the Chinese, who are only our scholars in the arts of luxury and vanity, are our n-afcrr in the science of good government. They study how to inches ie ntt how to dins;niill the number of inhabitants Or:: of the ar-s in which the Chilnicf have made the lea. progress is that of w:'r. It ii nat rat to imagine, that a hasten, wh:i.e shlcS conduct,, like that of infants, is influenced by cer:v:i:iSs, precepts, and outruns either of private or public i-.iiuruiol, must coifequeilyly be pliant, r.oderarc, and inclined to tranquillity both at hone and abroad. Reason and rcfic^ion, while they cherish senti ments ii;k that" , leave no room for that enthusiasm, which constitutes the hero and the warrior. The spirit or humanity,, which they i inbile hin their tender years,,nui:l;s
makes them look with abhorrence on those sanguinary B 0o o Scenes of rapine and massacre, that are so familiar to na ,e tions of a warlike turn. With such dispositions, can we wonder that the Chinese are not warriors? They have soldiers without number, but totally undisciplined, except in the single article of obedience, being frill more deficient in practice than in courage. In their wars with the Tar tars, the Chinese knew not how to fight, and only Food to be killed. Their attachment to their government, their country and their laws, may supply the want of a warlike spirit, but will never supply the want of good arms, and military Skill. When a nation has found the art of subduing its conquerors by its manners, it has no occasion to overcome its enemies by force of arms. SucH is the empire of China so much talked of, and so little known. Such it was, when the Portuguese landed there. They might have learned in it lessons of wisdom and government, but they thought of nothing but enrich ing themselves, and propagating their religion. Thomas Perez, their ambassador, found the court of Pekin disposed to favour his nation, whose same had spread itself through nut Asia. It had already attracted the esteem of the Chinese, and the conduce of Ferdinand Andrea, who commanded the Portuguese squadron, tended still farther to increase their esteem. lie visited all the coasts of China, and traded with the natives. When he was on the point of departure, he made proclamation in the pores lie had put into, that if any one had been injured by a Portuguese, and would make it known he (hould receive satisfaction. The ports of China were now upon the point of being opened to them: Thomas Perez was jut about concluding a treaty, when Simon Andrea, brother to Ferdinand, appeared on the coasts with a fresh f'iu.itd-on. This commander treated the Chinese in the i'ime n.tirter as t e Portage e had. for ne time. treat ,d ai: ;i.; pcui!e of Alan. Itv built a so:-t without per-,!:silion,
3 0 0 K milton, in the island of Tamen, from whence he took . opportunities of pillaging, and extorting money from all,the Ship. bound from, or to the ports of China. He car. cried off young girls from the coast; he seized upon Chinese men and made them slaves; he gave himself up to the most licentious hats of piracy, and the most shameful dissoluteness. The sailors and soldiers under his com. and, followed his example. The Chinese enraged at these violences fitted out a large fleet: The Portuguese defended themselves courageously, and escaped by mak ing their way through the enemy's fleet. The emperor imprisoned Thomas Perez, who died in confinement, and the Portuguese nation was banished from China for one years; after this the Chinese relaxed and gave permission to the Portuguese to trade at the port of Sancian, to which place they brought gold from Africa, spices from the Mo lucca islands, and from Ceylon, elephants teeth, and some precious stones. In return they took silks of every kind, china, gums, medicinal herbs and tea, which is since-become so necessary a commodity to the northern nations of Europe. THE Portuguese contented themselves with the leeds and offices they had at Sancian, and the liberty grantee to their trade by the Chinese government, till an oppor unity offered of cfRabiifhing themselves upon a footing more solid, and less dependent upon the mandarins, who had the command of the coasts PrlATE, named Tokang-fi-loo, whose successors bad made him powerful, had seized upon the island of Macao from whence he blocked up the ports of China, and even proceeded so far as to lay siege to Canton. The neigh pouring mandarins had recourse to the Portuguese, wll had fires in the harbour of Sancian; they hastened to With ri.;l of Canton, raised the siege, and obtained compleat victory over the pirate, whom they pursued a f;- i acme, ;share the i.ii!d iiif.l:'.,'I d
THe emperor of China being informed of the service B 0 0 K tile Portuguese had rendered him on this occasion, he towed Macao on them, as a mark of his gratitude. They received this grant with joy, and built a town which be tame very flourishing, and was advantageously situated for the trade they soon after entered into with Japan. IN tile year 1542, it happened that a portuguese vessel Th, l Ein. fortunately was driven by a florin on the coast of those i,,,e,,3,c celebrated islands. The crest was hospitably received, t",dC ,Sand obtained of the natives every thing they wanted to 1at1 of the rcfrei, and refit them for the sea. When they arrived lla'".r' at Goa, they reported what they had seen, and informed the viceroy, that a new country, not less rich than populous presented itself to the zeal of missionaries, and the industry of merchants. Both missionaries, and merchants embarked without delay for Japan. T urE found a great empire, which is, perhaps, the most ancient of any in the world, except that of China; its an nails are not without a great mixture of fable, but it ap pears beyond a doubt, that in the year 660, Sin-clin founded the monarchy, which has ever since been con tinged in the same family. These sovereigns called Dairos, were at the fane time the kings, and the pontiffs of the nation; and by virtue of there united powers got the whole extent of the fitpremc authority into their hands. The person of the Dairos was f.:crce, they were considered as the descendants, and rclprelcnl;tives of the gods. The least disobedience to the nimot trifling of their laws, was looked upon as a crime scarcely to be expiated hy the severest punishments; nor were they confined to the offender alone, his whole family was involved in the consequences of his crime. Amour tie eleventh century there princes, who, no doubt, were more jealous; of the pleating prerogatives of priesthood, than of the troublesome rights of royalty-listed With tate with f(ivcjal govcrlrmcnti, and in'tltlled,the I
B O O tK the administration of them to filch of tie nobility as were,most distinguished for their knowledge and wisdom. BY this means the unlimited plIwer of the Dairos suis. served a considerable change. The affairs of the empire were left to fluctuate at all adventuring. The restless and quick sighted ambition of their viceroys took advantage of this inattention to make a thousand revolutions. By degrees they began to depart from the allegiance they had sworn to preserve. They made war upon each other, and even upon their fovcieigll: an absolute independence was the consequence of these commotions, filch was the State of Japan, when it was discovered by the Portuguese. THE great hands, of which this empire is composed, seeing situated il a tempestuous climate surrounded by storms, agitated by volcanos, and filbjec to those great natnr!' events. which impress terror on the human mind, were inhabited by a people entirely addicted to fiurpcrlti- too, but divided into several fed. 'I'hat of Xinto i. the ancient established religion of the country: it ac. knowledges a supreme being, and the immortality of the foul; and pays adoration to a multitude of gods, faints, or canis that is to say the fouls of great men, who have been the support and ornament of their country. The high-priest of this feO h-eld the government of Japan unldcr the inane Drf Dir. li was dclciedcd from the gods, ail in that quality rrii;t:cl despotically over his fiijcf't. Being both cmlrprnr and high-priest, he has rendered religion, in some rr l'rcqs, nlfcft tl his people, which is not absolutely impossible in countries were the sacerdotal and civil power are Ignited in :ie faite persons. Ir does not appear that the feet of Xinto has had the m-idinrrs which -f all otlihl is the molt dangerous to nor 'ilp to si a irilimnai liigina on ashore innocent in them 1;1 -. :Far from nconriirsging that g;lt'omy fanaticism, and tirar of the gode, which i infliic'l ably almost all otl r reil i,,:", t!:e Xi:tno ft(l hi.id ?p;llie i's!.s t,' li'velnt, ort
leash to moderate this disorder of the imagination, by B 0 0 K instituting festivals, which were celebrated three times in 4 every month. 'I'lhey were dedicated to friendly visits, feasts, and rejoicing. The priests of Xinto taught, that the innocent pleasures of mankind are agreeable to the deity, ant that the best method of paying devotion to tile Canis is to, imitate their virtue, and to ei'joy in this world, that hapililirrs they enjoy in another. In consequence of this tenet, the Japanese after having put ip their prayers in the temples, which are always situated in tile midian of grove, resorted to courtesan, who com monty inhabited places crnlfecra ted to love, and devotion, and composed a religious community thunder the direoi-it of all older of monks who receives a shine of the profits, arising from this lions coni pliable with the dictates of nature. 'the r.lr.doilts are another ser in !Span, of will Buidzo was the founder. Their dlntrile was nearly the same with that of the feet rs Ninth ; over which they hoped to gains a filpelioiityy tile severity of their mn talk. glides Amnii, the deity of the Xintoifts, the Butloiilis wrlilbiped a kind of mcdliat'r .between God an(ld irilkill. 'I Ip likewise wnrfnip)lcdl otrhcr mediatorial divinities lii cnn run and Anlilda. TI'h professors Sos this religions, 1,,ttcrcdl themselves, that they flihil pie vail ever the srt'liin *r Linton hy the millitilde of their precept, the excels of their aulriity, their d.vutiin. Pni(l fortifications. 'I'.H spirit of IBnrlznifrll i; rrrlatifil. It breathe, nothing hit pInitcic. e:.cc,;irive f::tlr, :ian cries fcviity. Of all faniiticifrns it i- tie dirt t rrlc ibi. 'I Sec ir111rnks of this feet oblige their diciiplcs to pia; ri'ne half of thir lives in penance, to expiate imaginary fill; nid inflict Ilrn them the greatest part of that penance thciTmfelvc, with a tyranny and cruelty, of which lne r may con ive an idcr , flown the ir'lifi[',r ins Splash ; filth tins diifcrcece that,the
o O K the Japanese fathers are themselves the butchers of they voluntary victims to superstition; whereas the inquisitorial only the judges of those fins and punishments, which they have themselves devised and invented. The Buddhists priests keep the minds of their followers in a continual slate of torture, between remorse and expiations. Their religion is so over-loaded with precepts, that it is not possible to observe them. They represent their gods as always desirous to punish, and always offended. Ir may readily be imagined, what seas so horrible a superstition must have on the character of the people, and to what degree of ferocity it hath brought them. The lights of a wholesome morality, a little philosophy, a prudent system of education might have remedied these laws, this government, and this religion; which con spire to make mankind more savage in society with his own species, than if he lived in the woods, and had no companions but the monsters that roam the deserts. LI China, they put into the hands of children books of instruction, which contain a detail of their duties, and teach them the advantages of virtue. The Japanese children are made to get by heart poems in which the actions of their forefathers are celebrated, a contempt of life is inculcated, and suicide is set up as the most heroic of all actions. These songs and poems, which are said to be full of energy and beauty, beget enthusiasm. The Chi nee education tends to regulate the foul, and keep it in order: the Japanese, to inflame and excite it to he rois. These are guided through life by sentiment; the Chinese by reason and custom. THE Chinese aim only at truth in their writings, and place their happiness in a state of tranquility. The Japanese have a quick relish of pleasures, and would rather sussex, than be without feeling. In fine, the Chinese teem to wish to counteract the violence and impetuosity of,the
the foul; the Japanese to keep it from finking into a B 0 0o K state of languor and inactivity. I-r is natural to imagine that people of this character must be fond of novelty. The Portuguese were accord singly received with all' possible demonstrations of joy. All the ports were open to them. All the petty princes of the country invited them to their provinces: each con tending who should give them the most valuable advantages grant them the mos privileges, and shew them the greater civilities. These merchants established a prodigious trade. The Portuguese carried thither the com modifies of India which they brought from different markets; and Macao served as a repository for their Euro pean goods. Immense quantities of the productions of Europe and Aia were consumed by the Cairo, the usurpers of his rights, the grandees, and the whole nation. But what have they to give in return ? THE country of Japan is in general mountainous, Strong, and by no means fertile. Its produce in rice, barley, and wheat, which are the only crops it admits of, is not sufficient for the maintenance of its numerous inhabitants; who, notwithstanding their activity, foresight, and frugality must perish with famine, if the sea did not supply them with great quantities of fish. The empire affords no, productions proper for exportation; nor do the mechanic arts filrnilh any article of trade but their works of feels which are the best we are acquainted with. Were it not for the advantages it derives from its mines of gold, silver, and copper, which are the richest in Asia and perhaps in the whole world, Japan could not support its own expences. 'The Portuguese every year carried off quantities of there metals, to the amount of fourteen or fifteen millions of livres a. They married also the richest Upon an average, about 634,00o1.,of
B o n K of t the I].pallel'. lieieltea, anti allied tiem1itlves to the tl, i . xlii :tl ti Idilila-., -i., .4i Wit it file aallvmitdges the avarice aus well its rill anltil.,i,1 till of the I'ltlllitelclt , iii il liavel heel fiilitltll, 'llTey * ' :"; ir, were all ¥ tells it the coldly ot Ciiiea, Ar.alla, inertia, aml,the twos I'eiilliilasi t It lllli. Il ley wet :l'lltl'iI l1: 1' lii Motlccaas, t'eyllil ailll tie illehs .til , liti, while thir sir. tleillleit at Maldl.a i tlitl til they'll lit Cite tittie U it Litin.ih and JhIlail-t'I lingua. r Ithi ill niinlifi ta-act, the will of lite 'llr- ttlliel'e Was tIle t ialjaitia. law., Earth wilt sea alllilw- ledged Illiei lhiVai aptly. 'I'lirir aiilltlO sty waa fCo alilfil,i that tllllgal wilt JI rllfiil tliw - l l-lrlcl 1ljt il salt ill, aillJ lilo .eil iiilirrly ly thy lii tit litJlDi. Nos iiitliii,,i piliiiv l- pert all tai ct It Illdi - r a - a i a* lrliy o il viiltl, if liiltr oltai ialin tg Ill i ri I.t it illiltl ti i l ,I hill i.Hit 'i'll li; wvli 1il.h- illa I lull lh l lliill, th r jlhli. lilldLl Jll'lllI liatillil{I it r lilian tit data xliii n , |lc)a it-i, ti all it, , i lii. I Iii, liatI, tilt, a11d ital liar. atl l ivllil the aLu nftl it lt i vias l tlt'lv tll ill ll l'lvl- the et Llilit- elicit A illtiillltl vilidille a lirlth, by which , I .a lady hI lin. lac lilt,- tl IIllth-,l thi(lll-tIlytai ,tl t til l ii t tJl 111n it a li:i;lo l j1 ti : l itt ll ' it ll ofi 1 li tlua\llry. ; . ia ilitlila. y cl1ji ( .llt a ly 1 lit e I's l 11 tiilJl , Its ttIclr-cttte oIs It t ll a ill, iij ly. lliu p it's ia ll (e Ita ( jl tltl< i-dtl 111 1aataaitiiia -a loath ;i1 a ',i ili l- > hat A lit weal 1t' tiliilt-t al their <llili>ll., IN liar 1iiil l ft ia) 1111'ih gljlyalty aclalll, tat l ul t1ilttlll, the l'liitt ,tli't-'- h .- l nuit tl cr lcttal tilt i.it t t' Allies, tlia- ha baclt.-al lace L'ilte ,1' .tina I lo lltr ailtl tllr ll cl Seas, .;!itl la. ill .ll ,tr.ca lies-il tl ea d ltr Illic liClltlc'a oa l il , l)>ti!ui~lnia l. ' lie |liJll'itllt t (.1 filia (ttiil y wa ts11 nullity ial.',luiitb al, inllpt if-ails otljcr : Illic AlitlJi.tiii lhald lib el lt-a ted there Ilia flivcdiil agt-, ibid alicia Iitltiilbe well rittllly incre:a-Il'. Tlhc-y l.ld stoical .lath a la e co lt I'll Z7iI guebar lvtAl.it alla.lall inadeptcldcat tl;veri'rttiic,, Illic otl Which all:,il .1 a:tiu!ri .blc Ii alae, :til ailiu llt all o( tlicl,Wcll;
w13ra0 Jib gooil LlondiI kill. 'Ilia Ijoll isjiIng has ns thrill gbt t- i 0 0 I,WI o in bbollld 4 M hl its 11111, u 1 T i l poll I5 1 ]i14 ii ]i lC il ill al i ia aiill lo ldi- pii l l thir t ijitlil I W ooktd po hats al chilli 1l tii(itihlea itisy Ih rill.it: P liiitta AIb I Juiu to lii k piin-,thr~i iguana nab lied until bt~gilt,: which ael, iced Wtii~nir tiiell li dii lb sIllidlic, II ii a h at film laiit &s s d. uIpi4i It ll enlitiger I1 wally ii ll'i tliit ali i'll p ir w hurl I e in liitlst 1irooki,5l l i'd[ lIM ci xlii t'i ibjai which ttlie land of Wilt ante ri li i, Thing is It il a wild iiic'I "i t. l wa ills iiaed I jhjilleit I'r allyiyit'j i her.1.dv t liii ll , and werol i itlc i~bi,11 two' agisiuhisri l est libiptla, w which, tttg 11Iln id i iste u1 pliie sriiclte. 1jol F t ie kuii il-1ó to) holly al , ihhe ris nlo lare sa, all ile ill l ltlc ic 11ol~r ly Wel iii"'01 o)ll Ye'll. 11)w Without si-told I l salle ilb he Astir a l t llr hottieia nib ni o U t ti, hat tttiiht I ii y, I li iki h l ie i .t anti ollye doshioi,tt if lit-li like e411w ois idea ic t oh jI d, Rotate, these ninth Sibi vldy, in' ihitt [pie soils' nit 'iliste Itrlgiona ~eI)l) , wItr u alt liitti- In .eke 1 th il bits vit ai hutil h'tiuhy o 'hliie sad ties.cltl fciitle abicti- jihgigi, ch ittlod-j,til eiwng tahiti khngdtis oh' At~iay linji~ii iltte hostherneh swl riutriyht, had china ed little ptjtiy (siiciihil Trim he Muir iiijd cal lithe liddt died siiijituiiil olhh e liiiht Whisht tit t tart C i~llcah iiitt od ce nia, ii iliiei the plain VOL. sect. Th1Md osllpc'ltr
B 0 0 K and became in a short time the terror and scourge of allegations. THE king of Sidon was carried off from his own palace, and murdered with his children, whom he had entrusted to the care of the Portuguese. AT Ceylon, the people were not suffered to cultivate the earth, except for their new masters, who treated them with the greatest barbarity. AT Goa they had established the inquisition, and who ever was rich became a prey to the ministers of that infra. mous tribunal.,FA.rIA, who was sent out against the pirates from Ma lucca, China, and other parts, made a descent on the island of Calamus, and plundered the sepulchres of the emperors of China. Souza caused all the pagodas on the Malabar coast to be destroyed, and his people inhumanly massacred the wretched Indians, who went to weep over the ruins of thei; temples. Cornea terminated an obstinate war with the king of Pegu, and both parties were to swear on the books of their several religions to observe the treaty. Cornea swore on a collection of songs, and thought by this vile stratagem to elude his engagement. / Nu-o da Cunha would make himself master of the island of Damanag on the coast of Cambaya; the inhabitants offered to surrender it to him, if he would sussex them to carry off their treasures. This request was re fused, and Nuns put them all to the sword.,DIro de Silver was cruising in the red sea. A vessel richly laden saluted him. The captain came on board, and gave him a letter from a Portuguese general, which was to be his passport. The letter contained only these words: I desire th captains of ships belonging to ths Ting of Portugal tgfeize upon this moorish vJjel, as a lawful prizes:
IN a short time the Portuguese preserved no more huma B 0 O city or good faith with each other than with the natives. Almost all the states, where they had the command, were divided into factions. THERE prevailed every where in their manners a mixture of avarice, debauchery, cruelty and devotion. They had most of them seven or eight concubines, whom they kept to work with the utmost rigour, and forced from them the money they gained by their labour. Such treatment of women was very different from the spirit of chivalry the chiefs, and principal officers, admitted to their table a multitude of those singing and dancing women, with which India abounds. Effeminacy introduced itself into their houses and armies. The officers marched to meet the enemy in palankeens. That brilliant courage, which had subdued so many nations, existed no longer among them. The Portuguese were with difficulty brought to fight, except where there was a prospect of plunder. In a short time the king of Portugal used to receive the produce of the tribute, which was paid him by more than one hundred and fifty eastern princes. This money was lost in its way from them to him. Such corruptionpre- wailed in the finances, that the tributes of sovereigns, the revenues of provinces, which ought to have been immense, the taxes they levied in gold, silver, and spices, on the inhabitants of the continent and islands, were not sufficient to keep up a few citadels, and to fit out the shipping that was necessary for the protection of trade. JT is a melancholy view to contemplate the fall of nations. Let us hasten to the administration of Don Juan da Castro, who restored to the Portuguese some part of their virtue. CASTRO was much enlightened considering the age he lived in. He possessed a noble and elevated foul; and the Rfudy of the ancients had preserved in him that love of glory and of his country, which was so common among tile Greeks and Romans.,I 2 Is
B 00L K Is the beginning of his wise and glorious administrations - Cojc-Sophao, minister of Mahmoud, king of Cambaya,,had inspired his mailer with a design of attacking the Portuguese This man, whose father is said to have been an Italian, and his mother a Greek, had rased himself from slavery to the conduct of the state, and the command of armies. He had made himself a Musulman, and, though he had really no religion, he knew how to avail himself of the aversion the people had conceived against the Portuguese on account of the contempt they Shewed for the re legions of the country. He engaged in his service experienced officers, veteran soldiers, able engineers, and even founders, whom he got from Constantinople. His preparations seemed intended against the Mogul or the Patans, and when the Portuguese least expected it, he attacked and made himself master of Diu, and laid siege to the citadel. THIS place, which is situated on a little island upon the coast of Guzurat, had always been considered as the key of India in thole times, when navigators never launched out from the coast; and Surat was the great staple of the east. From the arrival of Gama, it had been constantly an object of ambition to the Portuguese, into whose hands it sell at length in the time of d'Acughna. Mafcarenhas, who was governor of it at the juncture we are speaking of, hould have had nine hundred men, of which he had only three: the rest of his garrison, by an abuse very common in those days, were employed in trade at the different towns upon the coast. He mus have surrendered, if he had not received immediate a'ntatnce. Castro sent him a reinforcement under the command of his son, who wag killed in the attempt. Coje-Sophar was killed also; but his death did not slacken the operations of the siege. Castro instituted funeral games in honour of those who sell in defence of their country. He congratulated their parents in the name of the government, and received con gratulations himself on the death of his eldest son. His,second
second presided at the funeral games, and marched imme- B 0 0 K lately after for Diu, to deserve, as it were, the honours he had just been paying to his brother. The garrison repulsed the enemy in every attack, and signalized themselves every day by extraordinary actions. In the eyes of the Indians the Portuguese were more than men. Happily, said they, providence has decreed that there hould be but few es them as there ar of tygers aln lions, Ses they Should enter. minute the human species. CAST Ro himself headed a arger reinforcement than those he had sent. He threw himself into the citadel with pro visions, and above four thousand men. It was debated, whether they Should give battle. The reasons on both sides were discussed. Garcia de Si, an old officer, com handed since; Ye have allspice, said he, now let us fight. Castro was of the same opinion. Tho Portuguese marched dut to the enemy's entrenchment, and gained a signal vic tory. After having raised the siege, it was necessary to repair the citadel. They were in want of money, and: Castro borrowed, it on his own credit. AT his return to Goa he wished to give his army the honours of a triumph after the manner of the ancients. He thought that such honours would serve to revive the warlike spirit of the Portuguese, and that the pomp of the ceremony might have a great effect on the imagina tion of the people. At his entry the gates of the city were ornamented with triumphal arches; the streets were lined with tapestry; the women, appeared at the windows in magnificent habits, and scattered flowers and perfumes upon the conquerors; while the people danced to the found of instruments of music. The royal standard was carried before the various soldiers, who marched in or der. The viceroy crowned with branches of palm rode on a superb car: the generals of the enemy followed his car, and after them the soldiers that had been made prisoners The colours that had been taken from them,! 3 were
B 0 K were carried in procession reversed and dragging on the . ' . ground, and were followed by their artillery and baggage.,Representations of the citadel they had delivered, and of the battle they had gained, enhanced the splendor of the spectacle. Verses, songs, orations, firing of canon, every thing concurred to render the festival magnificent, agree able, and striking. ACCOUNTS of this triumph were brought to Europe. The wits condemned it as ridiculous, the bigots as pro fare. The queen of Portugal said upon the occasion, 'hat Caflr bad conquered like a christian hero and triumphed ike a pagan one. THE vigour of the Portuguese, which Castro had re-anie mated, did not long continue. Corruption made daily ad dances among the citizens of every class. One of the viceroys set up boxes in the principal towns, in which any person might put memorials and articles of intelligence. Such a method might be very useful and tend to a reformation of abuses in an enlightened country, where the morals of the people were not totally spoiled, but among ; superstitious and corrupt people of what service could it be? Te original conquerors of India were none of them now subsisting, and their country exhausted by too many enterprizes and colonies was not in a capacity to replace them. The defenders of the Portuguese settlements were born in Asia; their opulence, the softness of the climate, the manner of living, and, perhaps, the food had taken from them much of the intrepidity of their forefathers. At the same time that they gave themselves up to all those excesses which make men hated, they did not retain cou. rage enough to make themselves feared. They were confers; poison, fire, assassination, every fort of crime vias become familiar to them; nor were they private per. fens only who were guilty of filch practices; men ill office set them the example ! They cut the throats of thN,3 natives;
natives; they tore each other in pieces. The governor, B O O K who was just arrived, loaded his predecessor with irons, that he might strip him of his wealth. The distance of the scene, false witnesses and large bribes secured every crime from punishment. THE island of Amboyna was the first to avenge itself. DIel of,the Ponu- A Portuguese had at a public festival seized upon a very guc epowce beautiful woman, and regardless of all decency, had com m Sind mitted the greatest of outrages against her. One of the islanders, named Giulio, armed his fellow-citizens; as ter which he called together the Portuguese, and addressed them in the following manner: " To revenge affronts of " so cruel a nature as those we have received from you, ' would require avons, not words. Yet we will speak · to you. You preach to us a Deity, who delights, y6u,fay, in generous actions; but theft, murder, obscenity, "and drunkenness are your common practice; your · hearts are enflamed with every vice. Our manners ' can never suit with yours: nature foresaw this, when T she separated us by immense seas, and ye have over leaped her barriers This audacity, of which ye are not ashamed to boars, is a proof of the corruption of "your hearts. Take my advice; leave to their repose "there nations that resemble you so little; go, fix your "habitations among those, who are as brutal as your-selves; an intercourse with you would be more fatal "to us than all the evils which it is in the power of your ' God to inflict upon us. We renounce your alliance for ever: your arms are superior to ours; but we are "more just than you, and we do not fear you. The Tons are from this day your enemies; fly from their country, and beware how you approach it again." THIS harangue, which thirty years before would have brought on the destruction of Amboyna, was listened to with a patience that fully demonstrated what a change the Portuguese had undergone.,4 Equally
B 0o0 K EQUALLY detested in every part, they saw a confederacy forming to expel them from the east. All the great powers of India entered into the league, aid for two or three years carried on their preparations in secret. The court of Lilbon was informed of them; and the king Sebastian, who, if it had not been for his superstition, would have been a great prince, dispatched Ataida and all the Portuguese, who had distinguished themselves in the wars of Europe, to India. THE general opinion on their arrival was to abandon the disant settlements, and assemble their forces on the Malabar coast, and in the neighbourhood of Goa. Al though Ataida was of opinion that they had formed too great a number of settlements, lie did not like the ap. appearance of sacrificing then. .Comrade, said he, I meat to preserve all, anrffo long as I live the enemy shall not gain an inch of ground. Immediately upon this ho sent succour to all the places that were in danger, and made the nc. cesare dispositions for defending Goa. THE Comorin attacked Mlanjalor, Cochin, and Ca. manor. The king of Cambaya attacked Chaul, Da. man, Baichaim. The king of Achcm laid siege te Malacca. The king of Ternate made war upon them in the Moluccas. Agalachem, a tributary to the Mo. gul, imprisoned the Portuguese merchants at Surat. The queen of Garcia endeavoured to drive them out of Nor. ATAIDA, in the midst of the care and trouble attending the siege of Goa, front five ships to Surat, which obliged Agalachem to set the Portuguese, whom he had seized at liberty. Thirteen ships were dispatched to Malacca upon which the king of Clem and his allies abandoned the siege. Besides these, Ataida would fit out even the vessels, which wecrc employed every year to carry tribute and merchandise to Lilbon. It was represented to him,,a chatham
instead of depriving himself of the assistance of men B 0 0 K who were to go on board this fleet, he should preserve them for the defence of India. VPe shall be enough without tin m, said he, thiralte is in dwarfs and its hopes mus not be de etivtd, This reply surprised his opponents, and the fleet failed. At the time when the place was most rigorously pressed by Idalcani Ataida sent troops to the succour of Cochin and ships to Ceylon. The archbishop, whose au authority Was unlimited, interposed to prevent it. Sir, re plied Ataida, you understand nothing of tbhfe affairs, Cos tn1t )yurfilf with recommending them to the biting of God. The Portuguese, who came from Europe, exhibited pro digits of valour during this siege. It was oftentimes with difficulty, that Ataida could restrain them from throwing away their lives. Many of them would sally out in the night contrary to his orders to attack the besiegers in their lines. THE viceroy did not depend so entirely on the force of his arms, as to reject the assistance of policy. He was in formed, that Idalcan was governed by one of his mistresses, and that she was in the camp with him. Women, who devote themselves to the pleasures of princes are gene rally slaves to ambition, and unacquainted with those vir tues, which love inspires. The mistress of Idalcan suffered herself to be corrupted, and sold to Ataida her lover's 'ccrets. Idalcan was aware of the treason, but could not discover the traitor. At last, after ten months spent in toil and aCtion, his tents defrayed, his troops thinned, his elephants killed, and his cavalry unable to serve, this prince overcome by the genius of Ataida, quitted the siege, and retreated in shame and despair. Tai DA marched without delay tother assistance of Chaul, which was besieged by Nizamalve, king of Cambaya, at the head of more than a hundred thousand men. The defence of Chaul had been conducted with as much intrepidity
B O O K rapidity as that of Goa. It was followed by a great viftory,,;. ',y which Ataida, with a handful of men, obtained over numerous army, disciplined by a long siege. ATAIDA, after this, marched against the Comorin, de. seated and obliged him to sign a treaty, by which he engaged never to keep up any ships of war. THE Portuguele became throughout the east what they were under the immediate conduct of Ataida. A single ship, commanded by Lopez Carafco, fought for three days successively against the whole fleet of the king of Achelm. In the middle of the engagement word was brought to Lopez's son, that his father was killed: IrV have one brass man the less, said he; we must conquer, or serve to die as he has done. Saying this, he took the command of the Ship, and forcing his way in triumph ths ough the enemy's fleet, anchored before Malacca. Not was courage the only virtue that revived among the Portuguele at this period, so powerful is the ascendent sofa great man, even over the most corrupt nation. Things de Sofa had got for a lave a beautiful girl, who had nol long before been promised to a young man that was in love with her. He getting intelligence of the misfortune of hi mistress, flew to throw himself at her feet, and partake of her chains. Sofa was present at their interview; the) embraced, and melted into tears. give you your liberty, said the Portuguele general, go and live happy elsewhere. THE management of the public money was likewise re formed by Ataida, who restrained those abuses, which ar mos injurious to states. and most difficult to be restrained But this good order, this returning heroism, this glorious moment, did not survive his administration. AT the death of Sebastian, Portugal sunk into a kind o anarchy, and was by degrees reduced under the dominion of Philip the Second. From this era the Portuguele it India ceased to consider themselves as of the same country,Soi0
Some made themselves independent, others turned pirates, B o o 4K and paid no respect to any flag. Many entered into the service of the princes of the country, and there almost all became ministers or generals, so great were the advantages this nation frill maintained over those of India. There was not one among the Portuguese, who pursued any other object than the advancement of his own interest: there was no zeal, no union for the common good. Their possessions in India were divided into three governments, which gave no assistance to each other, and even clashed in their projects and interests. Neither discipline, subordination nor the love of glory, animated either the soldiers or the officers. Men of war no longer came out of the ports, or whenever they came out were badly equipped. Manners became more and more depraved. Not one of their commanders had power enough to re Train the tor rent of vice, and the majority of there commanders were themselves corrupt. The Portuguese at length lost all their former greatness, when a free and enlightened na tion, assuaged with a proper spirit of toleration, appeared in India, and contended with them for the empire of that country. IT may be affirmed, that at the time when Portugal first made its discoveries, the world was very little acquainted with the political principles of trade, the real power of different states, the advantages of conquest, the manner of establishing and preserving colonies, and the benefits the mother-country might derive from them. IT was a wise project to endeavour to find a passage by Africa to go to the Indies, and to bring merchandise. The benefits which the Venetians derived by less direct roads, had justly excited the emulation of the Portuguese; hut it was proper there Should be some limits to so laudable an ambition.,THIS
If On IC Tntn small nation becoming on a hidden mistress of the . y". richest and-most extensive commerce of the globe, soon,tonrifted of nothing else hut merchants, falter, and forlorn, who were destroyed by long voyages. Tlihu til Portal. gates leo the foundation of nil real power, which consist in agriculture, natural industry, and population g and there wtra consequently no proportion batweeat their coin. merry and the means of keeping it up. Tttr carried there destructive measures Rill further; *ad, animated with the rage of conquest, extended then. fel·i over a vast track of land, which no European na. inn would lane been able to preserve, without impairing stir own strength. Tvls this (mall country, which of itself wag not very populous, constantly exhausted itself il soldiers, sailors, and inhabitants, sent to supply the colonies. TH.L spirit of religious Toleration that prevailed amongst Them, would not allow them to admit into the class of their own citizens the people of the aft and of Africa and tile were therefore obliged to he perpetually at war with their new fnhjectt. As the government soon changed its medicines of trade into prnojcs of rnnileft; the nation, which had nrvl been guided by the true commercial spirit, soon all'fiied that of rapine and plunder. Ttii-ltacts, fire arms, fine cloths, and other articles, which have been since carried into India, not being then brought to that degree of perfection they have lately ac. quire, the Portuguese could not carry any thing thole but money. They soon grew tired of this, and carried away from the Indians by force what they had before hl gained by purchase. Ther was to he seen throughout the kingdom of ]'nr. total the utmost precision of riches, joined to the nos extreme poverty. The only opulent prisons were IlIol,,,I
who had held soin employment in the Indies; while the a 0o hulbandi:ln, who found no one to lift him In his toil, 1 and the artisan, who were unable to procure workmen, being soon counselled to forego their several employments, were reduced to the towel slate of misery. AI. thllfc llilsfrtunis had been foreseen. When the discovery of the Indic engaged the attention of Portugal, that court flattered itself that the bare appearance of their ships in that mild climate, would insure the postillion of it | that the trade of these countries would prove as an knox. haIufilec source of richly to the nation, ai it had been to those people who had hitherto been altera of it ; and that by the treasure arising from it, the Irate, notwithstanding its finally extent of territory, would become equal in strength and grandeur to tbi moth formidable powers. 'There were folle, however, who were not missed by theft delusive hopes. The moRs penetrating and moderate of the ministers ventured to affirm, that the consequence of running ins earchl of rich minerals, and glittering mer childlike, would be an inattention to object of real ad vantage, agriculture, and manufactures; that wars, slip. wrecks, epidemical disease, and other accidents, would weaken the whole empire beyond recovery ; that the [tate thus carried out from its centre by the impulse of an extra vacant ambition, would either by force or art attract the rubjetas to tile most distant parts of Aia ; that even if this enterprize succeeded, It would raise a powerful confederacy which it would be impossible for the crown of Portugal to defeat. Attempts were in vain made, some time alter this, to convince these discerning men of their error, by shewing them that the Indians were subdued; the Moors repulsed, and the Turks defeated: and by exhibiting the tide of wealth that flowed Into Portugal. Their opinions were too well grounded in experience to be shaken bh the report of these flattering suckles. 'they still in-fired
B O 0 K sifted that a few years would discover the folly of puflhmg . '. these pursuits to extremity, and that they must inevitably lead to a corruption of morals, and end in ravages and uni versal confusion. Time, the great arbiter of political mat terms, has since shewn the truth of their predictions. Prfetfiate OF all the conquests which the Portuguese had made in oft;age- India, theypoffefs none at present but Macao Diu, and firs in In Goa; and the united importance of these three settlements,,in their intercourse with India and Portugal, is very inconsiderable MACAO annually sends two vessels to Gda laden with china and other goods, that are rejected at Canton; the owners of which are generally Chinese merchants. These lips bring back as much of the sandal, Indian saffron, ginger and pepper, as the two frigates belonging to Goa are able to procure on the southern coast. The vessel which trades to the north carries a part of the cargo that comes from China to Surat, where it takes in some linens, and compleats its lading at Diu, which is not what it was formerly. A ship arrives every year from Europe, which procures at Goa a thrall and indifferent cargo, consisting of goods picked up from China, Guzarat, and a set English counting houses, and fells them at Mozambique, Brasil, Angola, or the capital. SUCH is the declining state into which the Portuguese affairs in India are fallen, from that pinnacle of glory to which they had been raised by the bold adventurers who discovered, and the intrepid heroes who conquered that country. The scene of their glory and opulence is be come that of their ruin and disgrace. Their situation, however, is not so desperate as it may appear. Their remaining possessions are more then sufficient to intitle them to a large share in the affairs of India. But this change can only le effected by the aids of philosophy and n spirit of liberty. If the Portuguese knew their true ic-,terclb,
interests, if their ports were declared free, and those who B 0 0 K fettled in them had their fortunes and the liberty of con I science secured to them, Indians who are now oppressed by their government, and the Europeans who are injured by their monopolizing companies, would retort to their settlements in great numbers, and their flag, which has long been despised, would again become respectable. Its power cannot, however, be equal to that of the Dutch, a persevering and considerate people, whose en enterprizes we are going to relate.,BOOK
r 128 1 B o K II. Tbe settlements, wars, policy, and trade of thi,Dutch in the East-Indies. m °oo K T['P HE republic of-holland, has, from its first rise, been -t -', - .i. an objects universal admiration, and cannot fail disengage the curiosity and attention of the remotest posterity. The inhabitants have every where distinguished them selves by their industry and enterprizing genius: but art particularly celebrated for their knowledge of mari time affairs, and their expeditions to the continent of India. But before we attend them in their progress to these opulent and extensive regions, let us trace their history to its earliest ara. Such a retrospect is peculiarly proper in a work of this nature, as it will comprehend at one glance, all those characteristic marks by which the genius of a nation is distinguished. It is necessary that a reader who reflects may be enabled to judge of himself if the original state of this nation were such as afforded a presage of its future power; and whether the heroic associates of Civilis, who defied the Roman power, did not transfuse their spirit into those brave republicans, who, under the auspices of Nassau, opposed the dark and odious tyranny of Philip the Second. Ancient - It is a fat established by the best historical authority, lotions ia that in the century preceding the christian era, the Batty,,dissatisfied with their situation in Hesse, fettled upon the island formed by the Naval and the Rhine; which was marly, and had fcv or no inhabitants. They gave the,name
anie of Bataviansnsnsnsnsns to their new country. Their govern B O0 K nient was a mixture of monarchy, aristocracy, and demo crack. Their chief was, properly speaking, nothing nitre than a principal citizen, whose office was rather to advise thar td command. The principal men who exercised jurisdiction anti commanded the troops in their respective liltritls, were chosen, as well as the kings, in a general assembly. A hundred persons, selected from among the people, presided over every country, and acted as chiefs in the different hamlets. The whole nation was, in frome ineafilre, an army always in readiness. Each family com pored a hod of militia, which served under a captain of its.own chusing. SUCH was the slate of Bataviansnsnsnsnsns, when Cefar passed the Alps. This Roman general defeated the Helvetia, fe. vernal tribes of the Gauls, the Belge and Germans, who had crossed the Rhine, and extended his conquests be yond that river. In consequence of this expedition the boldness and success of which were equally astonishing, the protection of the conqueror was courted on all sides. SOME writers, too zealous for the honour of their count try, affirm that the Bataviansnsnsnsnsns entered into an alliance with Rome ; but the truth is, they submitted on condition that they should be governed by their own laws, pay no tribute, and be obliged only to perform military services. Caesar soon distinguished the Bataviansnsnsnsnsns from the other nations that were subdued by the Romans. This con queror of the Gauls, when by Pompey's influence he was recalled to Rome, and refused to obey the senate's orders, when relying on the absolute authority which his conduct had at length given him over the legions and auxiliaries, he attacked his enemies in Spain, Italy, and Asia: at this juncture, sensible that the Bataviansnsnsnsnsns had a principal Share in his victories, he gave them the glorious appellation of the friends and brethren of the Roman people. Vol'. K AFTE?.
B 0 0 K AFTER this, irritated by the unjust proceedings of certain governors, they obeyed the dictates of that noble impulse, so becoming men of spirit, which prompts them to take arms to revenge an insult. They shewed them, selves as formidable as enemies, as they were faithful as allies; but there troubles subsiding, the Bataviansns were pacified, but not subdued. WHEN Rome, after having risen to a pitch of greatness unknown before, and which has never since been equalled by any slate, no longer retained those manly virtues and stria principles which were the ground-work of that noble superstructure; when their laws had lost their force, their armies, their discipline, and the citizens the love of their country: the barbarians; who by tie terror of the Roman name had been driven to the north where they had been confined by force to remain, poured like a torrent into the southern countries. The empire was torn il pieces, and the finest provinces became a prey to those whom the Romans had always either degraded or oppressed. The Flanks, in particular, seized upon the countries be. longing to the Gauls; and Bataviansns became a part of that extensive and famous kingdom, which was founded by there conquerors in the fifth century the new monarchy experienced those inconveniences which are almost inseparable from rising states; and are indeed too frequently felt in the hell established govern, ments. It was sometimes under the dominion of a single person; and at others was fubjcA to the caprice of i number of tyrants. It was constantly engaged either foreign wars, or exposed to the rage of intestine listen tions. Sometimes it made the neighbouring fates them able for their safety; but much oftener suffered from th incursions of the northern people who ravaged its pre vices. It was equally the victim of the weakness of si vernal of its princes, and of the unbounded ambition of the' favourites and ministers. The overbearing spirit of tt,plntiff
pontiffs, undermined the power of the throne, and their B o o K insolence brought both the laws and religion into disgrace Anarchy and tyranny followed each other so close, that the most sanguine despaired of ever seeing affairs put upon a tolerable footing. The glorious sera of Charles mnagne'9 government was only a transient gleam of light, As his great aaions were the effet of his genius, and not in the least owing to the influence of any good institutions after his death, affairs returned to that Rate of confusion from which they had been retrieved by his fa ther Pepin, and more particularly by his own endeavours. The French monarchy, the limits of which he had ex tended too far, Was divided. Germany, to which the Rhine served as a natural barrier, sell to the clare of one of his grandsons: and, by an unaccountable arrangement, Batavia, to which the Normans in their excursions, had a little before given the name of Holland, was included in that allotment. IN the beginning of the tenth century, the German branch of the Carlovinians became extinct. As the other princes of France had neither courage nor power to assert their rights, the Germans easily disengaged themselves from a foreign yoke. Those of the nation, who, by vir tue of a delegated power from the monarch, governed the five circles of which the state was composed, chose a chief out of their own body. This chief, fearing left these powerful men might be tempted to throw off their de penance, if any severer conditions were required of them, contented himself with their fidelity and homage, and exaAed only filch services as they were obliged to by the feudal laws. AT this memorable juncture, the counts of Holland, who, as well as the rest of the provincial chiefs, had hitherto exercised a precarious and dependent authority, obtained the same rights as the other great vassals of Germany: and as they afterwards enlarged their terris a tories
B O O K tories by conquest, marriages, and grants from the em,. emperors, they in time became totally independent of the empire. They were not equally successful in their un just attempts against the public liberty. Their filbjefi were not to be intimidated by force, cajoled by flattery, or corrupted by largesses. War and peace, taxes, laws, and treaties were managed by the three united powers of the count, the nobles, and the towns. The republican spirit frill prevailed in the nation, when by some extraordinary events, it sell under the dominion of the house of Burgundy, whole former power, though before confider able, was greatly strengthened by this re-union. TRess who had the sagacity to investigate probably. ties, foresaw, that this state, which was formed as it were by the gradual accretion of many others, would one day be of great weight in the political system of Europe. The genius of its inhabitants, its advantageous situation, and its real strength, afforded almost a certain prospect of its future greatness. These projects and expectations which were just ripening into realities, were disappointed by an event, which though it happens every day, never fails ts baffle the designs of ambition. The male line in that house became extina; and Mary, who was sole heiress to its dominions, by her marriage in 1477, transferred to the house of Austria the advantages that had been gained by several successful struggles, a great number of intrigue,, and some pas of injustice.,AT this ara so, famous in history, each of the fe. seventeen provinces of the Low Countries had particular laws, extensive privileges, and almost a rifling govern. ment. The excellent principle of union which equally contributes to the welfare and security both of empires and republics, was universally disregarded. The people having been, from time immemorial, accustomed it this slate of confusion, had no idea that it was possible ti enjoy a more rational form of government. This prejudice
dice was of Co long a standing, so generally adopted, B 0 0 K and so firmly established, that Maximilian, Philip and Charles, the three Austrian princes who first inherited the dominions of the house of Burgundy, thought it paul dent not to attempt any innovation. They flattered themselves, that some happier conjuncture might enable their successors to execute with safety a plan, which they. could not even attempt without danger. AT this time a great change was preparing in the nir rs iste minds of men in Europe. The revival of letters, the i'll, oT extension of commerce, the invention of printing and the discovery of the compass, brought on the era when human reason was to shake off the yoke of some ofthofc prejudices which had gained ground in the barbarous ages. The intelligent part of the world were for the most part cureless the Romish superstitions. They were disgusted at the abilfe the popes made of their authority; the contributions they raised upon the people; the sale of indulgences and more particularly at those absurd refine ments with which they had disguised the maple religion of Jesus Christ. BUT these discerning people were not the first who at tempted a revolution. This honour was reserved for a turbulent monk, whose barbarous eloquence rouzed the northern nations. Some of the most enlightened men of the age, contributed to undeceive the rest. Some of the European princes embraced the reformed religion; others held communion with the church of Rome. The former found no difficulty in bringing over their subjects to their opinions; while the latter had much ado to prevent theirs from embracing the new doctrines. They had recourse to a variety of measures which were too often pursued with rigour. That spirit of fanaticism, which had destroyed the Saxons, the Albigenses, and the Hussites, was revived.,K 3 Gibbets
B o 0 K Gibbets were erected and fires kindled anew, to check,1t.,the progress of the new doctrine. No sovereign was so ready to make use of these expel, diets as Philip II. His tyranny was felt in every part of his extensive monarchy; and his zeal for his religion prompted him to persecute all those who sell under the denomination of heretics or infidels. Designs were formed to deprive the inhabitants of the Low Countries of their privileges; and millions of citizens were condemned to the scaffold. The people revolted: and the same scene was renewed which the Venetians had shewn the world many centuries before, when flying from oppression, and finding no retreat upon land, they fought an asylum upon the waters. Seven small provinces lying on the northern side of Brabant and Slanders, which were rather overflowed than watered by large rivers, and often covered by the sea, whose violence was with difficulty refrained by dikes; having no wealth but what accrued from a few pastures lands, and a little filling; formed one of the richest and most powerful republics in the world; and which may, perhaps, be considered as the model of commercial states. The first efforts of this allied people had not the desired success; but though they were frequently defeated, they ended with victories. The Spanifh troops they had to encounter, were the best in Europe, and at first gained several advantages. But by degrees the new republicans recovered their losses. They resifted with firmness; and gaining experience from their own miscarriages, as well as from the exemple of their enemies, they at length he came their superiors in the art of war: and the necessity they lay under of disputing every inch of ground in so confined a country as Holland, gave them opportunities of improving the art of fortifying a country or a town is the best manner. Tna weak slate of Holland, at its first rise, obliged it to feck for arius and assistance from every quarter where,thler:
there was any prosper of obtaining it. · It granted an afy- B 0 0 K lum to pirates of all nations, with a view of employing, y them against the Spaniards; and this was the foundation of their naval strength. Wise laws, an admirable order, a constitution which preserved equality among mankind, an excellent police and a spirit of toleration, soon erected this republic into a powerful state, In the year 1590, the Hollanders more than once humbled the pride of the Spanish flag. They had already established a kind of trade, the nor suitable that could be to their situation. Their vessels were employed as they are till, in carrying the merchandize of one nation to another. The Hanse Towns, and some towns in Italy, were in possession of there transports: and the Hollanders, in competition with them, by their frugality soon gained the advantage. Their lips of war protected their mer clansmen. Their merchants grew ambitious of extend ing their commerce: and got the trade of Lilbon into their hands, where they purchased Indian goods which they sold again to all the Rates of Europe. PHILIP II. having made himself matter of Portugal, enjoined his new subject in 1594 to hold no correspondence with his enemies. This arbitrary prince did not foresee that this prohibition, which he thought must weaken the Hollanders, would in faa render them more formidable. Had not there discerning navigators been excluded from a port, upon which the whole success of their naval enterprizes depended, there is reason to believe that they would have contented themselves with the large commerce they carried on in the European leas, without thinking of failing to remoter climates. But as it was impossible to preserve their trade without the productions of the eaR, they were forced to go beyond a sphere which was, perhaps, too confined for a situation like theirs; and resolved to seek their riches at the found tain-head.,K 4 IT
B o o K IT appeared to be the best plan to fit out Ships, and fend them to India: but the Hollanders wanted pilots who The first were acquainted with the leas, and factors who understood the"C'i'f the commerce of Asia. They were alarmed at the danger dm to In of making long voyages, where the enemy was master of,the coasts, and of having their vessels intercepted during a passage of fix thousand leagues. It was judged more advisable to attempt the discovery of a passage to China and Japan through the northern seas, which would be Shorter as well as more wholesome and secure. The Eng- .ii had made the attempt in vain: and the Hollanders renewed it with no better success. WHILE they were engaged in this enterprize, Cornelius Houtman, a merchant of that nation, a man of a penetrating and daring genius, being detained at Lilbon for debt, gave the merchants at Amsterdam to understand, that if they would procure his enlargement, he would communicate to them many discoveries he had made,,wlhich might turn to their advantage. He had in fa informed himself every particular relating to the passage to India, and the manner of carrying on trade in those parts. His proposals were accepted, and his debts discharged. The information he gave proving answerable to the expectations he had raised, those who had released him from his confinement, formed an association under the name of the Company distant Countries, and gave him the corn and of four vessels to conduct hem to India by the Cape of Good Hope. THE principal objet of this voyage was to observe the coats, the inhabitants and the trade of different place, avoiding, as much as possible, the Portuguese settlements Houtman reconnoitred the coasts of Africa and Brazil made sone stay at Madagascar, touched at the Maladies and visited the islands of Sunda: where finding the country abounding in pepper, he bought a quantity of it, toge ,her with some others of the nioft valuable spices. Imprudence
prudence procured him an alliance with the prin B O K cipal sovereign of Java; but the Portuguese, notwithstanding they were hated, and had no settlement upon the island, created him some enemies. Having got the better in some skirmishes he was unavoidably engaged in, he returned with his small squadron to Holland; where, though he brought little wealth, he raised much expedition He brought away some negroes, Chinese, and in habitants of Malabar, a young native of Malacca, a Japanese and Abdul a pilot of the Guzurat, a man of great abilities, and perfectly well acquainted with the coast of India. THE account given by Houtman, and the discoveries made in the course of the voyage, encouraged the mer chants of Amsterdam to form the plan of a settlement at Java, which, at .the same time that it would throw the trade of pepper into their hands, place them near the islands that produce more valuable spices, and facilitate their communication with China and Japan, would fix them at a distance from the centre of that European power, which they had the most reason to dread in India. Admiral Van Neck, who was sent upon this important expedition with eight vessels, arrived at the island of Java, where he found the inhabitants prejudiced against his nation. They fought and negotiated by turns. Abdul the pilot, the Chinese, and above all the hatred that prevailed against the Portuguese, proved of service to the Dutch. They were permitted to trade, and, in a short time, fitted out four vessels laden with spices and some linens. The admiral, with the rest of his fleet, failed to the Moluccas, where he learnt that the natives of the country had forced the Portuguese to abandon some places, and that they only waited for a favourable opportunity of expelling them from the rest. He established factories ill several of there islands, entered into treaty with some of the sovereigns, and returned to Europe laden with riches.,Ii
B 0 0 K IT is impossible to describe the joy that prevailed at hi, return. The success of his voyage raised a fresh emulation. Societies were formed in most of the maritime and trading towns in the low countries. These associations Coon became so numerous, that they injured each other: as the rage of purchasing raised the value of commodities to an exorbitant degree in India, and the necessity of selling them made them bear a low price in Europe. They were on the point of being ruined by their own efforts, and by the want of power in each of them to refit a formidable enemy, fully bent upon their destruction: when the go. government, which is sometimes wiser than individuals, opportunely stepped in to their affiance. EB,.1;fh- IN 160o the states general united these different societies et Cos he Ind into one body, to which they gave the name of All Fmy. India Company. It was invested with authority to marketplace or war with the eastern princes, to ere forts, chuse their own governors, maintain garrisons, and to nominate officers for the conduce of the police, and the administration justice. THIS company, which had no parallel in antiquity, and was the pattern of all succeeding societies of the faine kind, set out with great advantages. The private also. citations which had been previously formed, proved of service to it by their misfortunes, and even by their mistakes The great number of vessels which they fitted out had contributed to make all the branches of trade per. fitly understood; to form many officers and seamen; and to encourage citizens of repute to undertake these foreign expeditions; persons only of no estimation or fortune having been exposed in the first voyages. So many united assistances could not fail of being im proved to advantage, when prosecuted with vigour; and, accordingly, the new company soon acquired a confider able degree of power. It was a new Late, ereaed within the flare itself, which enriched it, and increased its,ftrcigtlo
strength abroad; but might, in time, weaken the in B o 0 a fluence of the democratical principle, which inspires the love of equality and parsimony, of the laws, and of one's own countrymen. Soon after its establishment, the company fitted out for India fourteen ships and some yachts, under the com and of Admiral Warwick, whom the Hollanders look upon as the founder of their commerce, and of their pow erful colonies in the east. He built a factory in the island of Java, and secured it by fortifications; he likewise built another in the territories of the king of Johor; and formed alliances with several princes in Bengal. He had frequent engagements with the Portuguese, in which he had almost always the advantage. In those parts where the Portuguese had appeared in the character of merchants only, he found it necessary to remove the prejudices they had raise against his countrymen, whom they had represented as a set of banditti, avowed enemies to all regal authority, and added to all manner of vices. The behaviour of the Hollanders and the Portuguese soon con winced the people of Aia which of thee nations had the advantage in point of manners. A bloody war soon en sued between these two powers. THa Portuguese had on their side the advantage of a Wars the hollanders thorough knowledge of these seas; they were accustomed and Portico the climate, and had the assistance of several nations, gulf'. which, though they hated them, were compelled through fear to fight for their oppressors. The Hollanders were animated by the critical situation (.f their affairs; by the hopes of procuring an absolute and lasting independency, which at present they could not boast of; by the ambition of establishing a vast commerce upon the ruins of that of their old mailers; and by the hatred which a difference in religious opinions had rendered implacable. These pas sons, at the same time that they inspired all the activity, length, and perseverance necessary for the execution of,2 great
B 0 K great designs, did not hinder them from taking their, measures with precaution. Their humanity and lionelly,attached the people to their cause and many of them loon declared against their ancient oppressors. THE Hollanders were continually sending over fresh colonel, Ships and troops, while the Portuguese were left without any forces but their own. Spain did not send them any fleets of merchant men, or grant them the protection of the squadron which had hitherto been kept in India; She neither repaired their places of strength, or renewed their garrisons. It Should seem that She wanted to humble her new subjects whom She thought not so submissive ap might be wished, and to perpetuate her author. city by exposing them to repeated losses. She proceeded still further; and to prevent the Portuguese from deriving any succours from home, seized upon the inhabitants and sent them to Italy, Slanders, and other countries where .he was, at war. Notwithstanding this, the scale continued even for a long time, and the success was various on both sides. Nor is this at all surprizing. The Portuguese, on their arrival in India, had nothing to encounter at sea but a few weak vessels, ill built, ill armed and ill defended; nothing by land but effeminate men, voluptuous princes and dastardly slaves: whereas those who came to wrest the sceptre of Alia out of their hands, had vessels to board of the same confusion as their own; regular fortresses to assault, and to conquer and subdue Europeans, grown haughty by a long series of victories, and by being the founders of an immense empire the time was now come, when the Portuguese were to expiate their perfidy, their robberies and their cruelties: and the prediction of one of the kings of Persia was ful filled, who asking an ambassador just arrived at Goa, how many governors his mester had beheaded since the establishment of his pOTwi in India, received for answer,,Nie
,one at all. So much the worse, replied the monarch, his B 0 0 K authority tangot be of long duration in a country where f o many adds of outrage and barbarity are committed. IT does not, however, appear, in the course of this war,, that the Hollanders possessed that daring rashness, that unshaken intrepidity, which had marked the enterprizes of the Portuguese; but there was a consistency and unremitting perseverance observable in all their designs. Often repulsed, but never discouraged, they renewed their at tempts with fresh vigour and on a better plan. They ne ver exposed themselves to the danger of a total defeat If, in any engagement, their Ships had suffered, they steered off; and as they never lost fight of their commercial interests; the vanquished fleet, while it was repairing on the coasts belonging to some of the Indian princes, purchased merchandise, and returned to Holland. By this method the company acquired a new fund which enabled them to undertake fresh enterprizes If the Hollanders did not always perform great aaions, they never at tempted useless ones. They had neither the pride nor the vain glory of the Portuguese, who had frequently en gaged in war rather perhaps through the love of same than of power. The Hollanders steadily pursued their first plan without suffering themselves to be diverted from it either by motives of revenge, or projects of conquest. IN the year 1607, they endeavoured to open a communication with the ports belonging to the vast empire of China, which, at that time, was cautious of admitting strangers. The Portuguese found means, by bribery, and the intrigues of their missionaries, to get the Hollanders excluded. They resolved to extort by force what they could not obtain by intreaty, and determined to inter kept the vessels belonging to the Chinese. This piratical proceeding did not answer their expectations. A Portuguese fleet failed from Macao to attack the pirates who thought proper to retire. The inequality of their num-,bers,
B 0 O K boers, the impossibility of resitting in seas where they had > . no shelter, and the fear of committing the character of,their nation in the eyes of a great empire whose good opi. non it was their interest to preserve; all these confider. tions determined them to decline the rencounter: but this was only for a Short time. SOME years after the Hollanders besieged a place of which they had learned the importance. The enterprize did not succeed; but as they never lost any advantage that could be gained by their armaments, they sent that which they had employed against Macao to form a colony in the Pifcadore-ifles. These are rocks where no water is to be had in dry seasons, and no provisions at any time. There Inconveniences were not counterbalanced by any solid advantages, because the people of the neighbour. ing continent were forbidden, on the severest penalties, to hold any correspondence with strangers which might be dangerous so near the coasts. The Hollanders had determined to abandon a settlement which-they despaired of making Useful, when, in the year i6z42 they were in cited to fix at Formosa, and had assurances given them that the Chinese merchants would be allowed full liberty to go there and trade with them. The Hot THIS island, though it lies opposite to the province of d-lufcr m Fokien, at the distance of only thirty leagues from the tI'mfnt coast, was not subjea to the dominion of the Chinese,,whose genius does not incline them to conquest, and who, through an inhuman and ill-judged policy, would rather sussex a decrease of population, than transplant their fu supernumerary fubjeas to the neighbouring countries. Formosa was found to be a hundred and thirty or forty leagues in circumference. Its inhabitants, if we may judge from their manners and their appearance, seemed to be descended from the Tartars in the most northern part of Asia: and probably found their way through the,country
country of Core. They lived chiefly by fishing and B O O K hunting, and went almost naked, THE Hollanders, having, without difficulty informed themselves of every particular that prudence suggested, thought it most advisable to fix their settlement on a small island that lay contiguous to the larger one. This situation afforded them three considerable advantages; they could easily defend themselves if hatred jealousy should incline their neighbours to give them any disturbance the two islands afforded them an harbour, and they could easily carry on a safe communication with China during the Monsoons; which they could not have done in any other position they could have pitched upon. THE new colony insensibly gained strength without at trading any notice, 'till it rose at once to a degree of consequence that astonished all Asia. This unexpected prosperity was owing to the conquest of China by the Tartars. Thus it is that torrents enrich the vallies with the stores they carry down from the desolated mountains. Above a hundred thousand Chinese, who resolved not to submit to the conqueror, fled for refuge to Formosa. They carried with them that activity which is peculiar to their character, the manner of cultivating rice and sugar, and were the means of drawing thither from their own nation an infinite number vessels. In a short time the island became the centre of all the correspondence that was carried on between Java, Siam, the Philippine islands, China, Japan and the rest of those countries; and in a few years was considered as the first mart in India. The Hollanders flattered themselves with the prosper of still greater advantages; but fortune deceived their expectations A CHiNESE, called Equal, of obscure birth, whose turbulent disposition had made him turn pirate, had at gained, by the strength of his talents, to the rank of high admiral. He defended his country against the Tartars,for
B 0 K for a considerable time, but seeing his master obliged to I - submit, he endeavoured to make terms for himself with,the conquerors. He was decoyed to Pekin where he was seized, and condemned by the usurper to perpetual impri. foment, in which he is supposed to have died of poison. Coming saved himself on board his father's fleet, vowed eternal enmity to the oppressors of his family and country, and concluded he Should be able to take the severest re venge upon them, if he made himself master of Formosa. He made a descent upon it, and the minister Hambroeck was taken prisoner in the attempt. Bello appointed with fame other prisoners to be sent to the fort of Zealand, to prevail with his countrymen to capitulate, this republican called to mind the example of Regulus; he exhorted them to be firm, and used every argument to persuade them that if they strenuously per. fevered, they would oblige the enemy to retire. The garrison being aware that this generous man would, on his return to the camp, fall a sacrifice to his magna. misty, used their utmost efforts to detain him. Their remonstrances were seconded by the tenderest solicitations of two of his daughters, who were in the citadel. His answer was, I have pleased my honour to return to my con finement: I hold myself obliged to perform my promise. My memory shall never be sullied with the reproach, that out of regard to my own safety I was the cause of severer treatment, or perhaps of death, to the companions of my misfortune. After this heroic speech he calmly returned to the Chinese camp, and the siege began. Notwithstanding the fortifications were in a bad condition, and the fort ill stored with ammunition and provisions; notwithstanding the garrison was weak, and the succours sent to attack the enemy had retreated with disgrace, Covet the governor made an obstinate defence. In the beginning of the year 1662, being forced to capitulate he repaired to Batavia, where his superiors watercourse
recourse to those iniquitous state-intrigues which are free o0 K quietly praised ii all governments. They cast reflexion Gus upon his conduct, to prevent any suspicion that the loss of so important a settlement was owing to their own folly, or negligence. The attempts made to recover it, proved unsuccessful; and the Hollanders were at last reduced to the necessity of carrying on a trade with Canton on the same conditions, and under the same restrictions as other nations: IT may appear somewhat singular, that fine the year 1683 when Formosa sell under the dominion of China; no Europeans have ever attempted to form aL-y settlement there, upon the same conditions at least, as that of the Portuguese at Macao. But betides that the suspicious temper of the nation to whom that island belongs, gives no room to expect such a piece of complaisance from them, one may venture to pronounce that such an enter. prise would be a bad one. Formosa was a place of im portance only ro long as the Japanese had a communication with it, ard its produce was allowed a free importa tion into Japan. THE Hollanders seemed to be for ever excluded frorii this empire: After some unsuccessful attempts; they began to despair of getting any footing there; when one bs their captains, who was thrown upon the coasts of Japan by a torn in cog, informed them that the people were favourably disposed towards them. ABout a century before this; the government bs Japati Trade Ps had been changed. A magnanimous people had been the Hollanders to made furious by a tyrant. Taycofama who from a fol Japan. tier became a general, and from a general an emperor, had usurped the whole power, and abolished all heights of the people; Having stripped the Cairo of the little re mains of his authority, he had reduced all the petty princes of the country under his subjection. Tyranny is arrived at its height when it establisHes despotism by law. Tayco- VOL. I. L fama
E o0 K fama went still further, and strengthened it by sanguinary, laws. Iiis civil legislation was actually a code of crime. nat prosecutions, exhibiting nothing but scaffolds, punishments criminals, aloud executioners. THE Japanese, alarmed at this prospect of savory, had recourse to arms. Torrents of blood were shed through. out the empire: and though liberty might be supposed to be f\ipcrior in courage to tyranny, the latter triumph over it. Tyranny became fill more ferocious, when ani mated by the spirit of revenge. An inquisition, public as well as private, dismayed the citizens; they became spies, ini'-,rmers, accusers, and enemies to each other. An error in the administration of the police was confirmed into a crime against the state; and an unguarded expression wa; made high-treason. Persecution assumed the character of Legislation. Three successive generations were doomed to welter in their own blood ; and rebel parents gave life to a proscribed posterity. DURIeC a whole century, Japan resembled a dungeon filled with criminals, or a place of execution. The throne, which was planted upon the ruins of the altar, was surrounded :with gibbets. The subjects were become as cruel as their tyrant. They fought, with a strange avidity to procure death, by committing crimes which were readily suggested under a despotic government. For want of executioners, they punished themselves for the loss of liberty, or revenged themselves of tyranny by putting an end to their own existence. To enable them to face death, and to assist them in suffering it, they derived new con rage from christianity, which the Portuguese had intro duce amongst them. THE oppressions the Japanese laboured under afforded an opportunity for the professors of this new worship make numerous proselytes. The missionaries who preached a suffering religion, were listened to with attention. It vain did the doctrine of Confucius try to gain receptic,arnon
among a people who bordered upon China. Some error O O K heous tenets of christianity, which bore a considerable affinity to those of the Btldzoifts, and the penances, equally enjoined by the two systems, procured the Portuguese missionaries several proselytes. But setting aside this re semblance, the Japanese would have chosen to embrace christianity merely from a motive of hatred to the prince. IF the new religion was discountenanced at court, it could not fail to meet with a favourable reception in the families of the dethroned princes. It added fresh fuel to their resentment: they were fond of a strange God whom the tyran did not love. Taycofama ruled with a rod of iron, and persecuted the christians as enemies to the fate. He proscribed the doctrines imported from Europe, and this proscription made them strike the deeper root, Piles were kindled, and millions of victims threw themselves into the flames. The emperors of Japan transcended those of Rome in the art of persecuting the christians, During the space of forty years the scaffolds were stained with the innocent blood of martyrs. This proved the feed of christianity, and of sedition also. Near forty thousand christians in the kingdom or province of Daring took up arms in the name, and for the name of Christ; and de fended themselves with such fiery, that not a single person survived the slaughter occasioned by persecution. THE navigation, trade, and factories of the Portuguese were preserved during this great crisis. The court and the people had, however, for a long time, been jealous of them; they had incurred the suspicion of government by their ambition, their intrigues, and perhaps by their secret conspiracies: and had rendered themselves odious to the people by their avarice, their pride, and their treachery. But as the merchandise they brought was grown into fashion, and could nor be procured by any other channel, they were not excluded from Japan till theol end
B oo RK end of the year 1638; when other merchants were in a, situation to supply their place the Hollanders, who had, for some time, entered into competition with them, were not involved in the disgrace As there republicans had never shewn themselves ambitious of interfering with the government; as they had suffered their artillery to be employed against the christians as they were at war with the proscribed nation; as their strength was not thoroughly known, and they appeared to be reserved, pliant, modest, and intirely devoted to commerce; they were tolerated, though at the same time they were subjected to great restraints. Three years after, whether it was that the spirit of intrigue and dominion seized them, or, which is more probable, that no conduct whatever could prevent the Japanese from harbouring suspicions, they were deprived of the liberty and the pri. visages they enjoyed. Even since the year 1641, they have been confined to the artificial island of Difnia, raised in the harbour of Nangafaque, and which has a communication with the city bridge. A- soon as they arrive, their Ships are stripped, by a and their powder, muskets, swords, guns, and even rudder, carried ashore. In this kind of imprisonment thee are treated with a degree of contempt which is beyond conception; and can transit no burners but with com miseries appointed to regulate the price and the quantity of their merchandise. It is impossible that the tameness with which they have endured this treatment more than a century, should not have lessened them in the eyes of the nation, who is witness of it; and that the love of gain should have produced such an extreme insensibility to insults, without tarnishing their character. TaE chief commodities which the Dutch carry to Japan are European cloths, silks, spices, printed linens, sugar, and dyer's wood. These articles were formerly of considerable importance. In the very year of the company's,difgrac,;
disgrace, its returns amounted to sixteen millions: but B 0 0 K the Shackles, which from time to time have been imposed upon it, have gradually reduced their once flourishing trade to nothing. The cargo of the two vessels they send annually, cannot be sold for more than a million b. They receive in payment eleven thousand chests of copper, at forty-one livres four fols c per shelf, which weighs one hundred and twenty pounds. Their expences, including presents and the charge of the embassy they send every year to the emperor, generally amount to two hundred and eighty thousand livres d, and their profits do not exceed three hundred and ten thousand c; so that if the company gains forty thousand livres f, it is reckoned a good year. THE trade of the Chinese, who, except the Hollanders, gre the only foreigners admitted into the empire, is not more extensive than theirs, and subjected to the same restrictions. Ever since the year 1683 they are confined during the continuance of the sale of their goods, without the walls of Nangafaque, in a kind of prison, which is divided into several huts, surrounded with a palisade, and defended by a good ditch, and a guard placed at all the gates. These precautions have been taken in consequence of a discovery that some works, in favour of chris tiapity, had been sold together with some books of philo sophy and morality. The European missionaries had ordered some people of Canon to circulate them, and the desire of gain betrayed them into a piece of chicanery, which has cot them very dear. IT is natural to suppose, that those who have changed the ancient government of the country into the most arbi tray tyranny upon earth, would look upon all intercourse with strangers as dangerous to their authority. There is the more reason for this conjecture, as the inhabitants ·7,o,^l.' '. 43,75: 1 . 11 . s d. 5. zd ,2S0o * A.b.tl 131,67L * 1,75oL,L 3 are
B 0 0 K a- all forbidden, on pain of death, to go out of their . . country. This rigorous edit is become the fundamental maxim of the empire. THUS the inhuman policy of the state has deprived it of the only means of acquiring a milder temper, by softening the national character. The Japanese, fiery as his climate, and restless as the ocean that surrounds him, required that the utmost scope (hould be given to his activity, which could only be done by encouraging a brisk trade. To prevent the necessity of restraining him by punishments, it was necessary to keep him in exercise by constant labour; and to allow his vivacity an uninterrupted career abroad, when it was in danger of kindling the flame of sedition at home. That energy of mind which has degenerated into fanaticism, would have bcha improved into industry; contemplation would have changed into action; and the fear of punishment into the lave of pleasure. Instead of leading a detested the, fettered, abused, and maddened by a constant struggle with the severe restraints of law, the Japanese would have been led by curiosity to traverse the ocean, and vii: foreign nations. By a frequent change of place and ciir.ate hc would insensibly have changed t.: manners, opinion, and character; and this change-gould have been as happy for him as it is for the gene reality of people. What he may chance to lose by this intercourse as a citizen, he will gain as a man: but the Japanese are become ygers through the cruelty of their tyrants. WHATEVER may be fad in praise of the Spartans, the-egyptians, and other distinct nations, who have owed their superior strength., grandeur, and permanency to the state of separation in which they kept themselves; human kiadhas recti-ed no benefit from these singular institutions. On the contr ipsa, te spri of intercourse is useful to all actions, as :; promote; a rnutuzl communication of their productions :n;d h.c.vleiug. tn a word, if it were utelefs,or
or pernicious to some particular people, it was necessary B O O K for the Japanese. By commerce they would have become enlightened in China, civilized in India, and cured of all their prejudices among the Europeans. THE Dutch had the good fortune to have resources The Mn which indemnified them fir the loss they had sustained at l;Ucc' ibn Japan. They had rotyet entered into commerce with these, Du.: the nobs remarkable islands in the torrid Zone, when. they attempted to secure to themselves that of the Mo lucca. Tile Portuguele, who had long been in possession of them, were obliged to share their advantages with their mailers the Spaniards; and, at length, to give up the trade almost entirely to them. The two nations, divided in their interests, and perpetually at war with each other, because the government had neither leisure nor art to remove their mutual antipathy, united to oppose the subjects of the United Provinces. Tile latter, assisted by the natives of the country, who had not yet learned to fear or hate them, by degrees gained the superiority. The an tient conquerors revere driven out about the year 16z7; and their place wgs supplied by others equally avaricious, though ifs turbulent, and better instructed. As soon as th. Dutch had established themselves firmly at the Moluccas, they endeavoured to get the exclusive* trade of spices into their own hands: an advantage, which the nation they had just expelled was never able to pro cure. They skilfully availed themselves both of the forts they had taken sword in hand, and those they had im prudently been suffered to erect, to draw the king's of Ternate and Tudor, who were matters of this Archipelago, into their scheme. These princes found themselves ob lived to content, that the clove and nutmeg trees should be rooted up in the islands that were still under their dominion. The first of these sceptered slaves, in confider action of this great sacrifice, received a pension of +6,5jc,L 4 livics
B O O K livres,; and the other one of about ,ooo000b. Agarrifon,of seven hundred men was appointed to secure the perform ance of this treaty: and to so low an ebb was the power of these kings reduced by war, tyranny, and misfortunes, that these forces would be more than sufficient to keep them in this state of dependance, if it were not necessary to have an eye upon the Philippine islands, whose vicinity constantly occasions rome alarm. Notwithstanding the inhabitants are prohibited from carrying on any navigation and that no foreign nation is admitted among them; the Dutch trade there is in a languishing state; as they have no means of exchange, nor any fiver but what they carry over to pay their troops. their commissioners and pensions. This government, deducing the finally profits, costs the company 140,000 livres c.a-year. THIS loss is fully compensated at Amboyna, where they have engrossed the cultivation of cloves. The tree that produces them is, as to its bark, very much like the olive-tree, and resembles the laurel in its height and the shape of its leaves. It produces at the extremity of its numerous branches, a prodigious quantity of flowers, which are white at first, then green, and at last grow red and pretty hard. When they arrive at this degree of maturity, they are, properly speaking, cloves. As it dries, the clove assumes a dark yellowish cast; when gathered, it becomes of a deep brown. No verdure is ever seen under this plant, which is doubtless owing to its exhausting all the nutritious juices of the soil that produces it. THE season for gathering the cloves is from October to February. They shake the boughs of the tree forci ably, or beat down the cloves with long reeds. Large cloths are spread to receive them, and they are after wards either dried in the fun, or in the smoke of the bamboo cane about z,8zll. b 5zL5. 6,1i5L,rHE
THE cloves which escape the notice of those who gather B 0 0 K them, or are purposely left upon the tree, continue to , grow till they are about an inch in thickness and these falling off, produce new plants, which do not bear in less than eight or nine years. These cloves, which they call mother-cloves, though inferior to the common fort, are not without their value. The Dutch preserve them in sugar, and, in long voyages, eat them after meals to pro mote digestion; or make use of them as an agreeable re mede for the scurvy. The clove, to be in perfection, must be full sized, heavy, oily and easily broken; of a fine smell, and a hot aromatic taste, so as almost to burn the throat; it should make the fingers smart when handled, and leave an oily moisture upon them when pressed. The principle tfe of it is for culinary purposes. In some part of Eu rope, and in India in particular, it is so much admired as to be thought an indispensable ingredient in almost every dish. It is put into their food, liquors, wines, and enters likewise into the composition of perfumes. It is little used in medicine; but there is an oil extracted from it which is in considerable repute. .THe company have allotted the inhabitants four thou sand parcels of land, on each of which they were at first allowed, and about the year 1720 compelled, to plant a hundred and twenty-five trees, amounting in the whole to five hundred thousand. Each of these parcels produces annually, on an average, upwards of two pounds of cloves: and consequently the cleave produce must weigh more than a million. THE cultivator is paid with the cash that is constantly returned to the company, and receives some blue and un bleached cottons which are brought from Coromandel. This small trade might, in some measure, be increased, if the inhabitants of Amboina, and the finally islands that de pend upon it, would have attended to the culture of,pepper
B O O K pepper and indigo, which has been tried with fuccers.,Miserable as these islanders are, as they are not tempted by an adequate reward for their labours, they remain in a state of indolence. THE administration is somewhat different in the islands of Banda, which are thirty leagues distant from Amboyna. There are five of there islands, two of which are uncultiva. ted and almost uninhabited ; and the other three claim the distinction of being the only islands in the world that produce the nutmeg. THE nutmeg grows to the same height as the pear-tree. It has a pithy wood, an ash-coloured bark, and flexible branches. The leaves are produced in pairs upon one single stem, and when bruised, emit an agreeable odeur. The fruit succeeds the flowers, which resemble those of the cherry-tree. It is of the size of an egg, and of the colour of an apricot. The outer rind is very thick, and resembles that of our nuts as they hang upon the tree, opening in the same manner when ripe, and discovering the nutmeg covered with its trace. It is then time to gather it to prevent the mace or shower of the nutmeg from growing dry, and the nutmeg from losing that oil which preserves it, and in which its excellence consists. Those that are gathered before they are perfectly ripe are preferred in vinegar or sugar, and are admired only in Asia. IT is nine months before this fruit comes to perfection. After it is gathered, the outer rind is stripped off, and the mace separated from it, and laid in the fun to dry. The nuts require more preparation. They 're spread upon hurdles, or dried for fix weeks by a flew fire, in sheds erected for that psnrpcfe. They are then separated from the 'hell, and thrown into lime-water, which is a nccei- far precaution to preserve them grimm worms. THE nutmeg differ in goodness according to the age of the tree, the i ci, . composition, and method of cul-ture,
tore. It is moll esteemed when it is fresh, moist, heavy, B 0O K and when it yields an oily juice upon being pricked. It helps digestion, expels wind, and strengthens the bowels. IF we except this valuable spice, the islands banda, like all the Moluccas, are barren to a dreadful degree. What they produce in superfluities they want in necessaries The land will not bring forth any kind of corn and the pith of the sago serves the natives of the country instead of bread. As this food is not sufficient for the Europeans who fettle in the Moluccas, they are allowed to fetch provtlons from Java, Macassar, or the extremely fertile island of Bali. The company itself carries some commodities to banda. Tilts is the only settlement in the East Indies that can be considered as an European colony; Because it is the only one where the Europeans are proprietors of lands. The company taking it into their heads that the inhabitants of Banda were savage, cruel, and treacherous, be cause they were impatient under their yoke, resolved to exterminate them. Their possessions were divided among the white people, who got slaves from some of the neigh pouring islands to cultivate the lands. These white people are for the most part Creoles or Malcontents, who have quitted the service of the company. In the finally isle of Ringing, there are likewise several banditti, whom the laws have branded with disgrace, and young men of abandoned principles, whose families wanted to get rid of them: so that Banda is called the plaint of correction. The climate is so unhealthy, that these unhappy wretches live but a short time. It is on account of the loss of so great a number of hands, that attempts have been made to transfer the culture of the nutmeg to Ammonia, and ite company were likewise probably influenced by two other strong-motives of interest, as their trade could be carried on with less expence and greater safety. But the,expcri-
P 0 0 K experiments that have been made have proved unfucccfs., ful, and matters remain in their former state.,To secure to themselves an exclusive title to the product of the Moluccas, which are, with good reason, filled the gold mines of the company, the Dutch have been under: necessity of forming two settlements, one at Timor, ant the other at Celebes. Tlhetmch THe first of these sands is sixty leagues long, and sis,m - teen or eighteen broad. It is divided into several sovereign .i=or. ties; in which there are numbers of Portuguese. Thefi,conquerors, who at their first arrival in India, hat advanced with bold and unconscionable irides, and ha( pursued a long and dangerous career with a rapidity which nothing could stop; who were so well accustomed to aft of heroism, that they performed the molt arduous enter prizes with ease; these conquerors, I say, when they wcr attacked by the Dutch, when their whole empire, growl too large, and tottering under its own weight, was read to fall, displayed none of those virtues which had laid th foundation of their power. When they were difpollcffe of a fort, driven out of a kingdom, dispersed in confer quench of a defeat, they should have fought an asylum anon their brethren, and should have rallied under standard that had hitherto been invincible; either to put a flop t the progresS of the enemy, or to recover their settlements but so far were they from forming a resolution so generous that they solicited some employment, or some censor from those very Indian princes they had so often insulted Those who had contracted a habit of effeminacy and idle nefs above the rest, retreated to Minor, which, being poor island, where no works of industry were carried or would fkrcen them they thought from the pursuit of a enemy intent upon useful conquests. 'Thy were, however deceived. In the year 1613 they were driven from li town of Kupan by the Dutch, who found a fort tlicr which they have ever since garrisoned with fifty men. TI,2 colljpal
company sends rome coarse linens thither every year, B 0 0 K and receives in return wax, tortoiseshell, sanders wood, and radiant, a shall species of bean, commonly used by the Dutch on ship-board, by way of variety of food for the crew. All these object employ one or two sloops, which are dispatched from Batavia: nothing is either gained or lost by this settlement; the profits just answer the expences. Tie Dutch would have abandoned Timor long ago, if they had not been apprehensive that some alive nation might fix there, and avail themselves of the opportunities that situation would give them to disturb the trade of the Moluccas. It was the same cautious prin ciple which drew them to Celebes. THIS island, which is about a hundred and thirty leagues The Dtch,-make them in diameter, is very habitable, though it lies in the centre f,.ls mar of the torrid Zone. The heats are allayed by the co très of Ce pious rains, and cooling breezes. The inhabitants are the bravest people in the south of Asia; they make a furious onset, but, after a contest of two hours, a total want of courage takes place of this strange impetuosity: the intoxicating fumes of opium, which are doubtless the cause of this terrible ferment, go off, when their strength is ex hailed by transports that approach to madness. The rid, which is their favourite weapon, is a foot and a half long; it is shaped like a poniard, and the blade is serpentine They never carry more than one to battle; but in private quarrels two are necessary: they parry with that in the left hand, and attack the adversary with the other. The wounds made by this weapon are very dangerous, and the duel most commonly ends in the death of both the combatants. THE inhabitants of Celebes are rendered active, indus tlious, and robust, by a rigid education. Every hour in the day their nurses rub them with oil, orwaterjuft warm. These repeated unions encourage nature to exert herself finely. They are weaned at a year old, all idea prevailing,,that
3 0 0 that if they continued to fuck any longer, it would hurt, - their understandings. When they are five or fix years old,,the male children of any distension are intrusted to the care of some relation or friend, that their courage may not be weakened by the caresses of their mothers, and a habit of reciprocal tenderness. They do not return to their families till they arrive at the age of fifteen or sixteen, when the law allows them to marry: a liberty they seldom make use of, before they are thoroughly versed in the exercise of arms. FORMERLY there people acknowledged no other gods but the fun aid the moon. They sacrificed to them in the public squares, having no materials which they though! valuable enough to be employed in raising temples. Ac cording to the creed of these islanders, the fun and moon were eternal as well as the heavens, whose empire they divided. Ambition set them at variance. The moon, flying from the fun, miscarried, and was delivered of the earth; she was big with several other worlds which She will successively bring forth, but without violence, in order to repair the loss of those whom the fire of her con queror will confirme.,THESE absurdities were universally received at Ce lees; but they had not so lasting an influence over either the nobles or the people as is found in the religious doctrines of other nations. About two centuries ago, same christians and mahometan having brought their opinions hither, the principal king of the country took a total dislike to the national worship. Alarmed at the terrible catastrophe, with which he wia equally threatened by both the new systems of religion, he convened a general assembly. On the day appointed he ascended an eminence; where spreading out his hands towards heaven, and, in a sanding posture, he address the following prayer to the Supreme Being.,"· Great
GREAT God, I do not, at this time, fall down be B O O K ' fore thee, because I do not implore thy clemency. I ' , have nothing to ask of thee which thou oughtn't not in justice to grant. Two foreign nations whose worship is widely different, are come to strike terror into me, and my subjects. They assure me that thou wilt pu nisi me eternally if I do not obey thy laws: I have "therefore a right to require that thou wouldest make them known to me. I do not alk thee to reveal the im penetrable mysteries which surround thy essence, and which to me are useless. I am come hither to inquire, : together with my people, what those duties are which " thou intended to prescribe to us. Speak, O my God; since thou art the Author of nature, thou canst discern the bottom of our hearts, and knowest that it is im possible they should entertain any thoughts of disobedience But if thou condescended not to make thy self understood by mortals; if it is unworthy of thine essence to employ the language of man to dictate the "duties required of man; I call my whole nation, the fun which enlightens me, the earth that supports me, "the waters that encompass my dominions, and thyself to witness; that in the sincerity of my heart I seek to " know thy will: and I declare to thee this day, that I ' shall acknowledge, as the depositaries of the oracles, the ministers of either religion whom thou shalt cause " to arrive the first in our harbours. The winds and the " waves are the ministers of thy power: let them be the "signals of thy will. If, with these honest intentions, " I embrace an error, my conscience will be at ease; and the blame will lie upon thee." THE assembly broke up, determined to wait the orders of heaven, and to follow the first missionaries that should * arrive at Celebes. The apostles of the coran were the most active, and the sovereign and his people were circum-seised,
B 0 0 K cifcd; and the other parts of the inland soon followed their example. THIs UnlUcky circumstance did riot hinder the Port. guess from gaining a footing at Celebes. They kept their ground there, even after they were driven ont of the Men. Iuccas. The motive of their flay, and the arrival of the English at this place was hectic they could deadly pro; cure spices which the natives of the country found mean, to get, notwithstanding the precautions that were taken to keep them at a distance from-the places where they grew. Ths Ditch, who by this competition, were prevented from monopolizing the articles of cloves and nttmlleg, attempted in 1660 to put a flop to this trardd which they called contraband. To favour this design, they had re: cosirfe to means repugnant to all morality, but which ali insatiable avarice had familiarized in Asia: By persevere. ing in there cruel maxims, they succeeded lt far as to drive out the Portuguese, keep off the English, and take possession of the harbour and fort of Macassar. From that titan they were absolute masters of the inland without having conquered it. The princes among whom it was divided, re-united in a kind of confederacy. They hold assemblies from time to time, on affairs that concern the ge neral interest. The result of their determinations be comes a law to each state. When any contest fifes, it is decided by the governor of the Dutch colony, who pre sides at this diet. He observes these different sovereigns with a watchful eye, and keeps them in perfect equality with each other to prevent any of them from aggramliz: ing himself to the prejudice of the company. They hard disarmed them all, under pretence of hindering them from injuring each other; but in reality with a view of de driving them of the power of breaking their chains. THE Chinese, who are the only foreigners permitted to come to Celebes, carry thither tobacco, gold wire,,cliina,
china, and inwrought silks. The Dutch sell opium, spit 0 K virtuous liquors, gum lac, fine and coarse linens. They have but little gold front thence, but great quantities of rice, wax, naves, and trepan, a species of mushroom, wheat tile roller and blacker it is, the more excellent it is elecemec The customs bring in 80,0o0 livres * to the company: but it receives a much larger profit from its trade, and the tenth part of the territory which it holds in full right of sovereignty. These advantages, however, taken all together, do not counterbalance the expences of the colony, which rise to 1 50o000 livres b more. It would Certainly be given up If It was not with good refit looked upon as the keys the spice finds, Tu. settlement et Borneo was formed with a less in Til puttli interesting view. It is one of the largest if not actually the 'muniA'tn large island hitherto known. The antient inhabitants with Bor. live ih the Inland parts. The Coasts are peopled with inhabitants from Macassar, with Javanese, Malayans, aid Arabs, who, to the vices that are natural to them have added a ferocity hardly to be met with elsewhere. The most use fil pro'lllcion of this large country is cafiphire which is a volatile, subtile oil, or resinous substance. The tree from which it is drawn, grows in several of the Asiatic islands, and it has lately been discovered that this singular substance may be obtained in a greater or less quantity from all the trees that are of the laurel tribe. To procure this conspire, the tree is cut into small pieces, like matches, whchl are pit into a vessel shaped like a bladder: they are boiled in water, and the cam hire forms a glutinous mass at tie top. The Dutch are the only people in Europe who possess the secret of refining it in the gross. THe hampshire from Borneo is unquestionably the best of any. Its superior excellence is so well known, that,3,5001. b About 6,(6t1. VOL. I. M the
B 0 0 K the Japanese give five or fix quintals of their own for ones pound of that from Borneo; and the Chinese who look upon it as the best medicine in the world, give us no less that eight hundred livres a a pound for it. The Pa guns in all the eastern countries use common hampshire in their fire-works, and the Mahometan put it into the mouth of the dead at the time of burial. ABOUT the year 1526 the Portuguese attempted to set the at Borneo. Too weak to make their arms repeated, they tried to gain the good-will of one of the sovereigns of the country by offering him some pieces of tapestry. This weak prince took the figures wrought in it' for in chanted men, who would strangle him in the night-time, if he suffered them to come near his person. The explanations they gave to remove his apprehensions had no es sec; he obstinately refused to let the present be brought into his palace, and prohibited the donor from entering his capital.,HowzvER these voyagers afterwards gained admission; but it proved their misfortune, for they were all massacred. A savory which the English .established some years after shared the same fate. The Dutch, who had met with no better treatment, appeared again, in the year 1748, with a squadron, which, though very weak, so far imposed upon the prince, who has the pepper entirely his hands, that he determined to grant them the privilege of trading for it exclusively: with this single reserve, that he should be allowed to deliver five hundred thousand pounds of this article to the Chinese, who had always frequented his ports. Since this treaty, the company lends rice, opium, salt, and coarse linens to Bendermaflen, from whence they bring some diamonds, and about fix hundred thou sand weight of pepper at one and thirty livres b a hundred weight. The profits arising from the goods they export are farce sufficient to answer the expences of the colony,,35i
though they amount to no more than 3z,0oo livres. B 0 0 K Sumatra proves of greater advantage to them. r THOUGH this island, before the arrival of the Euro Settlements,oftheDutclh means in the Indies, was divided into several kingdoms, a Sumatra. Achenn was the centre of all trade. Its harbour was frequented by all the Asiatic states, and afterwards by the Portuguese and other nations, who railed themselves upon their ruins. Here all the productions of the east were bartered for gold, pepper, and other articles of merchandise with which this more opulent than healthy climate abounded. The disturbances which threw this famous emporium into confusion, put a flop to all industry, and drove the foreign merchants away. WHEN this declension happened, the Dutch formed the project of making settlements in other parts of the island, which enjoyed more tranquillity. Those that were al lowed to fix in the empire of Indrapore are much reduced, since the English established themselves on the same coast. The factory of lamb is of fill less life, as the neighbouring kings have stript the prince of this istria of his possessions The company makes itself amends for these misfortunes at Caliban, where, for sixty thousand livres b, it maintains a fort, a garrison of eighty men, and two or three sloops, which keep cruising continually. It pur chafes annually two million weight of pepper, at one and twenty livres a hundred, and a million and an half of cabin at fifty-seven livres ten fols d a hundred. This, though it seems to be a moderate price, is of advantage to the king, who buys it from his fubjefs at a still lower rate. Though he takes some part of the provision and cloathing for his states from the merchants at Batavia, they are obliged to fettle accounts with him in piastres. The treasures he has amassed of the silver, and of the gold found in his rivers, are known to be immense. A tingle European vessel might take possession of all these riches;,1,400o . b ,6251. e l8s. 4d. 8 z il. ics. 3d.,M and,
B O O K and, with some troops for landing, maintain a postal which would be won without difficulty. It seems very ex-extraordinary, that avarice Should never have prompted any adventurer to undertake so lucrative and easy an enter prise. CIVILIZED nations, who, to make themselves mailers of the universe, have trampled upon all the rights, and stifled all the dictates of nature, will hardly shrink at one additional aa injustice or cruelty. There is not a nation in Europe which does not think it has a just right to seize the treasures of the east Setting aside religion, which it is no longer fashionable to plead, since its very ministers have brought it into disrepute, by their unbounded avarice and ambition, how many pretences are still remaining to justify the rage of invasion? They who live under a monarch yare desirous of extending the glory and empire of their master beyond the seas. These happy people are ready to venture their lives in the extreme parts of the globe, to increase the number of fortunate subjects, who live under the laws of the best of princes. A free nation, which is its own mater, Is born to command the ocean; it cannot secure the dominion of the sea, without seizing upon the land, which belongs to the first possessor; that is, to him who is able to drive out the ancient inhabitants: they are to be enslaved by force or fraud, and exterminated in order to get their possessions. Moreover, the interests of com mere, the national debt, and the majesty of the people, require it. Republicans, who have happily shaken off the yoke of foreign tyranny, must impose it on others in their turn. If they have broken their chains, it is to forge new ones. They hate monarchy, but they are in want of slaves. They have no land of their own: why Should they not seize upon those of others ? triste TnE trade of the Dutch at Siam was at first very con Dutch at miserable. A tyrannic prince, who oppressed this unhappy country, having, about the year 1660, shewn a waters
of refer to the company, it punished him by abandoning B 0 0 K the factories it had established in his dominions, as if it would have been a favour to have continued them. These republicans, who affected an air of grandeur, chore at that time to have their presence looked upon as a favour, a security, and an honour: and they inculcated this fin gular prejudice with so much success, that in order to en gage them to return, a pompous embassy was sent, asking pardon for what had pail, and giving the strongest assurances of a different conduct for the future. THERE was a time, however, when this deference was to cease, and it was hastened by the naval enterprizes of other powers. The affairs of the company at Siam have always been in a declining hate. Having no fort, it has never been in a condition to maintain the exclusive privilege it had obtained. The king, notwithstanding the presents he requires, fells merchandise to traders of all nations, and takes goods from them on advantageous terms: with this difference only, that they are obliged to flop at the mouth of the Mean, whereas the Dutch go up the river as far as the capital of the empire, where their agent constantly resides. Their affairs derive no great activity from this privilege. They send only one vessel laden with Javanese horses, sugar, spices and linens, and receive in return cabin, at 70 livres a a hundred weight; gum lac, at 5zb, some elephants teeth, at five livres fix sols a pound; and a little gold, at 175 livres to fols d a mark. One may venture to assert, that their connexions here are kept up purely on account of the fappan wood, which is necessary for the flowing of their ships; and for which they give no less than five livres e a hundredweight. Were it not for this want, they would long ago have given up a trade where the expence exceeds the profits; 31. 1. 3d. b 21. 5'. 61. ' 45. 7d. 4 wil 13. id.! * 4s. 4d,-,M 3 because
B 00 OK because the king, who is the only merchant in his domi-onions, sets a very low price upon the commodities that are imported. A more interesting object turned the am bilious views of the Dutch towards Malacca. Situation cos THESE republicans, who knew the importance of this the Dutch at.M.ci. place, used their utmost efforts to make themselves master's it. Having miscarried in two attempts, they had re. course at last, if we may believe a satirical writer, to an expedient, which a virtuous people will never employ; but which frequently answers the purpose of a degenerate nation. They endeavoured to bribe the Portuguese go vernon, whom they knew to be covetous. The bargain was struck, and he introduced the enemy into the city in 1541. The besiegers hastened to his house and massacred him to save the payment of the 500,0oo livres a they had promised him. But truth obliges us to declare, for the honour of the Portuguese, that they did not surrender till after a most obstinate defence. The commander of the victorious party asked the commander of the other, in a boasting fain, which is not natural to his nation, when he would return ? Ji7cn yscr crimes are greater than ours, replied the Portuguese gravely the conquerors found a fort, which, like all the works of the Portuguese, was built with a degree of strength, which has never since been imitated by any nation. They found the climate very healthy, though hot and moist: but the trade there was entirely decayed; the continual exactions having deterred all nations from resorting thither. It has not been revived by the company, either on account of some insuperable difficulties, or the want of moderation, or the fear of injuring Batavia. The business is confined at present to the sale of a small quantity of opium, and a few blue linens, and to the purchase of elephants teeth, can, which costs 70 livres a hundred weight, and a,--,S;!. 5 31. 5s. 3d.,small
small quantity of gold, at 1So livres a a mark, Their B 0 O K affairs would be carried on with more spirit and to a greater amount, if the princes adhered more faithfully to the exclusive treaty subsisting between them. Unfortunately for their interests, they have formed connexions with the English, who furnish them with the commodities they want at a cheaper rate, and give a greater price for their merchandise. Their farms and customs make them some little amends, bringing in zoo,oon livres b a year. These revenues, however, and the advantages of com mere taken together, are not sufficient to maintain the garrison and people employed; which coifs the company 40,000 livres c. THIS might for a long time appear to be a small fa orifice. Before the Europeans doubled the Cape of Good Hope, the Moors, who were the only maritime people in India, failed from Surat and Bengal to Malacca, where they found ships from the Molucca Islands, Japan, and China. When the Portuguese became masters of this place, they went themselves to Bantam for pepper, and to Ternate for spices. To make their return the shorter, they attempted a passage by the Sunda islands, and succeeded The Dutch who had got possession of Malacca and Batavia were mailers of the two only straits that were then known. They cruised there in times of star, and intercepted the enemy's vessels. This situation has ceased to be respectable, since the strait of Bali was discovered by the French at the end of the war in 1744, and that of Lomboc, by the English, in the las war. Batavia will always continue to be the staple of an im mense trade; but Malacca holes the only advantage that gave it any importance. THOUGH the company did not foresee this event, yet Settlements th, Pat-h at the same time that they were enlarging and strengthens at Ceylon. ing their power in the eastern parts of Fit, they formed '71. 17. 6d. b , o ' ,75:L.,M i. tie
BO 00 K the project of securing to themselves that part of Indians where the Portuguese continued to counteract their operations, and of taking from them the island of Ceylon. It is observable that this nation, so distinguished for the justness of its commercial views, endeavoured to get those productions into its hands, which were either absolutely necessary or nearly so, before it turned its attention to articles of luxury. It owes its grandeur in Asia to the spice trade, and in Europe to the herring fishery. The Moluccas supply it with nutmegs and cloves; and Ceylon furnishes it with cinnamon. SPILBERG, the first of their admirals who had the courage to display his colours on the coast of this delicious island, found the Portuguese employed in subverting the government and the religion of the country: in het. ting the sovereigns, among whom it was divided, to de stroy each other; and in railing themselves upon the ruins of the fates that were thus successively demolished. He offered the court of Candy the assistance of his country, which was joyfully accepted. cu may azure your m alters, faid,the monarch, that if they will build a frt, myself, my wis, and children will be foreman in blh i-ginig you the ne clary materials. THE people. of Ceylon looked upon the Dutch in no other light than as the enemies of their oppressors, and joined them. By their united forces, the Portuguese were, in the year 1658, entirely dispossessed, after a long, bloody, and obstinate war. All their settlements sell into the hands of the company, who still keep possession of them, except. ing a small district on the eastern coast, without any port, from whence the sovereign of the country had his salt; 'these settlements formed a regular string, extending from two to twelve leagues into the inland parts of the island. THE fort of Jaffranapatan, as well as those ereAed on the sands of Manor and Valentine, were destined to prevent all correspondence with the inhabitants of the,neighbour,
neighbouring continent. At Negombo, defined to com B O O 1 pretend the district in which the best cinnamon is pro duce, there is an harbour large enough to admit sloops: but'it is not frequented on account of a navigable river that leads from it to Columba. This place, which the Portuguese had fortified with the greatest care, as the centre of opulence, is become the principal station in the colony. . It is not improbable, that, independent of the sums that had been expended upon it, the badness of its road might have determined the Dutch to fix the strength of their government at the promontory of Gallo, where there is an harbour; which, though the entrance is in deed difficult, and the bason very confined, has every other advantage that can be wished. It is here that the company take in their cargoes for Europe. Mater is the magazine for coffee and pepper, the culture of which has been introduced by the company. It has no other fortification than a redoubt built upon a river that is only navigable for boats. Trinquimale is the finest and best harbour in the Indies. It is composed of several bays, where the most numerous fleets may anchor in security. No trade is carried on there. The country furnishes no one article of merchandise; and even provisions are very scarce : in short, it is protected by its barrenness. Other settlements of inferior note that are scattered upon the coast, serve to make the communication easy, and to keep off strangers. By these wise precautions, the company have appro printed all the productions of the island. The several ar titles which constitute so many branches of trade are; I. Amethysts, sapphires, topazes, and rubies, which are very small, and very indifferent. The Moors, who come from the coast of Coromandel, buy them, paying a moderate tax; and, when they are cut, sell them at a low price in the different countries of Indiamen. I'sPPPE
B O 0 K 2. PEPPER, which the company buy for eight fols a,X pound; coffee, for which theyonly pay four; and car-damon, which has no fixed price. The natives of the country are so indolent, that these productions, which are all of an inferior quality, will never turn to any great advantages. A HUNDRED bales of handkerchiefs, pages and ginghams, of a fine red colour, which are fabricated by the Malabars at Jafranapatan, where they have long been fettled. 4. A SMALL quantity of ivory, and about fifty elephants-which are carried to the coast of Coromandel. Thus this gentle and peaceful animal, which is too useful to mankind, to be suffered to remain upon an island, is transported to the continent, to aggravate and bear a part in the dangers and horrors of war. 5. ARECA, which the company buys at the rate often livres a the ammonia, and fells upon the spot at the rate of thirty-fix or forty livres b to the merchants of Bengal, Coromandel, and the Maldives; who give in return rice, coarse linens, and cowries. The areca, which grows upon a species of the palm-tree, is a fruit not uncommon in croft parts of Asia, and is in great plenty at Ceylon. It is oval, and would not be much unlike the date, fits extremities were less pointed. The bark is thick, smooth, and membranaceous, and covers a kernel of a whitish cast, shaped like a pear, and of the bigness of a nutmeg. When eaten by itself, as it sometimes is by the Indians, it impoverishes the blood, and causes the jaundice. It is not attended with these inconveniencies when mixed with betel the betel is a creeping and climbing plant like the ivy, out does no injur) to the agouti, which it embraces as its support, and is remarkably fond of. It is cultivated in .c famrn manner as the vine. Its leaves a good deal re,* Ss. 9d. b A"I3o zl. rj. m,fenmbic
females thereof the citron, though they are longer and B 0 0 K narrower at the extremity. The betel grows in all parts a of India, but flourishes best in moist places. AT all times of the day, and even in the night, the Indians chew the leaves of the betel, the bitterness of which is corrected by the areca that is wrapped up in them. There is constantly mixed with it the chunam, a kind of burnt lime made of shells. The rich frequently add perfumes, either to gratify their variety or their fen quality. IT would be thought a breach of politeness among the Indians to take leave for any long time, without pre setting each other with a purse of betel. It is a pledge cf friendship that relieves the pain of absence. No one dares to speak to a superior unless his mouth is perfumed with betel; it would even be rude to neglect this precaution with an equal. The women of gallantry are the most lavish in the use of betel, as being a powerful incentive to love. Betel is taken after meals; betel is chewed during a visit; betel is offered when you meet, and when you separate in short, nothing is to be done without betel. If it is prejudicial to the teeth, it assists and strengthens the romance. At least, it is a general fashion that prevails throughout the Indies. 6. THE pearl fishery, which is one of the sources of the revenue of Ceylon. It is no improbable conjecture, that this island, which is only fifteen leagues from the continent, was, in some distant period or other separated from it by rome great convulsion of nature. The that of sea which at present divides it from the land, is so full of shallows, that no Ships can fail upon it; and there are only a few places where finally boats may pass in four or five feet water. The Dutch, who assume the sovereignty here, have always two armed sloops to enforce the pay ment of the taxes they have imposed. In this strait the pearl fishery is carried on, which was formerly of so muche importance ;
o oL K importance; but this source of wealth has been so much,, exhausted, that it is but rarely resorted to. The bank indeed, is visited every year, to see how it is replenished with oysters;. but, in general, it is five or fix years before a sufficient quantity is to be found. The fishery is then farmed out; and, every thing computed, it may produce to the revenues of the company zoo,ooo livres. Upon the same coasts is found a shellfish called xanxus, of which the Indians at Bengal make bracelets. The fishery is free, but the trade is exclusive. AFTER all, the great object of the company is cinna mon. The root of the tree that produces it is large, and divides it into several branches covered with a bark, which on the outer side is of a greyish brown, and on the inner of a reddish cast. The wood of this root is hard, white, and has nofmell. The body of the tree, which grows to the height of eight or ten toises, is covered as well as its numerous branches, with a bark which at first is green, and afterwards red. The leaf, if it were not longer and narrower, would not be much unlike that of the laurel When first unfolded it is of a flame colour: but as. ter it has been for some time exposed to the air and grows dry, it changes to a deep green on the upper surface, and to a lighter on the lower. The flowers are small and white, and grow in large bunches at the extremity of the branches; they have an agreeable smell, something like that of the lily of the valley. The fruit is shaped like an acorn, but is not so large. It is commonly ripe in September. When boiled in water it yields an oil which swims at top, and takes fire. If left to cool, it hardens into a white substance, of which candles are made, which have an agreeable smell, and are reserved for the use ol the king of Ceylon. No part of the tree that produces the cinnamon is valuable except the under bark. The best season for raising and separating it from the outer,S,75cl.,bark,
bark, which is grey and rugged, is the spring, when the B 0 0 K sap flows in the greatest abundance. It is cut into thin I slices and exposed to the fun; and curls up in drying. THE old trees produce only a coarse kind of cinnamon, which is only in perfection when the trees are not older than three or four years. When the trunk has been strip pet of its bark it receives no further nourishment, but the root is still alive and continues to throw out fresh shoots. Besides this, the fruit of the cinnamon-tree con pains a feed from which it is railed. THERE are some of the company's territories where this tree does not grow. It is only to be found in those of Negombo, Columba, or the promontory of Gallo. The prince's forests supply the deficiency which sometimes prevails in the magazines. The mountains in habited by the Bedas abound with the tree: but neither the Europeans nor the Cinglaffes are denied access to them, and there is no way of sharing the riches of the Bedas but by declaring war against them. As the Cinglaffes, as well as the Indians upon the con tient, are divided into cares which never make any al lances with one another, each constantly adhering to the same profession; the art of barking the cinnamon-trees is a distinct occupation, and the meanest of all others, and is confined to the cast of the Coolness. Every other islander would look upon it as a disgrace to be employed in this trade. THE cinnamon is not reckoned excellent unless it is fine, smooth, brittle, thin, of a yellow colour inclining to red, fragrant, aromatic, and of a poignant, yet agreeable taste. The connoisseurs give the preference to that, the pieces of which are long but sender. It adds to the deli caries of the table, and is of sovereign use in medicine. THE Dutch purchase the greater part of their cinnamon of the Indians who are subjeCt to them. They have en gaged to take a limited quantity of the king of Candy, at,an
B 0 0 K an advanced price. Setting one against the other, it doe, not cost them twelve fols a pound. It would not be impossible for the ships that frequent the ports of Ceylon, to procure the tree that produces the cinnamon; but it has degenerated at Malabar, Batavia, the isle of France, and in all parts where it has been transplanted. FORMERLY the company thought it necessary to main. tain four thousand black or white soldiers, to secure the advantages they derived from Ceylon. The number is now reduced to fifteen or sixteen hundred. Their annu31 expences, nevertheless, amount to z,zoo,ooo livres; and their revenues, and small branches of commerce, pro. duce no more than z,ooo,ooo of livres b. This deficiency is supplied out of the profits arising from cinnamon. They are likewise obliged to provide for the expence attending the wars they are from time to time engaged in with the king of Candy, who is at present the fol sovereign of the island. THE Dutch freely own that there ruptures are fatal to them. As soon as they break out, moth of the people who inhabit the coasts retire into the inland parts of the country. Notwithstanding the despotism that awaits them, they look upon the yoke of the Europeans as an evil still more insupportable. The Coolness are so far from always waiting for the commencement of hostilities as a signal for their removal, that they sometimes resolve to take this desperate step as soon as they perceive the least misunderstanding between the king and the Dutch. On these occasions, betides the loss of a harvest, a long train of expence and fatigue follows, to enable them to penetrate, sword in hand, into a country, encompassed on all sides by rivers, woods, hollow vales, and mountains. THESE important considerations had determined the company to engage the good will of the prince of Candy, by shewing him all imaginable civilities. Every year they,' 96,zj-. b S7,5zc!.,sent
sent an ambassador laden with rich presents. They offered B O O IC their ships to convey his priests to Siam, to be intruded in the religion of that country, which is the same with his vwn. Notwithstanding they had taken the forts and the lands which were occupied by the Portuguese, they con tented themselves with receiving from this prince the ap pulsation of guardians of his coasts. They also made him several other concessions. THESE singular instances of management, have not, however, been always sufficient to maintain good har mony, which has several times been interrupted. The war which ended on the Sith of February, 1766, had been the longest and the most alive of any that had been occasioned by distrust, and an opposition of interests. As the company prescribed terms to a monarch who was driven from his capital, and obliged to wander in the woods, they made a very advantageous treaty. Their sovereignty was acknowledged over all the countries they were in possession of before the troubles broke out; and that part of the coasts which remained in the occupation of the natives was ceded to them. They are to be allowed to gather cinnamon in all the plains, and the court is to sell them the best fort that is produced in the mountain vous parts a* the rate of forty-one livres five fols a for eighteen pounds. Their commissaries are authorised to extend their trade to all parts where they think it can be carried on with advantage. The government engages to have no connexion with any other foreign power: and ever to deliver up any Europeans who may happen to stray into the island. In return for so many concessions the king is to receive annually the value of the produce of the ceded coasts; and from thence his sub jets are to be furnished gratis with salt sufficient for their consumption. It should seem that the company may de rive great advantages from so favourable a situation.,·i. cs. id.,T!:E
B O O K THE property ds the lands in Ceylon belongs more of,. L right to the sovereign than in any other part of India.,This pernicious system has, in that island bin attended with fatal consequences inseparable from it. The people are in a state of total inactivity. They live in huts, have no furniture, and subsist upon fruits; and those who are most at their ease, have no other covering than a piece of coarse linen wrapped about their waist. It were to be willed that the Dutch would do one thing, which all the nations who have established colonies in Asia, are to blame never to have attempted, and that is, to distribute the lands among the families and make them their own pro. party. They would forget, and perhaps hate their former sovereign: they would attach themselves to a government that consulted their happiness; they would become in. delirious, and occasion a greater consumption. Under such circumstances the iSland of Ceylon would enjoy'that opulence which was designed it by nature: it would be secure from revolutions, and be enabled to support the settlements of Malabar and Coromandel, which it is bound to protea. True o The Portuguese, in the time of their prosperity, had the Dutch formed some tolerable settlements on the coast of Core on the civil of Cromn~--andes. That at Negapatan was taken from them by,the Dutch in 1658. It gradually increased to ten or twelve villages, which were all inhabited by weavers. In ceo, it was thought proper to build a fort to secure their tranquillity and in 1742 the tower Was surrounded by walls. This is the centre of trade, where all the investments of white, blue, painted, printed, fine and coarse lichens are made by the company for the consumption in Europe or India. Whether at Bimilipatnam, Delicate, Sadrafpatan; or at its factories on the fishing coast. Their investments, which commonly amount to four or five thousand bales are carried to Negapatan, by two sloops stationed in these seas for that purpose.,Tit
TuI Dutch sell, on the coast of Coromandel, iron, lead, B 0 0 K copper, call, tutelage, pepper, and spices. These united . . articles produce a million of livres 1 to which we may add eighty thousand b arising from the customs. The expences of their several establishments amount to eight hundred thousand livres, c and we may venture to assert without the fear of being accused of exAggeration, that the freight of the (hips swallow up the ref of the profits. The net produce therefore of the Coromandel trade to the company, is the profit arising from the linens they report. Their trade on the Malabar cost is fill le; ad v:ltageolls to them. It commenced pretty nearly at the f!tln period, and was established at the expence of the Llile nation. IT appears to be no difficult task to guess at the motives Trade of that led to this new enterprise. After the Portuguese had the Dc het lost Ceylon, they sold the wild cinnamon of Malabar in of Mlal.bLr. Europe at almost the same price at which they had always sold the right fort. Though this rival flip could not con tinge long, it gave uneasiness to the Dutch, who, in 1662, ordered Mangoes, their general, to attack Cochin. THE place was no sooner inverted, than intelligence wa received of a peace being concluded between Holland and Portugal. This news was kept secret. The operations were carried on with vigour; and the besieged, harassed by continual assaults, surrendered on the eighth day. The next day a frigate arrived from Goa with the articles of peace. The conquerors gave themselves no further trou able to justify their treachery, than by saying, that those v.ho complained in so haughty a stile, had observed the same contra at Brazil a few years before. AFTER this conquest, the Dutch thought themselves firmly established at Malabar. Cochin seemed to be ne cesare to protect Cananor, Cranganor, and-bouillon, of,·43,7501. 3,5Cs . 35,cool. Vo i. which
B O 0 K which they had just before made themselves masters, ands. the factory of l'orcat, which they had formed the plan of,at that tine, and have since itiually ctlabliledl. 'Til event has not answered their expectation. The company have not succeeded in their hopes of excluding other European nation from this coals. 'hey procure no king of imllcrhildil there, hut what they are furnished wilt from their ether Settlements; and being rivalled in their til de they are obliged to give a higher price here, than ill the markets where they enjoy an exclusive privilege. THEIR articles of tale consist of a finally quantity of alum, benzoin, hampshire, tutelage, sugar, iron, tali, lead, copper, and quicksilver. The vcefl'l that carrie, thai llcrider cargo returns to Batavia laden with care, nr cocoa-tree bark, for the life of the port. By these artic, the company gain, at most 36o,3oo livres a, which, wilt zo10,CO b arising from the cilltoms, make the fins oi 480,000 livres c. In times of profound peace the iailn. penance of there settlements costs 464,oco livres d1, so that 16,coo e only, remain to defray the expenses of llhir fltippirig, for which that umn is certainly not sufficient. Ir is true the company gets tI:vl millions weight of pep. per at Malabar, which is carried in sloops to Ceylon, where it is put aboard the nips fitted out for Eulol)e, It is likewise true, that, by virtue of there capitulations, they pay only 192 f livres the candid, which weighs fiat hundred pounds, for which other companies give 240 , and private merchants 2SS8 h; but whatever adv:iit.ie may be made of this article, it is reduced to nlotllii by the bloody wars that are occasioned by it, THESE observations had doubtless fc.ctiel the notice of Colonels. the director-general of Batavia, si hen Iii ventured to affirm that the settlement at Malabar vwhic lie had long superintended, was one of the most import t ,7 o l . ' ,L -I. d 2.,roI. :. 'S1, . 8. o li. l;s i l. Tant
fIttlnimec!lts belonging to he conmpanll ." I m so B 0 0 K,far from eic;l, 1 y uiir Ipiliinl. I.fid general T l MoT'Il, that I c uld w t111 lthc I;? had Isvalilvedl it up about a Cenlltulry ao." BE til, :,s it i:Iv, tie Ptutch, in the elicit of their Ti[ ,iD, h,Iicliicn~ll' filcrcli, f-nund the w lt of a lire There their vessels ,s ,i ',i, night put ill to get refitilmellts, either ill going tl; or t t,., rcltrnll;; Isroi m lydia. T '1I he) writ e ui;dctcrmiried ill thir clioicrr, wvheli \;in-Richecli il surgeons, in 16;o, pI'ipTfcd the C ipc ,I' (Good hope, li h this Purttigiiefr had im privily idcpil'ii|. '.hlii:. jiirii i ls man, dtiirit: a flay of line ixceks, ji .i ,',m; imi'.l lII:t ;1 C'loly llt;l he pilniccdI tis adilvntagc on lia;b liuilhirln cxlrllnily ois Atlrhi, whitri Illiglht selve c ; a i lalpc her the ( lnIlierce if F'. u11trc 1ndl Asia The care ol Smiling this fcllicin]e t wv.as coniimmit- ted to him; i al lis il callers vC wre crncrlctcil tllpon .l gioodl plan. lie t.iliicd it io be stipulated that decry man who crhof o to i:: 1 crc h l liquid ihavc sixty acres of land al lottery Him. Liril, rattle alhd utensils were to.be pro idled for tilofc wvhl,) 'anted thcil. Yolitng woenc talecn sion ;lInis-h"uifes vw.rc giVcll them as cm111laniolls to fulton, and to ll:lre their iati;ics. All tI'ofc, who after lthilce ears found the climate, did not agree with them, hal liberty to return to Europe, alit to (dispose of their ptl'fiiIns in villa manner they pIlc;litl. Slaving fettled there' arralngemetntis lr set fail. Tin large trit 't of poultry which it was proposes to cultivate, was inhabited by tiles Il.tcltotsa who, according to a French traveller, are divided ;ito l 'vc: ;;l Ilani;, cas! ofi hic terms all ind, tldelr't illic. 'heir habitation arc huts covered nx with fIinl ;, vwich c:inn;n t be entered with out creeping upon their ml: 'nil knees, a id are disposed in a circle. Three hilt; :re I1 rely of any other use than to hold afewprovifinoii and lhofliold furnliurc. 'I'kel hottentots never enter thin but in til rainy fcafln. They arc always found lying at their doors; and if they interrupt their rc-,N 2 pose
B O O K prose it is to silke a strong herb which serves them inltied,ot tobacco. Tr, management of cattle is the sole employment of thee savages. As there is hut one herd in each town htich is common to all the inhabitants, each of them i, appointed to guard it in his turn. This post requires cor.:t;lat vigilance, the country being full of wild brat, hill are ore voracious at this extremity of Africa tlhal ass shore calc. The Shepherd sends out scouts every day. If a leopold or tyger is seen in the neighbourhood, the 'hlli'lc town. takes uil) arms, and ltici to til etltmy, wilt seldom escapes from 1;) many pilf;iisd arrows, and niarl, stakes hardened in the fire. As the hottentots neither have, nor appear to hale riches ; and their oxen and Ilihep, which is all the propicrt they have, are in common; it is natural to imagine that there is little occasion for disputes among them. They are accordingly united to each other by the clofcl; ties of friendship: nor do tl;'y ever engage ins any war, even with their neighbours; iC:tin:g afdce the quarrels be. tien the shepherds on account of cattle that may have strayed, or been carried off.,IT has often been rc;iiarked, that public customs gave rise to the first colonies. ital ka of dlilt'inaion were adopted to make men unite and recognize one another. A broken nose, a flat head. bored cars, paintings, burnings, hcal- dresses, are the .laratcritics cf the savage world. /s no plan of me city or education Prevails among their, it follow,, or course, that universal customs mnllt wit' them supply the place of policy and government. These rude men, the children of nature, depend entirely on th:c temper of the climate: a::d hL.::ce the Hottentots ha 1v the manners of herdfinr:;.,\'HEN the Dutch ar-iv-d there, they were, like all the people who lead a paiiural life, full of benevolence; aid partook in fume d-grea of the Co;'c':incfs and stupidity,oi
of the animals they kept. 'They had infiititcd an order, BH 0 K will which they honoured th-lee alio hath subdued any of tbc monster that w\-re dtclrufltive to their sheep-folds: atd they r everCd til memory of the heroes who had dlmie service to mankind. The .ipo;hcoi, of Hercules had tile fi.ln o;-iin. RIEsECK, i;i c:miferlmity to the notions unhappily pre wailing among the Europeans began to take position of the most commodious; part of the territory; and hi afterwards deigned to fix hi:ifeif there. 'This behaviour displeased the natives. (On what pretence, said their envoy to thetc Strangers, l.rive'eyge jz'n otr lands? 1T)y dl your ri/ioy' then to ,/frd your cattle ? How wouldst behave if yeu jaws, domi own f/J.! i, ./, invaded in this manner? 31t, fort-iv )oiithiUitS will.' s ói'rttr v.' than is rcdrtt: the Hottentots to faveJy. 'llic''c rieotlolliialae e were followed by some ii:)tilitics, v which brought the founder of the colony hack to those p!rincpic fe t of;ufiic end hulin:i sty. that w-cle agreeable to his natural clhraliter. eIc purchased the country hie ii antcd to occupy for the sinn of g0,000 livres * which was paid in nicrchladi i:c. All parties were reckon cited, and irulo that tile to this, there las been no fur ther didtl iazacce. IT has been proved that the company have expended 46,ooo,ooo of livres i, in raising the colony to its precinct ltatc. A few particulars will enable us to judge how so collidcrablc a fl::n ha been employed. Ir is comnllmtcd that there arc at the Cape of Good I1lot; about twelve tlhc Iilti!d Europeans, Dutch, Germans. and French Refugees. Some part of these numbers reside in the capital, and two considerable towns: the rclt ate disperse'! along the coast which extends fifty league into the country. 'The soil of the Hottentots being f;idy, and only good by iitelrvls.<; the hufialtndmlen chuse to con - file tlieIillves to those places iiheie they meet with watcl-,3937 . 1lo, b 2,Clt,50 1.,N 3 woo
B 0 IK wood and fertile land; three advantages seldom found t.-/-~ together the company formerly procured slaves from Mead:. gaspar, who alleviated the burthen of the white people. Since the French appeared as rivals, this commnillic:nian Isis. bc'-' discontinued. T he present planters consist ol a fcv slays, who are unaccustomed to the cl;inatc, and :-c f.:larce fer the work that is required of tilcm.,IF It \'.re prrcicicbl'c to make the Hottentots nfr. v, ,yc.it .dvt;i;ia. s inl;,,t accrue, 1lhich cannot he lioplr ir loom tlrh itr lpli'cit ch.,ra.'ter. All that hel yet been dC-c, heh. bccil to prevail with the .rcorrfl of them to c-^.:;c i i their service for one, two, or three yc:ir'. Ths a.r cte a docile terrier, aid tcr!iloiz tlih work tli.it ;. c'rr.-:. front them; but. i.t the cxpr.itio of tier-:rc:!ei::, lheyr take the ciltle tilt ;aie allowed thin for v-' c , rejoin their clan, and i.-'ei mal.r their appe:lnn:' ,iv.4iil hill they have oxen nr fic:p to bitter for knivie, tobacco, and brandy. They fiend ain iniyprerihibe liar ii the independent and inflict lis they lead in their L.:: .ts. Nothiiiie can *n tim htii:n this attacrhniie. u:.e ot their children was t.iken frein the cradle, and ie l:i.c:ti(l in incur n-.nniers and r lc-l;i,,i; he mile a progirf; ar,:I-crahlc to talc pa,;cs tint were l, 'i., , -d sion hi edicla. ion ; lhc ami sent tondia, and uiifctll. c:r;-l',;d in trade. liapi:clhi^g, by ::ccdcnt, t,, revisit his rctictry, he y.cnt ;', fe. hi rc';i(c;i s in their hilt. I-ic was truck with the fijnllipic this appeared tlhre; he cloati;cd lIsl'iflf with a Ihrc--ft.il, anti went to the fort to carry back his Euro pe !! habiliments. I ram came, fid he to the governor, ;r : .;xx:: si r crier the mode of lise )yit have ttec/,Lt m!:i ti .:"-:.' . 1 am ref:!v,'d tI fallow, till teeth, tLce macer; ,sci ,medial. f my acefla'sa. -/; a'-tl'e f cnj' n'r-7io;i:, I ;; .'.' kct time cellar cant fJt ;red r. : have gi en me: a.`// :/ r,? )CG' U':;7 permit mc to trie is ' i t. He did not v'lit,i'
for en answer, but ran away, and was never heard of B 0o K after. 'I'HOoU,;H the character of the Hottentots is not fu-ih as the Dutch could with, the company derive solid advantage simon this colnv,. Indeed, the tenth-part of the corn and wine, together with their customs and other duties, do not exceed 2.o,ooo livres'. They gain no more than tirrv thousand b by their thick clothes common thread and cotton pieces, hardware, corn,, and other inconsiderable article, which they vend at tllii place. ',FYn receive a Still finally profit from sixty levies of red wine, and eighty or ninety of 'white, which they carry to Europe cvcry year. Thelecqll- weighs about twelve hundred po lrd.;. 'I here ane only two places in the neigh boauihood of Constantia that produce this wine. The sitC;!lly might have it cntirlyc genuine, and at a very low I.ltc. Ilalpily the govcrnio:' finds it hi: interest to allow the rlhivarors to mix it rih illic produce of the acdacclte vinc!srdis. ly this nmnalii ;cent-il;at remains of ths; crlrb:ltcted wine, tile chine excellent cape wine; is sold tu flirci,"l veil' els that h:lipr codicil at tie coasts at lour livicsc :I hoit!e. It i g;enciially preferable to that within is exti,:tel by t rally; 1i whig go i ng to bes expected .tierce it i. nlt voluntarily obliitlcd. As the cep'c:icc is u'clli;lty for the support of si !urge fctleilciit, I;c.a!k! v '', at lceat, all tille pIrofi*w ra ken together, its utility lilt roll upon foiui other foundations Ths' Ditch flip; t;::t fail to and from Iiidia find a fa' aftlumil at the cap :c; a delightful, serene, and tcinperrre slimy and learn eelry thing of impnrt.icc that happcr:n in hbtth thine Iptit of the gltoie. Sere the). take in bnttlc-, rn'e2 ' i, '. ;ire quanli;ic; of picks, ; l' vegetables for tlci,·ot '.: . lite e *f the colonies They mii!!:- [r. : *I d.t.i.aC.e; ifr(sil hence, if the Coi1.,· ^ t1. c 3s. id.,1'*::y·
B o K any, blinded by their avidity, were not perpetually s . checking the industry of the planter;. l icy oblige themt,to part with their provisions at so lo.v a price, that they have not, for a long time, been able to procure clothing, znd other absolute necessaries. TtIss tyrannical conduct might, perhaps, be borne with, if the viAims of it were authorised to sell tlihe superfluous produce to foreign navigators, whom the convenience of their situation, or other reasons, might invite into their parts. But a spirit of jealousy in trade, which is one of the gre.:tcf evils that can befal humanity, has dcprivi7; ther. ot this resource. The Dutch have long flattered thtenfl:':es, that by with-holding this conveniency from other trading nations, they should make them abandon ,india in dfiguf. Notai;ithRanding they have experienced the reserve cf this, their conduit is not altered; tliso'il it was easy to discern, that all the .wealth that sowed in'l the colony would, sooner o0 later, return to the company The governor only is authorised to supply the mol pres. sing necessities of thane who touch at the Cape. Theft wr.nng measures, have d'.ereedl'y been the source of ,toui.nd inconveniences. V;e must do justice to li. To'bac, who at prcfc:lt prcfi.lcs over this colony. This - err.us man, during the Inst war, ser an example ,of hb-n-v^lence and disinterestedness, which was not to bt found in any of his preteccl,-o: . As his understanding raised him above prcj'idicc, al.d that he had a fufilcitcn deg:ce of firmness to deviate ifr.:u the absurd orders ht received, he encou'ra'.td the nations who endeavoured to f::;-l.an one a nc.thcr to repair to tis colGnr.' for fifiil. re The price laws regt.ir.cd by so sift a flansreid, tit i.hile it wvs so mc:rtr.te as to il-vie purrtlalcr, i: was high enough to animate te sti.livntaort to indhlitry. . 'a this wil hate mat :org s, te plowing c y e cofiici- f. '. of ha:'ir.g made thee fc.rr:. of lis ft lIow-citiza;s, a d the g'c.y. * 'sis - :s i . " ' '.'" ' ::; . n,' o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
IF the company (hould adopt his plan, they will imitate B 0 0 K the spirit of their founders, who did nothing by chance, and, without waiting for the happy events we have been describing, fct themselves to find out a place, which they might make the center of their power. They had call their eyes upon Java as early as the year 1609. THE people of this sand, which is two hundred leagues D-5lnin:, in length and thirty or forty in breadth,' traced their '''t' origin fi-om China, though they retained nothing either of o. Jw. it. religion or its manners. A very superstitious species of mrihainrldainifin constituted the prevailing worintip. Some idolaters cere ili!l remaining in the interior past of the counties; and thtfce sre the only inhabitants of Java that were not arrived at the ia;a stage of dcprav%'v. This island, i which .,i foilmerlv utter the dominion of a single monarch, vias .t that time divided among several sovereigns, who wncrr perpetually at :, ar-'ithl each other. There eternal dif'lnifio.nis, while lely kept up a milit:;!y- ifirit among the people, made them n:gleag manners. Their enmity to strangers, and want of confidence in each other, inolll lead one to con!lcille, that this nation breathed no sentiment but hrtrcd. Mere men were t.'oe;ves to each other, and seemed to unite in society more for the fake of committing mutual injuries, than of receiving mutual assistances. A Javine:l' never accosted hi brother without having a poniard in his hard; ever wv tciful to prevent, or prepared to commit fsorne ait of vleoe.ce. The gra:.- die, had a great number of slaves, either bought, taken i; war, or detained for tdc;, whom they treated with the uttm.otl inhumanity. They cuiitvi.:cd the l. ends, and pcr- fried all kinds of hard .labour. Tie avanei'e clothed metre, finokcd opiurn, li;cd-with his concubines, I'll;It, or slept. These people pass lsfd a considerable f eia-r (ss iunrierftainding, but retained few traces of any i;to:'.i plr.- ciiipe. They had not so such the character of an unen.ilit- elicd, as of a degenerated nation: itn short, they were avant
B 0 0 K let of men, who, from a regular government had fallen,It.,into a kind of anarchy; and gave full scope to the inrpc. tuouc emotions which nature excites in these climates. TH I depraved ch.raflcr of the inhabitants did not alter the views of the company nith re!ipc't to Java. They might be counteracted by the English, who were then in possession of a part of the trade of this sand. But this obstacle was soon removed. The weakness f James the Fir:. and the correction of his cocl:nil, had f,; d;:lcl the fp:-ir; of there haughty Britons, that thro llufl;cd t!'cmec!rcs to he supplant t, without making tli'fc cf';I;it that night hive been c, ;,-ced from their h:-avcry. ''1 r lti-c of th e corner , dcl,-ived of thick support, tCele s:cc -d to frirlnil b lit rcril:rced time, address, and Ijuic, t., accomnj;'il tli-t fchlenre. i r v. ;- co' 0 t!'- prints.: ':;;tal in.\ im; cf the Particles t. p:c'-: ('.: itt, i,,'r' t;::' ' .and to engage or chain in a i'.-l:' <' r's .',,'C' fed their lhllr.rd t o Ca to 1,, tdic:.:; ', F:; hi e e i tic si the Colin 'f Liftbol, and i;:'iiatcd ii i;,t, ii; iCa-: a- nd . 'i ,;hCli 'les, But tht , vhiih -r ;: i i" If a ' - ?.-j,.'t, n,1-1fpoilcl by tht ccn'.uiecrei!., h'" : dmi':ed tl : - 'i i j'.rcplc to a parti. ci titi ,,f 't - t n.'t crier-.l 1!c flirts, and the c'v!i,,.i:;c'ul ne' 1; rc; 1' c;hcrv. Tale ronlfcluclicc v;, that ! !! &cO Ir;.l r= ,.": 's - .t r-aturitv, rise': cc.,Il Scot h'.ip dctcl'pg, rg r, , t it f <, d pifiig such .lrbanr'cril i,';ru ,;c . T rP'utrii ; .C (''p-' the family plans, and ;1:: ironic c' l n it. '" V tira'isa, rtCIi to Convince Ill-l;iilr? of iCc waknrs., i;C,;sii';icy, and treachery of !|i ii-''c:i; and sci' n;o;o. cf i's; pow er , wisdom, and go3i s.:;ho tie ccTnCa:C;. £y si'. irlhod they ftrcngtlihi hci!l i;urpati, .; b ct \e A::1 c'blied to fly, that ;i, 1li. ih cnl,',losd ,cain, that sxcrc trcci'acronds and cruel. ' C'h aL c;"xci.;neit ol tithe i'anl, winch was founded ci ' i. ; n. the l .i:d.'.l laws;, fancied calculated to pron',l Cd.,c.rd. .i}'at::: zn.d f':.: 'i!urcd thir aries against cai,c'.
other. They supported the pretensions oft!le viet! against RB 0 K the strong, and of the strong against the weak, as they saw ,V octagon. They sometimes took the monarch's part, and imcril;mes that of his vail sp. If anne per-fn of formi table gc;:iis afcldetlc the throne, they raised up rivals I opp"fC hin. Tlloi' cv wo were :)t to be seduced ,y g;.:d or liromiies, swell tlbduiid I-y fear. Every day was ^idAllcive of fonte revolution, whip vas al ways heguii hy the inliiltg.; of the tyra:i:;r, anil ::h!i:ys ended to their adva;in;ge. At ICligtli they l:cr:::;ic-:!f:crs of the most i;lipnr':nt pres in the i;i;land past' of tic country; and of i' ,!'i-rts that ws:;re bI:ilt ui:pin the coals,. 'I'" i plan of iifitir|atiil ;v;i o01l. I,'gnii to be clerici it'll c\,cilit'rIl wVicn0i a governor isis appointed as Java:.,ii. hi a t ;:larce said : is.ll ,Is, and aijpc.:fC :1 in gt' ct poil'. 'lie co;liI.iny tui 'h; p ic-h " to (I I.t si: :i the liii' i- ]!c; o' (sc. lniomy l!,. lvi.d hi-htsl: i ^ o;ii ; from l I :l- I.ifiton, that tiic !'n ttt:iu .she lid dLiivd .ilcat advantage from the brilliant chit kel,t ly the viecr) of (oa : that the c',ph:l (if i , Ai ;es sc In lie d .az;lei ii order to be the mire L;:i i { I .;.I( : il, lti;t it i ;as lleccl'lary to fl'ii e c i;::ii.;ic .d the c , the indians 51ho :Ire iulidlcd 1.L:c 1J;' th ic liii: tlhali til ill habitat tis of our ciial;t',. The Dl)tch l d a;iil:t:r i:iC; :' fr ;:fi\i;ilg a; air of dignity. They had e1n rici ;' C iicd in Ali, a pilrac' ; without a country, hilt la., I i i;;;l.;t a t i ic;. To silence there calumnies;, ths - cc:.uicd to p'lVail with several slate adjoining to J.i ., i) i, di a:iaibafidoi to prince ilitirice ii tie h ould ol (t;iJI;'c. 'I ir c. ccl;,i o th;. trj |i', - l:oiu:d them a (Iblsice advantage: as i ,:; '. I :ci c:dit wail the 'edition naiio'ls, aod iliat.;esd the .im!3iijcilt t:,: :'ti'il.sier. wihei's pro clifton l-as neef:.:.' to be (i'ta:in.d!, fr'ic.l ii cis IIliicl ic are going to c lj'l:.; i.,Vi Fsr
lE 0 0 ti H'llEN the company oli t.dillCdI Iii exriilfive privilr;e,,llc straits of Magellan, chili couill hlavc nn connection v.;;:l the Earl Indies, were ilpi:oplcry clur:gih included ill the ,ra;;i. If.[1c l.cm.ilc-, our o those rich and ciI. tcripr;ziing merchants, who ougilh cvcry whirl to be cold. lidlcrie as the bcncifatcir r of' their csil:::.i, fiuincd the po. jcCt of penetrating into tic Siillith ca hy the finllHirii ',.:li A\cCtl's bring diCeicd hly the only track that Wei's knllvn at that time; le fitted (ult two Ships which p1(llh d a 1t.,it, llucc called by hi name, rililii ' bcl.'crin C( ';:l }!i,,i-i a;: I tlc I. Sti. n l .:ii l: :will wcri'c i liicn ly il, : I rs( - o.f a- ri'lii- ntr l io lcr.ill tif Jlvai, v-lc hic wverc ntI. clin c . ;a;'dl th.' crew ( i,,'l I il, ih.'l . 1i hill' cpc. ''1Ht'. t)': I:.11,.tr.1 l i-crel. g i ,'.\ c: irn.et to le p-.ldc, .rlrt.,Id . . *ibi iitl ;.liit l : t-xli-iltVi i'l:lnei r.cc I(t -. .:. ]tiw::.;tit nhiiinci, it:, t jl ]irish ot givtuaiul; lh"rc \ii:s , -'': :ll d C '' i i ;', COil' l' ill cl , dec rl (d ; : ;' , .1 ;.> , , rIv ,, cr i i: , fi,(-li it. ., ti;:tl.! h Io crc filch .',.':!l !. i ,rl ci l{.lll- vs lit i, |,la ii . , I ';.ll : lldl' : I ri' i: Ci.; I . t : ,will lt',':l l l i- : 'll' C inr'( b(, d ';. [ It e '1 i."[ ;t ' : :1 i t i t): r f ,i.1 ' sri a, i t. . i c- tl ii ce s t' hit I:-(ci. n;;?'r!e brit . Ir is ;"; ' .l '-, tiha:t this i mlr il lhlas 1 ' un.iii('i tIh it tciit - r i ' llt, i lt; ; ti: the the f}ia:r'l , ' ;l\,-\ '*A -i n'-r .\ iilr , % illic 1ti't hl.vc bheci renewed, il t'- h.,'l not hen ;'1';. red by prince Maurice, fa shred bhy the Station r.l. .grind encouraged to brave :hr it, iln by the' fircnl.gh they derived from their feilc. ~ ,';i; :'t ].l ea. T'ni vii the tranquility of this island may have beer tsi':.:'^ .i:d h' vi;irnis comi.t.i.ict:. f-icr;;l wars, and fair-,i'-, :?rci;. it continue ic, he as much in subjection l r't.c Ittin, a: they with it to hs.,BA. T-.
Bantam extend!. over the wclfterC part. One of it sir 0 K reigns llvilig rcfigrscd the crowns to hi,. Srl, wi rccalcd . cii . to the throne iln Iro by tlihe .ltrtr l rritlefsnrc's of Iris temper, the bad conduct of hi. furrcrrc r, and a powerful faIitiuro. is pasty wa 'on the point of p wailing, when the yoliluni rionarcrl, bclirgcil il his capital hby al army edfliirty tliolfeinil :reit, sithlioit an) ndarllrctnts, except the rCoinlplZioi (oi hi dia. b:l(liecs, implored tie pro leslie of the D]llcli. Slice flew to his iafiltiam e, beat his cueitlicS, deliver c thu fit lits rival, atrl re-cal)lifilrcd his :r:thm sty. 'I'holji the cxpditiort was bliss:, short, :ant rapids, auld corIHlc(leIntly ol(.0111 ot bie c; 'penCriver they contrived to make nite-l,u'e' of tile war amount to a: prodigious fuiri. Tee liltllutiou of things would not adn:it of a frtitilly into the finis demllandledl for so great a piece of lattice, lnd tile exhausted place of tile finances i;ade it iirpofliblc to discharge it. 1I this cxtrcimilry this wec;k prince determined to entail slavery oil hiinif'lf alit Isis dc lccndants, by granting to irs deliverers tic exclusive trade of lis dominion. The company maintain this great privilege isili three Inlidred and sixty-eight rirerC, who are Stationed in two bl;il forts, one of which serves as a habitations for tile governor, the other as a palace for the king. 'The expence; of this settlement amount to to lore til;ll oo,ooo0livrcis , wv.hiith are regained upon the nierclhandif l r old there. 'Heir clear profits consist of what tlhry gain upon thlec millions weight of pepper, which they oblige the inhabitants to sell at twenty-five livres twelve fol b' a hundred. THESE profits are inconsiderable in cone parison of what the company receives sion r Tlieribon, wirichl it fIbjeclcd without any efforts, without iitligiucs, and without ex pence. The Dutch were scarce fettled at Java, when the sultan of this narrow bit very fertile flare, put iinirflf render theirprotction, to avoid fuhbinlitiigtoa rligl)(.lil iing,*4,J ,,75l. b ' : 4d. i,.,',1iiinc
B O ( K price more powerful than himself. He fells them an,' really a thousand !this of rice, each weighing three thousand three hunt lao pounds, at seventy-fix livres fixteccr fols ' a lfrt. A million weight of cigar, the finrlt of which coss thirteen livres nine fols b a hundred ; one million two hundred thousand pounds of cote, at lour fols' a pound; a htindrcd quintals of pepper at four fols eight deniers d a pound ; thirty thousand pounds o' cotton, the finest of :hiicil costs no more than one hevi eight fols C a pound; fix hundred thousand pounds oi areca, at twelve liv f a hulnidied. Though fixing tilrcr pIricc, so low is a m. tiasltl impotlion upon tillie i. k. suis of the in!;abi;;;lts, tIhc people of T'lieribon who :!e ther most gentle and civilized of any in the ill;ilnd, lve never been provoked by this injustice to take up arles. A hundred liuroi)eani are sufficient to keep them ill l'u!, scion. The expences of this settlement amoi:::t ti no mere than 41,o0o livres s, which is gained by !illni imported thither. THE empire of Matron, which formerly c ::'.:;dl ce-r the xuhole ifi::nd, ard at prfcn't t'ecs ;uip ibl" :!. part of it, r-as the lait that v as reduced to fubjcrie:l Often vanquished, and for.etim-rs vanquishing, it ce.: need its struggle for independency, when the fool .r.: brother of a sovereign, .who died in 1704, dispute tl he l'c cession. The nation we:: divided bervuceen the two in.' He who was interred to the crown by order :f fier:ce:'I.sI had so visibly the advantage, that he mush foor;l la-c g; the supreme power entirely into his brands, if the Dutch had not declared in giaour of his rival. The part, espoused by these republicans, at length prevailed after series of contests, more aai;e, frequent, wel! condiiftcr and obstinate, than could have b-en expected. 'I he yon prince, whom they wanted to deprive of the right cf '.-bot;' -E *, . . * b Abt .I 1 r. 9d. '. d Ab.:ut . . b r d . '. . . 'h o c; . 'd,. f I. dec
cession to the king his father, displayed so much intre- B O K rapidity, prudence and firmer's, that le would have tri unmoved over his enemies, had it not been for the ad vantage they derived from their imagines, forts, and ships. His uncle usurped his throne; but fic:ved him felt unworthy to fill it. When the company restored him to the crown, they dilated laws to him. They chose the place where his court was to be fixed, and secured his attachment by a citadel in which a guard was maintained, with no other apparent view than to protect the prince. After all there precautions, they employed every artifice to lull his at mention by pleasures, to gratify his avarice by presents, and to flatter his vanity by pompous cinbaiics. From thin :ra, the prince and his successors, who were educated suit ably to the part they were to aA, were nothing more than the despicable tools of the despotism of the company. All that is necessary for their support, is three hundred horse and four hundred soldiers, whose maintenance, including the pay of the agents, coss them 760,ooo livres %. Tlni company are amply reimbursed for this expence Icy the advantages it secures them. The harbours of this slate afford docks for the construction of all the small vessels and sloops employed in the company's services 'They are supplied from hence with all the timber that is wanted in their several Indian settlements, and in part of tIcir foreign colonies. Here too they load their veils with the productions with which the kingdom is obliged to furnish them; consisting of five tl uufand lass of lice; at forty-eight livres b a last; as much fait as they re l:i: c, at twenty-eight livre; fi;tcn l ful a l ait; a hlunsdicd thou sand pounds of pepper, at nineteen livres fours fols d a hundred; all the indigo that is raised, at three livics c a pound; cadjang, ior the use of their ship;, at l;'cnty- | *3,2 sol. , 2l1. 2s. About iL. 5 td. ! ht:. 9s I caDeout ,,. 7d. =.,P l~~~~~~~~~~~~is
B o O K si; liv le fir le sxetn fla lat ; cottons yarn, from twc've,I1.,fols to note livre ' :1 pudlll, icColsdintg to its (1 amity: and the finally quantity of c:idaillomllnl that i pilotlciVd there, at a lamrfeful ipric. Tllr sand ol' Madura, which is separate from I'ic ports of Matron only 1y) a narrow channel, ii obli:,"l, by a garrison of fifteen eilc, to f runilli river t a very u1,7 rate. This sails, in conlilnin with tie plcoIpl of Ja:;l labours ru iter a Hill More tedious oltprzffi. '1 lie (err piny's co(lmifi,'.lrics ticakc life of flf' nllle m file ill other t.i prciirt a larger Silt lntiiy of g;.i fe-n rltec .r.,' he that nee to firiinll ttiln . 'Isis fraud, pl a ti l for l!i.r sown pris Id l let %:l;llt ci', h i', llt hitherto ricci itifiilct i ;c"'I thei i. 1l, icalfrn to lipe th,It it cecr r.' l. Ital'mil ., c' is the only dilitilt 'i ti; i!l.ld ol Java, that is int cx. p,)lcid tothlicfc iTfihl;'i]t ))ra;iic,. '1hl t:lcl uhc lise :l ,F' it, ion account of its not f'unl:i;i:i 'l"Iy ;iticic of I;:;:lc, have iced no corrcfp'il. i': e \i'hl ii. So. te rC the rit, ct chi having ailee)cdl the tillllilcry of the Jasvan!c. I:,y gr.i.i:;ally ulltccrntiiii i thee l;aw,e tll maintained it; reed :atisicI s' > hays: si 'aIocd ellen. tm i' i:' tonic attention to :lgricult c, :hed with having fccurtid ' thclnl:clvc' a coiling -e leci-flcly exclusive, alive not at. tempted to acquire any piolecxty in the iliad. 'l'it;r territory extends; no farther than the fnc ill kingdom ot Jacatra. The ravage' cmniIttc(ld bhy thee Ditch whc :ii., conquered this Italy, a'd tie tyr.lnly that I;eloirs'l l'i.:t conquests, had turned it hit .1 dccicrt. It still leIll:ci: . ',c' cultivated and innictivc. The Dutch, th')fc of t!ic:i itn particular two .,, I India to feck their fortunes, wcrec hu:dl a:licy iiilfic( to ic vcr this cxcc!lclit fill frnol it. c\lxhu: d slates ct. Il several times proposal to have recall l; to the Gerin::IC;; and by tie ecncOliracCllntllt of folnc advances, all ;)I1II gratuities, to cxcicif; tliri iuldultry in :a manner tile lmoll,A All ;1. -. :d. . tl. F ,, a ',u 6d. lo 1i. 31.,ail-all
Advantageous to the company. What there laborious 1 0 0 K people might have (lone in the fields, the silk manual. turners from China, alt tale linen-weavers from Coromandel might have executed in the workshops, for the improvement of manufactures. As these useful pross did not favour any private views, they continued to be nothing more than projects. At length the Governors General Imhoff and Mosul, struck with a scene of such great disorder, endeavoured to find out a remedy. Wits this view they sold to the Chinese and the Euro means, at a finally price, thu lands which the government had acquired by oppressive means. This management has not produced all the good that was expelled from it. The new proprietors have seldom ventured to keep any thing upon their estates but fhccp and cattle, for which they have aln easy, certain, and advantageous market, 'Try would have applied themselves to agriculture, which requires more care, greater pecuniary encouragements, ant a greater number of hands, if the company did not inst Qn their furnishing the commodities at the same price they give for them in the rest of the island. At this pre feat time there arc no more than a hundred and fifty thousand slaves, who are anther the direction of a small number of free men The produce of their labours con sins of two million weight of coffee, a hundred and fifty thousand pounds of pepper, twenty five thousand pounds of cotton, ten thousand pounds of indigo, ten million of sugar, and fix thousand leagues of areca. The two last articles have been cultivated with more spirit than the rest, because private persons, having the liberty to pur chafe and export them, pay twelny per cent. dearer for them than the c many. This commodities, as well as all those that are pro diuccd in Java, are carried to Batavia, which is built on the rli. of he act tat of a t capital of acatra. Vos. i. O A CITY
B 6° K A clITY which has become so considerable a mart, mud,have deceived many successive improvements. It i3 well built; the houses, though not magnificent, are pleasant, commodious, and wll 'furnished ; the streets are broad, running in strait lines-with rows of large trees on each side, arid canals cut through them; they are always clean, though it has not been thought propel to pave them, for fear of increasing the heat by too strong a reflection of the fun's rays. All the public buildings have an air of gran. dear; and the generality of travellers look upon Batavia as one of the finest cities in the world. Tai number bi inhabitants, including the suburbs and liberties, dues not exceed an hundred thousand. The greatest part of this number are slaves. Here are likewise Malayans, Javanese, free Macassar, who are all of them indolent enough'; and Chinese, who have the exclusive exercise of all trades, are the only cultivators of the fuga cane, and manage all the manufactures. The-number d Europeans tay amount to ten thousand; of these, for thousand born in India, are, to an inconceivable degree, degenerated. This strange perversion is probably owing to the generally received custom, of committing the ca of their education to slaves. TaE corruptions at Batavia have, however, been exam grated. Dissolute manners are not more prevalent then than in other settlements, formed by the Europeans it Asia. It is true they drink to excess; but the ties of mar. rage are held sacred. None but unmarried men lege concubines, who are generally of the rank of fives. Til priests have endeavoured to flop the progress of these con nations, which are always secret, by refusing to baptize the offspring of them; but they are become less rigid since a carpenter belonging to the company, who choW his Ton Should be of some religion or other, took it int his head to have him circumcifid.,'Luxvt
LuxURY has maintained its ground more successfully B o than concubinage. The ladies, who are universally amb.- . tions of distinguishing themselves by the richness of.theii dress, and the magnificence of their equipage, have car cried their table for finery to excess. They never stir out without a numerous train of laves; and either ride in magnificent cars, or are carried in superb palanquins. They wear gold or silver tissues, or fine Chinese sattins, with a net of;gold thrown over them; and their head-dress is loaded with pearls and diamonds. In 1758 the govern ment attempted to reform these extravagancies, by pre scribing a mode of-dress suitable to each rank. :'ThTee regulations were received with contempt, means were found to elude, or to purchase an immunity from them , and no change took place. It would, indeed, have been a Arrange singularity, if the use of precious stones had been discontinuing the country that gave them births ind-that the Dutch .had regulated a species of luxury in India, which :they brought from thence with a view of in producing, r increasing it in this part of the world. The force and example of-an European government struggle its vain againft-the'laws and manners of.the climate of Alia. THE heats which might naturally be expected to be ex effie at Batavia, are allayed by an agreeable sea-breeze, which begins to blow every day at ten o'clock, and con tinuestillfour. The nights are rendered cool by land breezes, which die away at day break. It would contribute to make the air as pure as the sky is serene, if they made their canals somewhat deeper, and brewed sluices. Disorders are not, however, very frequent here. The mortality that prevails among the soldiers and sailors, is rather owing to debauchery, bad provisions and fatigue. than to the inclemency of the climate. NOTHING can be more agreeable than the environs one /or two leagues round the capital. The country is inter dispersed with delightful villas, plantations that yield an,0 2 agreed
O 0 K agreeable shade, and gardens finely ornamented, and even --.e disposed with taste. It is the fashion to live there all the,year, and the people in office only come to Batavia to transact public business. These charming retreats for. merely owed their tranquillity to forts erected at a certain distance from one another, to prevent the incursions of the Javanese. Since there people have contracted a habit of slavery, these redoubts serve as barracks for the refresh. ment of the recruits, after the fatigues of a long voyage. BATAVIA is situated at the bottom of a deep bay, con. gaining several islands of a middling size, which refil the impetuosity of the sea. It is, properly speaking, a road; but is as safe a retreat from all winds, and in all seasons as the best harbour. The only inconvenience is the dig. cult of going, in stormy weather, aboard the ships that are obliged to anchor at a considerable distance. The lip Undergo the necessary repairs at the small island of OnrurR, which, though two leagues and a half distant, is oneit those that chiefly contribute to the goodness of the real It forms an excellent dock, is well fortified, and nero without three or four hundred European carpenters; and as vessels can easily take in their lading there, magazine-re ereaed for the reception of the larger kinds of mer chastise intended for exportation. A pretty considerable river, after fertilizing the fields, and refreshing Batavia seems to fall into the sea, on purpose to serve as a chant of communication between the town and the sipping The lighters that are continually meeting each others this passage, and formerly drew twelve feet water, r reduced to one-half: the sands and rubbish have formed banks which, if suffered to increase, will prove an income leniency, and occasion a very considerable expence. It' well worth while, on account of the importance of Batari to pay a serious attention to every thing that may coi tribute to the improvement and utility of its road, whic is the molt important one in India,,AI
ALL the Testes sent out by the company from Europe to B O O K Asia arrive there; and except what goes directly from ' Bengal and Ceylon, they are laden in their return with all the articles of those rich sales, which create among us so much surprize and admiration. THE expeditions to the different sea-ports of India are hardly less, perhaps, they are more considerable. Euro pean vessels are employed in this service during the un avoidable flay they are obliged to make in these remote seas. THIS two-fold navigation is founded upon that which connects all the Dutch settlements with Batavia. Those that lie to the east are led from their situation, the na ture of their merchandise, and their wants, to keep up a brisker correspondence with it than the refit. But all of them are obliged to have pass-ports. Any ship belonging to a private person, that should neglef this precaution, which was taken to prevent fraudulent trade, would be seized by the sloops that are continually cruising in there latitudes. When they arrive at the place of their destination they deliver to the company such of their commodities as they have reserved the exclusive trade of to them selves, and dispose of the rest to whom they please. The flave-trade constitutes one of the principal branches of the commerce last mentioned. Six thousand of both sexes are annually carried to Batavia, where they are employed in domestic service, the cultivation of the lands, or manu features. The Chinese, who cannot hiring or invite over any of their countrywomen, make their choice among the slaves. To there articles of importation may be added those brought every year, by a dozen Chinese junks, front Enjoy, Limp, and Canton. Their cargo is valued 4t about three millions a: and consists of hampshire, porcelain silk and cotton fluff., which are tit i in Batavia and,°3 the
B 0 0 }t thereat of the Dutch colonies; of inwrought silks, which,1L are bought by the company when they are in any considerable quantity, or.which, when there are but few of them, are sold to there who choose to send them to Macassar or Sumatra, where the grandees have pages made of them: of tea, which was formerly engrossed by the company, but is now given up to private traders, who send it to Eu. rope, where it is sold by the company who dedua fort; per cent. for the freight. This tea is generally bad, and of the worst fort. THE hunks, which betides the aforementioned article:, regularly bring two thousand Chinese to Java, who come thither in hopes of making their fortunes, carry bark flag's puzzles and the fins of the Ihaik, which are reckoned among the delicacies cf the table in China. Another ar. title they receive in exchange from Batavia is trepan, to the annual amount of two thousand peculs. Each pecul, weighing a hundred and twenty-five pounds, fells from twelve to forty livres a according to its quality. It grow; only two feet from the sea upon the barren rocks of the call, and of Cochin-china, from whence it is carried to batavia, together with those bird's nests so much celebrated all over t 'e cars which are found in the same placer. A pecul of the last-mentioned merchandise fells from 1,400 to 2,800 livres b, and the Chinese carry away one thousand. These nests are of an oval ilape, an inch high, three inches round, and weigh about half an ounce. They are formed by a species of the swallow; its head, breast, and wings are of a fine blue, and its body milk white. They are composed of the spawn of fish, or of glutinous froth which the agitation of the sea leaves upon the rocks, to which they are fastened at the bottom and on the side. When seasoned with salt and spices, they make a nourishing, wholesome and delicious jelly, and are an article of the higlhci luxury at the tables us,, From ln?. 6d. t 11. 15. ' From 6r 1. 5, to 2t 1. l^.,t!,e
thereafter mohammedan. Theirwhitenefsconflitutes their B O O K delicacy. The Chinese likewise carry away cabin and pep IL per, though the company reserved the exportation of those articles to themselves. Their principal agents pretend, for their own advantage, that these exportations are not prejudicial to the body which has intrusted its interests to their management.,rTH traffic of the Chinese at Batavia, besides the mer chandifc they export from thence, brings them in some ready money. This wealth is increased by the confider able sums that the Chinese settled at Java remit to their families, and by the fins sooner or later amans by those, who, content with their fortune, return to their own country, of which they seldom loft fight. THE Europeans are not so well treated at Batavia as the Chinese. None are admitted there as merchants but the Spaniards. Their ships come from Manilla with gold, which is the produce of the island; and with cochineal and piastres brought from Mexico. They take, in ex change, linens fur their own life and that of Acapulco; but the principal article is cinnamon, the consumption of which is much increased by the general ife of chocolate in the new world, and the progress it is daily making in Europe. Since the English and French have failed to the Philippines, the former branch of this trade has considerably declined; the latter differed a change in the year 1759. Before that time, cinnamon was sold to the Spaniards at a moderate price; but, at present, they are expected to give the fame that it bears in Europe. This innovation occasions a coolness between the two co ionics. The consequences of this misunderstanding have not come to our knowledge. ALL we know is, that the French hardly ever go to Batavia but in time of war. They purchase rice and arrack there for the ife of their inlips and their fettlc-,0 4 nlclltS,
B 0 0 K ments, and make their payments for these commodities,in silver or bills of exchangeable English are oftener fern there. All their vessels coming from Europe to China put in at this harbour un. der pretence of taking in fresh water; but in reality wish a view of vending the goods, which are the property of the ship's company, confiding of cloths, hardware, glasses, arms, Madeira wines, and Portugal oils. This clandestine trade seldom exceeds a million of livres a. BESIDES the English vessels sent from Europe, there are three or four belonging to the same nation, which are every year fitted out for Batavia from different parts of India. They have attempted to sell opium and linens there, but have been obliged to discontinue this importation which was too prejudicial to private interest to be permitted. Their trade is limited to the purchase of sugar, which they export to all parts, and of arrack, pro. vicious quantities of which are consumed in their colo nies. Arrack is a kind of brandy made of rice, syrup of sugar, and cocoa-tree, vihich, after being fermented together, are distilled. This is one among other branches of trade which the Dutch by their industry, have de privet the Portuguese of. The art of making arrack, which was originally established at Goa, has for the mort part been transferred to Batavia. ALL imported or exported commodities pay this city a tax of five per cent. The revenue arising from the customs is farmed at the rate of i,t82,ooo livres b. Th: extent of the trade must not be estimated by this rule, Which, however, is always the most to be depended upon. The people in office pay what they think proper, and the company pay nothing, as that would be paying to the-;- flies. Though they are here, as well as in other places, the only merchants in the island, the profits arising shun :he productions peculiar to Batavia, do not defray their 7-5c'. 79,9751.,expencc:
expences of this celebrated mart, which amount to fix B 0 0 K millions a. ONE of the articles of this expence, which is undoubt Themannoc,of confusedly very great, is the maintenance of a council, which ingthclf- gives laws to all the settlements in India, and haste sole fh;r of thee direction of affairs. This council is composed-of the go, any in In, vernon of the Dutch Indies, the director-general, five ia, and i. directors in ordinary, and a small number of extraordinary counsellors, which last have no votes, and only sup ply the place of the deceased counsellors in ordinary, till successors are appointed. THE power of nomination to there offices is veiled in the direction at home. They are open to all who have money, or are relations or retainers to the governor-gen neral. On his demise, the directors in ordinary provisionally appoint a successor, who seldom fails to be con firmed in his employment. If the contrary happens, he is not admitted into the council; but may enjoy all the honours granted to the presidents that retire. THe governor-general reports to the council the state of all affairs in the island of Java: and each counsellor that of the province intrusted to his care. The director has the inspection of the chill and magazines at Batavia, which supply the rest of the settlements. All purchases, and all sales are directed by him. The signature of the company is indispensably necessary in all commercial transactions THOUGH all points ought, strictly speaking, to be de cited in the council by a majority of votes, the governor general seldom fails to exercise an uncontrolled authority This influence is owing to the care he takes to admit none but persons of inferior abilities, and to the ;interest they find in making their court to hin, in order to advance their fortunes. If, on any occasion, ie meets 'with an oppositions that thwarts his designs, lie is at Hi-,a ;6:,l.rbcty,berty i
B oo K betty to take his own measures, making himself answerable,. for the consequences the governor-general, like all the rest of the officers, is appointed only for five years, but usually holds hi. place during life. There have formerly been instances es governors-general, who have retired from business, to pass their days in tranquillity at Batavia; but the ill treatment experienced from their successors, has, of late years, de. termined them to remain in their post till death. They formerly appeared in great state, but it was laid aside by governor-general Imhoff, as useless and troublesome. Though all orders of men may aspire to this dignity, none of the army, and but few of the gown, have been known to obtain it. It is always filled by merchants, because the spirit of the company is entirely commercial. Those who are born in India have seldom sufficient address or abilities to procure it. The present president, however, has never been in Europe. THE salary of this principal officer is but slender; he has no more than two thousand livres a month, and sub. distance equal to his pay. The greatest part of his income arises from the liberty allowed him, of taking as much as he pleases from the magazines at prime cost, and from the liberty he assumes of trading to any extent he judges con lenient. The income of the counsellors, members ofthe council, is likewise very considerable, though the company allows them only four hundred livres b a month, and goods to the same amount. THE council meets but twice a week, unless when for extraordinary events require a more strict attendance. They appoint to all civil and military employments in India, except those of the writer and sergeant, which they thought might be left, without inconvenience, at the disposal of the governors of the respective settlements. On Jai advancement to any post, every man is obliged to take,* $-!. ,s 7. b 171. xos.,as
an oath, that he has neither promised, nor given any B 0 0 K thing, to obtain his employment. This custom, which is very ancient, familiarizes people to false oaths, and proves no bar to corruption. Whoever considers the num ber of absurd and ridiculous oaths necessary to be taken at present in most countries, on being admitted into any bfcicty or profession whatever, will be less surprized to find prevarication till prevails where perjury has led the way. ALL connections of commerce, not excepting that of the Cape of Good Hope, are made by the council, and the result of them always falls under their cognizance. Even the hips that fail directly from Bengal and Ceylon, only carry to Europe the invoices of their cargoes. Their aecompts, as well as all others, are sent to Batavia, where a general register is kept of all affairs. TtE council of India is not a separate body, nor is it independent. It aCts in subordination to the direction established in the United Provinces. Though this is, in the strict sense of the word, a direction, the care of disposing of the merchandise twice a year, is divided between fix chambers concerned in this commerce. Their business is more or less according to the funds that belong to them. THE general affcmbly,which has the direCtion of the business ofthe company, is composed of directors of all the cham boers. Amsterdam nominates eight; Zealand, four; each of the other chambers, one; and the state but one. Hence we see that Amsterdam, having half the number of voices, has only one to gain to enable it to turn the scale, where every question is to be decided by a majority of votes. THIS body, which is composed of seventeen persons, meets twice or thrice a year, during fix years at Amsterdam and two at Magdeburg. The other chambers arc too inconsiderable to enjoy this prerogative. It having been found by experience, that the success frequently de-depended
B 0 0 K pended on fecit intrigues, it was proposed, about the middle of the last century, to chuse four of the molly able of the seventeen deputies, and to invest them with authority to regulate all affairs in Europe and India, without the concert of their colleagues, and without being obliged even to ars their opinion. Ir is true, their mystery's transactions, and the con sequences cf chit, cannot long be kept a secret. The fleet that returns at the end of the summer, brings their books of accounts regularly from India. They are com pared with those in Europe. The general balance of the company's accounts are always published in May. Every person concerned knows what he has gained or lost. The gain is commonly confiderabie. THE company's fund did not at first exceed 12,919,680 livres ; Amsterdam furnished 7,349,830 b; Zealand, z,67-,76-c; Delft, 940,oood; Rotterdam, 354,8oo0; Horn, 533,736f; Enchuyfen, 1,o73,550o. THIS fund was divided into sums of 6,ooo livres, which were called shares. Tri is numbers were two thousand one hundred, since 1Cg9; however, the profits are divided into. two thou. fend one hundred and thirty. It was then that the com any., who had always been protected by the house of Orange, and still blood in need of its assistance, made the stadtholder a prefect of a revenue of thirty shares for life. Time Shares sell for ready money, or upon credit, like merchandise. No other form is requisite than to substitute the name of the buyer for that of the feller in the com any's books, the only title by which they are held by the proprietor. Avarice and the spirit of commerce have in ve:-tid another method of acquiring a share in this traffic. Persons who have no stock to sell, and who do not intend to buy, enter into a reciprocal engagement, that one of,5 5,3,61. b .3z.sj555l . -l. c. 6,7r 7 41. 133. 6d. d 4i,i5L 15,52s .ic. c. f z,35L 9. e, 46,.671. i6s. 3. 3 h act. Ios.,the
the parties shall deliver, and the other receive a certain B 0 0 K number, at such a time, at a price agreed upon. On the day fixed, they compute the difference between the cur rent price of the flocks and their value when the agree ment was made; they fettle the balance of the account in money, and the translation is over. The desire of gain ing, and the fear of losing by these speculations, is pro dufive of great anxiety. They invent good or bad news; they favour or oppose the reports of others; they try to penetrate the secrets of the court, or to purchase those of foreign ministers. These clashing interests have often disturbed the public tranquillity. Matters have even been carried to such a height, that the public have been obliged to take measures to put a stop to the rage of flock-jobbing. The most efficacious method has been to declare all bargains of tale for time null and void, unless it appears, by the company's books, that the feller was a proprietor at the time the bargain was made. Men of honour hold themselves obliged to fulfil their engagements notwithstanding this law: but it is natural to think that it must, and indeed it does, make these transactions lets frequent. THE price of stocks, which may be looked upon as the true thermometer of the company, has often varied. In judicious or unsuccessful treaties, fresh competitions, ac cents unavoidably attending an extensive commerce, the tranquillity or the disturbances of India, and of Europe in particular, have occasioned these changes. For tome years the standing price of flocks has been two hundred and forty per cent. more than their original value. They formerly rose as.high as fix hundred and fifty per cent. So considerable an advance must have greatly enriched the original proprietors of there funds, and the families that inherit them : but the present purchasers seldom get more than three and a half per cent. infeft for their money. This remarkable prosperity has no parallel in pillory. Let us try to explain the cause of i-.,7~H
0 0 K THE earlier success of the company was owing to theirs having the good fortune, in less than half a century, to Cause of take more than, three hundred Portuguese vessels. There the prosper 'Pomp Imps, home of which were bound for Europe, and others °omPfny- for different sea-ports in India, were laden with the fpoiis,of Asia. This wealth, which the captors had the honesty not to meddle with, brought to the company immense returns, or served to procure them. Thus the sales were very considerable, though the exports were very mode rate. THE decline of the maritime power of the Portuguese, encouraged the Dutch to attack the settlements belong ing to that nation, and greatly facilitated the conquests of them. They found the forts strongly built, defended by a numerous artillery, and provided with every thing that government and the rich individuals of a victorious nation might naturally be supposed to have collected to gather for their protection. To form a just idea of this advantage, we need only consider what it has cost other nations to obtain permission to fix in an. advantageous situation, to build houses, magazines, and forts; and to procure all the conveniences necessary for thei.fecurity, or their commerce. Went the company found themselves in possession of fd many rich and well established settlements, they did not give way to a grasping ambition. They were desirous of extending their commerce, not their conquests. They can hardly be accused of any instances of injustice, except those that seemed necessary to secure their power. The East was no longer a scene of bloodshed, as it had been at tie time, when the desire of distinguishing themselves by martial exploits, and the rage of making proselytes gave the Portuguese a menacing air wherever they ap feared in the Indies, THE Dutch learned to have arrived rather to revenge, and rescue the natives of the country, than to enslave,tilelll. 2
them. They maintained no wars with them, but such as B 0 0 I were necessary to procure settlements upon their-coasts, and to oblige them to enter into treaties of commerce. It is true, there people received no advantage from them, and were deprived of a great part of their liberty; but in other respects, their new masters, rather less barbarous than the conquerors they dispossessed, left the Indians at liberty to govern themselves, and did not compel them to change their laws, their manners, or their religion. BY their manner of posting and distributing their forces, they contrived to keep the people in awe, whom they had at first conciliated by their behaviour. If we except Cochin and Malacca, they had nothing upon the continent but factories and small forts. The islands of Java and Ceylon contained their troops and magazines: and from thence their ships maintained their authority, and protected their trade throughout the Indies. THIS trade became very considerable by the spices fall ing into their hands, after the destruction of the Portuguese settlements. The demand for this valuable article has been more or less extensive, according to circum fiances. At present they sell every year a hundred and fifty thousand pounds of cloves in India, and three hundred and fifty thousand in Europe: the price in both parts of the world is fixed at ten livres a a pound. Though the Dutch give no more than eight fols, and a .few de niersb a pound, it costs them four livres, fix fols, on account of charges and deficiencies. India takes off no more than a hundred thousand weight of nutmegs, whereas Europe consumes two hundred and fifty thousand. It is bought at the rate of two fols, three deniers a pound, and the necessary expences bring it to two livres, ten fols e. It fells for seven livres, ten fols f, on this side the cape, and for no more than five livres, twelve folks, on the ' 8s. gd. b About 8d. or gd. c About 3s. d. About d. - ss. zdj 6s. 6d'. 4, Iod.,,other
B O O K other side. This difference will never induce any mer-nil chant to bring us the nutmeg; because the nuts that present all over Asia are Shrivelled, have no oil in them, and often decay. Ten thousand pounds of mace is sufficient for the supply of India, a hundred thousand for that of Europe. The prime cost is sixteen fols, fix deniers a a pound, it rises to five livres eight fols b, and is sold every where at twelve livres sixteen fols c. As for the cinna mon, the consumption of it in Europe does not exceed four hundred thousand weight, and in India does not amount to two hundred thousand; the greatest part of which is sent to Manilla for the use of Spanish America. It is every where sold by the company at present, at the rate of ten livres ten fols d a pound, though it does not cot them twelve fols c. That which they refute to purchase, as bern too coarse, is made into oil. They make pre sent of it to the powers of Asia who do not chute to pur chafe it: and it fells here from about twenty to fifty or sixty livres f an ounce. The smell is so strong, and at tl:c lame time so agreeable, that it would be commonly, if not universally used, if the Dutch d-d not ask so high a price for it: it being more for their advantage to sell this spice in its original form. WE cannot conclude this important article without ob serving, that in proportion as the company's profits have decreased, they have raised the price of spices both in India and Europe. This, though in itself a bad expedient, has not injured in any great degree, however, the sale of cloves and nutmeg, for which there is no succedaneum, But the case has been otherwise in regard to cinnamon. A spurious kind has, in federal markets, been substituted for the genuine; and this branch of commerce is visibly on the decline, and ': ; continue to be more so every day.,A-oil:St. t Ab-,:-.: 4- 1 ' A nos I d S. ed - 9. 2d * Ab-ut 6U. f j7i. 6d. ;o i:. Szx. 5d.,THE
THE company have spared no pains to preserve the ex B 0 0 Ki elusive trade of pepper, which they held for some time. ,. ' Though their attempts have not been quite successful, they have so far gained their point, as to maintain a confider able superiority over their competitors. The quantity they sell of this article in Europe amounts to five millions weight, and three millions five hundred weight in India. The company purchase it, upon the whole, at thirty-fix livres a hundred weight, and sell it to us at a hundred livres b; and from forty-eight to seventy-two livres , td the people of Asia. IN consequence of the sale of spices the greatest part of the India trade mutt of course fall into the hands of the Dutch. The necessary of exporting them, gave them an opportunity of appropriating to themselves several other branches of commerce. In process of time they became matters of the coasting trade of Asia, as they were al ready of that of Europe. This navigation employed a great number of ships and sailors, who without causing any expence to the company contributed to its security. Be virtue of these superior advantages, they were en able, for a long tim:, to prevent the attempts of other nations to interfere in the Indian trade, or to make them abortive. The produce of this rich country came to the Europeans through the hands of the Dutch: who never experienced those restraints from their country, which have in later times been imposed every where else. The government, convinced that the proceedings of other na tions neither ought, nor could be a rule to dire theirs, always gave the company leave to dispose of their mer chahdize at the capital freely, and without reserve. At the time this society was instituted, the united provinces had neither any marmfaaures nor crude materials to work upon. It was, therefore, at that time, no inconvenience, but rather a point of great policy, to allow, and even * l. Its. 6d. b 4!. 7. 6d. ' About -1. I;:. 6d. on an verJig, VOL . P encourage,
B 0 ° K encourage, the citizens to wear litres and filffs imported from India. The various manufactures which were intro. duce into the republic, in consequence of the repeal of the dia of Nantes, might have induced them to lay aside the thoughts of purchasing their cloathing from so remote a country; but the fondness that prevailed in Europe at that time for French fashions, had given so advantageous an opening for the manufactures of the refugees, that they had not the Cast idea of departing from the ancient channel. Since the high price of labour, the necessary consequence of a redundancy of cast, has listened the manufactures, and obliged the nation to trade upon a frugal plan, India bluffs have had a greater run than ever. It was thought that fewer inconveniencies would arise from enriching the Indians than the English or French, whose prosperity would not fail to hasten the ruin of a fate, whole opulence is only supported by the rashness, til disputes, or indolence of other powers. Tints wise conduce has retarded the decline of the com. any; but the change is at last offered, notwithstanding the flattering illusions of an imaginary prosperity, A detail of faCts will set this truth in a clear lights c have fcc that the original fund of the company, which has never been since augmented, was no more tha 2,g919,60o livres'. With this slender capital, they at. tricked the Spaniards and Portuguese in the Indian fat, ainedl conquests over thcfc, then warlike nations, and over the people of Asia, whose numbers, at Icalt, rondel them formidable ; they formed magazines, built cities, ci merited forts without number; and ciiabliflied or support their coimmrcc b: force of arms. These amazing c. pcnces lasted from its first inftiuritn till the year 1i6, the ara VIwhen all their acquisitions were made, all tlbh ficttlcrio-uas ior;cd. Cu, ing this long and restless periods 56j,:36 !.,til
the annual returns amounted to twenty and three-fourths B o 1 K per cent. THE company had afterwards no occasion to send one fleet after another into the earl, to assert the dominion of those seas, to raise new armies to subdue or awe their enemies, or to lavish their blood and treasure in securing theirpoffelfions. Their operations were only those of a bris; and advantageous commerce; and, consequently, their dividend, till the year 1728, increased to about three and twenty per cent. It has since that time gradually fallen to twenty, fifteen, ant even lower. We foresee a still farther reduction. It is necessary to state the reasons of this conjecture. IT is demonstrated, that at the dosing of the books in 175p, the capital of the company in India did not amount to more than 7 ,000,000 livres a, the fleet that was on its way to Europe flood then in 19,200,0oo b, and the vessels fitted out for India in 3,ooo,ooo of livres . They had a dcbtof 14,000,000 livres 1 in India, and were 22,400,000 litres' in arrears in Europe. Consequently the flock of he company, exclusive of their fortifications, did not exceed 56,800,000 livres OF this sum, inconsiderable as it was, there were only 3,4oo,ooo livres in commercial effets; that is to say, cady money, merchandize, and good debts. The re hinder consulted of bad debts to the amount of three millions h, and of doubtful ones to the amount of 6,6oo,ooo rresi; S,ooo,ooo livres allotted for provision for the able; 1,400,0001 for brass cannon; for iron ordnance, bullets, and balls, 5oo,oo0m; for muskets and ammunition 8o,ooo;8, for plate 200,000°; for slaves 3oo,ooop; cattle and horses 200,000o ; and for goods entered from intent parts of India for Batavia 11,200,000 livres. i3,'o6,5cj 84,cl COI. ' 131,o 501. ' 6:,50oo. e 98c,cC ?.,Ci . C r 1,o3,7<ol. 1l,2r-.1. S8,75c . ' 3,,c::.,7,c .1-;l S,-ol. 13,1251. '8,75-!L,li Pl
B O 0 K IT remains to examine what profits the company have,IL .Ly . been able to make with so weak a capital. Their gainsay far as it is possible to compute them, annually amount to Z5,400,ooo livres, but their ordinary expences amount to sS,6oo,ooob, and their dividend, supposing it to be twenty-five per cent. to 3,330,000;o consequently they have only 470,oood livres remaining, to defray the ex pence of war, the loss of their magazines by fire, o0 their vessels by sea, and all that train of evils which human prudence can neither foresee nor prevent this state of the matter must appear to those who see things at a distance, to have so little probability, that we should not have ventured to warrant the truth of it, if w: had not before us governor-general Moses's correspondence with the direction. This discerning and able administrator considers the company as an exhausted body that is fur. gained by cordials: it is, as he expresses himself, a leaky vessel, that is kept from foundering only by the pump this deplorable situation, which will reduce the cri. any to the necessity of borrowing money upon their caps. tat, or of lessening their dividend still more, if any ne misfortune should happen, must have had its causes, and those too very considerable. The most obvious of all h the multitude of petty wars which have followed eat other without interruption. Reasons of THE inhabitants of the Moluccas had scarce recovered he decline from the astonishment into which they had been troth of the company by the victories gained by the Dutch, over a people vwho,they looked upon as invincible, when they grew impatient of the yoke. The company, dreading the consequences this discontents made war upon the king of Ternate, t oblige him to consent to the extirpation of the clove-rt ee ry where except in Amboyna. The islanders inBani were utterly exterminated, because they refused to be come their saves. Macassar, in order to support thii,,ltl,:5so.L Si3,-jcL ' 145,6871. 0. d z2,56zl. 0.",3 interest
interests, kept up a considerable force for a long time. B O KC The loss of Formosa brought on the ruin of the factories v of Tonkin and Siam. They were obliged to take up arms to support the exclusive trade of Sumatra. Malacca was besieged, its territory ravaged, and its navigation inter rusted pirates. Negapatan was twice attacked; Cochin was engaged in resisting the attempts of the kings of Cali cut and Travancore; Ceylon has been a scene of perpetual disturbances; which are full as frequent, and still more violent at Java, where peace can never continue long, unless the company will give a reasonable price for the commodities they require. They have engaged in bloody contests with an European nation, whose power in India increases every day, and whole character is not that of moderation. All there wars have proved ruinous, more ruinous, indeed, than might have been expected, because those who had the management of them only fought opportunities of enriching themselves. These notorious dissensions, have in many places been followed by odious oppressions; which have been practised at Japan, China, Cambodia, Arrack, on the banks of the Ganges, at Aches, Coromandel, Surat in Persia, at Baffora, Moche, and other places. The greatest part of the countries in India are filled with tyrants who prefer piracy to commerce, who acknowledge no right but that of power, and think that whatever is practicable, is just. THE profits accruing to the company from the places where their trade met with no interruption, for a long time counterbalanced the losses they sustained in others by tyranny or anarchy: but other European nations de privet them of this indemnification. This competition obliged them to buy dearer, and to sell cheaper. Their natural advantages might, perhaps, have enabled them to support this misfortune, if their rivals had not deter mined to throw the trade of India to India into the hands ps private merchants. By this expression we are to un,,P 3 derftank
B O O K understand the operations necessary to transport the merchandise of one country in Asia to another country in Asia; from China, Bengal, and Surat, for instance, to the Philippines, Persia, and Arabia. By means of this circulation, and by a multiplicity of exchanges, the Dutch obtained for nothing, or for a trifle, the rich cargoes they brought to Europe. The activity, (economy and king of the free merchants drove the company from all the sea-potts where equal favour was Shewn. Their flag was seldom seen in the roads where eight or ten English vessels appeared. THIS revolution, which so clearly pointed out to tient what steps they had to take, did not set them right with reste to a measure that was detruaive to trade. They had been accustomed to carry all their Indian and Euro. pean merchandise to Batavia, from whence it was diftri. bute among the different factories who sold it to advan. take. This custom occasioned expence and loss of time, the inconveniences of which were not perceived whi.c their profits were so enormous. When other nations car. cried on a direct trade, it became indispensably necessary to relinquish a system, not only bad in itself, but incompatible with circumstances. The dominion of uproar, however, still prevails : and it was said to be owing to :he company's apprehensions that their servants would rr.ah an ill use of any innovation, that they did not adopt a measure, the necessity of which was so fully demonstrated, THIS motive was probably nothing more than a pretext which served as a cover to private interest. The frauds o the commissaries were more than winked at. The principal ones had for the moist part been exact in their consul. They were under the direction of admirals who lifted all the factories, were invested with absolute posers in India, and, at the conclusion of every voyage, gave an account in Europe of their administration. In proportion as the government became less active, the agecnir,wvhc
who were not so strictly watched, grew more remiss. B 0 0 K They abandoned themselves to effeminacy, a habit of which is easily contracted in hot countries. The number of these persons was obliged to be increased: and no one made a capital point of correcting an abuse, which gave the people in power an opportunity of providing for their dependents. They went to Alia with a view of making a considerable fortune in a short time. Being prohibited from trading; their appointments not being sufficient to maintain them, and all honest ways of enriching them Selves being shut against them, they had recourse to mal practices. The company were cheated in all their affairs by factors who had no interest in their prosperity. These disorders grew to such a height, that it was proposed to allow a premium of five per cent upon all commodities sold or bought, which was to be divided among all the servants according to their ranks. Upon these terms, they were obliged to take an oath that their account was suit. This arrangement lasted but five years; it being found that corruption prevailed as much as ever: the pre mum and the oath were abolished; and from this period the agents ask any consideration for their trouble thai their avarice hath prompted them to. THE contagion, which at first inserted the lower factories gradually reached the principal settlements, and, at Daft, Batavia itself. So great a simplicity prevailed there at first, that the members of the government usually dressed like common sailors, and never wore decent cloaths but in their council-chamber. This modeftyvwas accompanied with so distinguished a probity, that before the year 165o, not one remarkable fortune had been made: but this unheard-of prodigy of virtue could not be of long duration. We have seen warlike republics conquer and make acquisitions for their country, and fill the pub hic treasury With the spoils of kingdoms. But we shall pcr-r see the citizens of a commercial republic amass + riches,
B 0 0 K riches, for a particular body in the state, from which they i derive neither glory, nor profit. The austerity of republican principles must of course give place to the example of the people of the east. This relaxation of manners was more sensibly perceived in the capital of the colony, where the articles of luxury that came from all parts, and the air of magnificence it was thought necessary to throw round the administration, introduced a taste for shew. This taste occasioned a corruption of manners; and this corruption of manners made all methods of getting money alike indifferent. Even the appearance of decency was so far disregarded, that a governor-general finding himself convinced of plundering the finances without mercy, made no scruple of justifying his conduct by shewing a carte blanche signed by the company. How could the conduce of the governors be remedied when their depravation could not be foreseen in the in fancy of the republic, where a purity of manners and frugality prevailed? In there settlements of the Dutch, the laws had been made for virtuous men; other manners required other laws. THESE disorders might have been repressed in their first beginnings, if they had not naturally made the same progress in Europe as in Asia. But as a river that over flows its banks collects more mud than water in its past Sage, so the vices which riches bring along with them, increase faflcr than riches themselves. The post of di rcaor, which was at first allotted to able merchants, was, at length, vested in great families, where it is held with the magistracies, by virtue of which it was first procured. '1 hesse families, engaged in political views, or in the ser. vice of administration, considered these ports, which they had ravished from the company, only in the light of a considerable income, or an easy provision for their relations ; lome of them even as opportunities of making a bad use of their credit. The business of receiving ac.,CO' l!lti,
counts, hearing debates and carrying on the most import °0 K tant transactions of the company, was left to a secretary, who, under the plausible title of advocate, became the sole manager of all the affairs. The governors, who met but twice a-year, in spring and autumn, at the arrival and departure of the fleets, forgot the habit and track of all business which requires a constant attention. They were obliged to repose an intire confidence in a person appointed by the state to make extracts from all the dispatches that arrived from India, and to draw up the form of the answers that were to be returned. This guide, who was Sometimes incapable, often bribed, and always suspicious, frequently led those he had the conducting of to the brink of a precipice where he left them to fall. THE spirit of commerce arises from interest, and into. rest always occasions disputes. Each chamber wanted to have docks, arsenals, and magazines, for the ships they were to fit out. Offices were multiplied, and frauds were encouraged by so wrong a proceeding. IT was a maxim in every department to furnish goods, as it had a right to do, in proportion to its armaments. These goods were not alike proper for the places for which they were destined, and were either not sold at all, or sold to disadvantage. WHEN circumstances called for extraordinary supplies, a spirit of puerile vanity, which is afraid of betraying its weak, ness by confessing its wants, led them to avoid borrowing money in Holland, where they would have paid only an in terest of three per cent; and to have recourse to Batavia, where money was at fix, or more frequently to Bengal, or the coast of Coromandel, where it was at nine per cent, and sometimes much higher. Abuses were multiplied on. all sides. THE states-general, whose business it was to examine, every three years, into the state of the company; to fa sissy themselves that they kept within the limits alligned,by
B 00 o by their grant; to see that justice was administered goethe persons concerned; and that the trade was carried on in a manner that was not prejudicial to the republic; might, and ought to have, put a Stop to these irregular. cities. Whatever their reasons might ho, this was never done. In consequence of this behaviour, they had the mortification to see the proprietors unite in conferring upon the last stadtholder the supreme direction of their affairs in Europe and Indian; n irhout being aware of the danger that might reflect from the influence that a pere. tuas president of the slate nmui have over a rich and pow erful body. Notwithstanding this, the dividend is at this time larger, and the price of flocks higher. A certain premature death, has drawn a veil over the plan of reform. nation that had been concerted. Necessity will oblige them to resume it, with such wise precautions, no doubt, as may prevent the abuse of that power, against which they think themselves bound to protest-ifrres THE first step must be, to convince themselves that the that rrm- n t,,. ., government of the company is too complicated even in fr ,er"- Europe. A direction vested in so many chambers, and - ; o.-hC in such a number of directors, muff be attended with C" * 'infinite inconveniences. It is impossible that the fame spirit should operate every where alike, and that the transactions should be carried on without receiving a tincture from the opposite view's of the persons who contra them in different places, without concert or connexion. Unity of design, so necessary in the fine arts, is equally advantageous in business. It will be in vain objected that it is the interest of all democratical states to divide their-earth, and to make the estates of the citizens as equal as pof.b!e. This maxim in itself true, is not applicable to a republic that has no territorial maintains irfe!f merely h its commerce. It 'nil! therefore he expedite! t that ev-cr article bought or sold fh;lidcl fall under one general inspection, and be brought into one port. Tlhe,a.v:!:,-,
savings that would he made, would be the least advan- B O O K,II. take the company would receive from this alteration. FRoM this place, which would be the center of intelligence from all quarters, deputations might be sent to in quire into, and correct abuses in the remotest parts of Asia. The conduce of the Dutch towards the Indian prince:, from whom they have forcibly extorted an exclusive com mere, will be one of the first objeas oftheirconfideration. They have, for a long time, behaved towards them with an insolent pride; have attempted to learn the secrets of their government; and to engage them in quarrels with their neighbours; they have fomented divisions among their flije&i, and hewn a distil mixed with animosity; they have obliged thin to make sacrifices which they ne ver promised; and deprived them of advantages secured to them by the terms of capitulation. All these intolerable ac of tyranny, occasions frequent disturbances, which sometimes ens in hostilities. To restore harmony, which is a task that grows more nceefl'ary and more difficult every day, agents should be appointed, who, to a spirit of moderation, join a knowledge of the interests, customs language, religion, and manners of these nations. At present, perhaps, the company may be unprovided with persons of this character: But it concerns them to procure them. Perhaps too they might find them among the superintendents of their factories, which they have every reason to induce then to abandon. THE discerning part of the merchants of all nations unanimously agree, that the Dutch settlements in India are too numerous: and that by lessening their number, they would greatly reduce their expences, without confining their commerce. The company cannot possibly be ignorant of what is so generally known. One would he apt to think, they were induced to conti nre the fncrriej that were chargeable to then, to pre vent a filf!icin t!tt hey were not in a ci!diiilt to plantains Ihcmu. 13B t iii rc.:; Ci.t'!lltl .d litltld!d f','.ly,2 thc:l
B O K them no longer. All that deserves their attention, is to makes due distinction between what it is convenient to part with, and advantageous to retain. They have before them a series of facts and experiments, which must preventing mistake in an arrangement of such importance. IN the subordinate factories, which they may think pro per to continue for the advantage of trade, they will de molli all useless fortifications; they will dissolve the councils established out of ostentation rather than necessity and they will proportion the number of their ser. wants to the extent of their business. Let the company call to mind those happy times, when two or three sac tors chosen with judgment, sent out cargoes infinitely more considerable than any they have received since; when they raised amazing profits upon their goods, which, in process of time, have been diverted into the pockets of their numerous agents; and then they will not hesitate a moment to return to their old maxims, and to prefer a simplicity which made them rich, to an empty parade that ruins them. These disorders were owing to their own misconduct The Europeans, fettled in their colonies, lived in disgrace if they were not engaged in their service. Every expedient was tried to extricate themselves from a state of humiliation which it was impossible to endure. The-superintendents suffered themselves to be corrupted; and employments were multiplied without necessity and with out measure. Let them discountenance a prejudice, which, in whatever light it is viewed, is unjust and per vicious; and the-reformation we are pointing out will easily be accomplished. IT will be attended with greater difficulties in the large colonies. The company's agents there are a more nu serous, reputable, end in proportion, a more opulent body, and consequently left disposed to submit to any re mutations. It is, however, necessary to reduce them to order; since the abuses they have either introduced, o:,Isnked
winked at, must sooner or later inevitably bring on the B 0 0 1 ruin of the interests, over which they preside. The miss management that prevails in the work-shops, magazines, docks, and arsenals at Batavia, and other large settlements, is scarcely to be paralleled. The mal-practices of the superintendents and subordinate officers are so notorious, that according to the most favourable representations, at least two thirds might be fared if the buildings, works and repairs were executed by contrast. THESE arrangements would lead to others still more con miserable. At their first rise, the company established fixed and precise rules, which were not to be departed from on any pretence, or on any occasion whatsoever. Their servants were mere machines, the smallest move ments of which were wound up before-hand. They judged this absolute and universal direction necessary to correct what was amiss in the choice of their agents, who were most of them drawn out of obscurity, and had not the ad vantage of that careful education which would have en large their ideas. The company themselves did not sussex the least variation in their own conduct, and to this in variable uniformity, they attributed the success of their enterprises. The frequent misfortunes, which this softens occasioned, did not prevail with them to lay it aside; and they always adhered obstinately to their first plan. In this they were not guided by reflexion; but followed a blind impulse. At this time of the day, when they can no longer commit errors with impunity, it is necessary they should make some alterations. Tired of maintaining a disadvantageous struggle with the free traders of other nations, they should resolve to leave the commerce from one part of India to another, to private persons. This happy innovation would make their colonies richer and more powerful. They themselves would reap more ad. vantage from the customs that would be paid in their factories than they receive from the aunt efforts of an inspiring
B 0 K firing commerce. Every thing, even the ships that ard,- too old to he sent to Europe, would turn to account the navigators in these settlements would be glad to make use of them in those calm seas. Perhaps the company might carry the plan of reformation frill further. Would it not be a proper scheme to resign the trade of linens exported to Europe to individuals Those who are acquainted with their operations, kr.s v very weel that they gain no more than thirty per cent. by this article, which is always sold to them at a dear rate by their agents, though it is bought with their own money. Viae dedua from this profit, the averages, the interest of adv:-nce-moncy, the salaries of the commissaries, and the hazards at sea, the remainder will be very trifling, Would not twenty per cent. freight, which the free mer chants would rcdiiy give, be of greater advantage to the company ? TEi£Y would then be released from the cares and re faints of their present commerce, and the port of Batavia would be open to all nations; who would load their snips with the merchandise of Europe; with thegoods bought by the company, at a low price, of the Indian princes, with whom they carry on an exclusive trade; and with the spices destined for all the sea-ports in Aia, where the con function would necessarily increase. The sacrifice they would make to the general frccdorm of trade, would be amply rewarded by the certain, easy and advantageous sale of spices ir. Europe. The progress of corruption would be stopt 1by adhering to to plain a rule of administration; and order voulu be e:, abashed on'fuch firm grounds, that it l-ouLd require bu: little care to prefer it.,THE nczrlrsy or i-:i;ng the internal arrangements we Propose, is io much l C: more urgent, as the company are in i:nmincnt d ngcr of tilting the constituent part of their .ac.sr, and of ha.;irg the spice trade taken from them.,IT
IT is confidently reported that the clove-tree is no longer B O 0 K to be found any where but at Amboyna; but this is a mistake. Before the Dutch got possession of the Moluccas, properly so called, all the islands if this archipelago were covered with these trees: they ordered them to be pulled up, and continue to send two sloops, each having twelve soldiers on board, with orders to destroy it wherever it wade its appearance. But not to lay any stress here upon the baseness of such avarice, which counteracts the bounty of nature, these extirpate, with all their industry, can only execute their commission upon the coast. Were three hundred men to be continually employed in traversing the forests, they would not be able fully to answer the intention of their employers, The earth rebels against this devastation, and seems to resist the wickedness of men. The clove springs up under the instrument that destroys i;, and mocks the unfeeling industry of the Dutch, who wish to see nothing grow but for thnciielves. The English, that are fettled at Sumatra have, for some years, font cloves to their mother country, which they obtain from the: inhabitants of Bally, who gather them in places where, it is pretended, they no longer exist. IT is equally a mistake that the nutmeg-tree is confined to Banda: it grows in New Guinea, and in the islands that lie near that const. The Malays, the only people who held any correspondence with these fierce nations, have carried the produce of this tree to Batavia; the precautions that have been taken to conceal the knowledge of this sac have only served the more fully to confirm it; and its truth is supported by so many attestations, that it is impossible to entertain a doubt of it. If, however, the certainty of these fas should be called in question; if either habit or tradition should make it be lived that the Spaniards fettled at the Philippines could not, with great advantage to themselves, easily procure :he clove and nutmeg-tree; it must on all hands be ac-knowledge,
B 0 oK knowledged, that, in these remote seas, an event has rc ' happened, which merits a serious attention. The straits Lombok has been discovered by the English: in con sequence of this discovery, they have penetrated a- far as Samara, which lies between New Guinea and the Molucca Islands. This island is found to be in the same latitude, to have the same soil, and the same climate, with those that produce the spices, and they have formed a settlement upon it. Is it credible that this alive and persevering nation will lose fight of the only object they can propose to themselves from this situation ? or that they will be discouraged by the obstacles they may meet with ? Could we suppose the company so little acquainted with the character of their rivals, their situation would no longer be doubtful; it would be desperate. SETTING aside this contest between trading interests, the Dutch have reason to be apprehensive of one of a flower and more destructive kind. All circumstances, particularly their manner of conducing their forces both by sea and land, conspire to invite their enemies to attack them. THE company have a fleet of about a hundred ships, from fix hundred to a thousand tons burthen. Twenty-eight or thirty are annually sent out from Europe, and a smaller number returns. Those that are not in a condition to return, make voyages in India, where the seas, except those in the neighbourhood of Japan, are so calm, that weaker vessels may fail in them with safety. In times of profound peace the ships fail separately, but on their return they a )sways form two fleets at the cape, which come by the Arcades, where two ships belonging to the Republic wait to convoy them to Holland. In time of war this detour was contrived to avoid the enemy's privateers; and they continue to make use of it in time of peace, to prevent contraband trade. It was found difficult to pro cure tailors who would encounter the cold blasts of the :ornh, after being used to hot climates; but this difficulties
,as surmounted, by offering two months pay extraordi- B o0 K nary. This custom has been continued even when con, tray winds or storms drove the fleets into the channel. The chamber amsterdam attempted but once to suppress this custom; but they were in danger of being burnt by the populace, who, like the rest of the nation, disapproved of the arbitrary proceedings of the company, and lamented their exclusive privilege. The company's navy is com handed by officers who were originally sailors or cabin boys; they are qualified for pilots, and for working a ship, but they have not the least notion of naval evolutions, not to mention that from the defects of their education they can have no idea of the love of glory, or of inculcating it into that class of men who are under their command. THEIR contra is still worse with regard to their land forces. Soldiers who have deserted from every nation in Europe may, indeed, be expected not to want courage; but their provision and clothing is To bad, and they are so much harassed, that they are averse from the service. The officers, who, for the most part, originally belonged to some low profession, in which they got a sum sufficient to purchase their posts, are incapable of infusing into them a military spirit. The contempt in which a people purely commercial hold those whose situation dooms them to an involuntary poverty, together t with theiravcrfion from var, contributes greatly to degrade and dispirit them. To these several causes of their inactivity, weakness, and want of discipline, may be subjoined another, which is equally ap pliable both to the land and tea service. THERE is not, perhaps, in the most slavish governments so dishonourable and iniquitous a mode of raising seamen and soldiers, as that which has, for a long time, been practised by the company. Thei agents, called by the people renders dames (kidnappers) a ho are always busy in the territories, and even beyond the boundaries of the republick, make it their employment to intice credulous Vol I. Q r.
B O O K men to embark for India, in hopes of making a confide, I , able fortune in a short time. Those who are allured by,the bait are enrolled, and receive two months pay, which is always given to their betrayer. They enter into an en. engagement of three hundred livres , which is the profit of the person that enlists them, who is obliged by this agree. ment to furnish them with some clothes worth about a tenth part of that sum. The debt is secured by one of the company's bills, but it is never paid unless the debtor lives long enough to discharge it out of his pay. A company which supports itself, notwithstanding this contempt for the military order and with soldiers so cor. rusted, should enable us to determine the progress which the arts of negotiation have made in these latter ages. It has ever been necessary to supply the want of strength by treaties, by patience, by moderation, and by artifice; but republicans should be well informed, that such a Late can only be a precarious one, and that political measures hew well soever they may be combined, are not always able to refit the torrent of violence and the necessity circumstances. The company should have troops com. pcf;d of citizens, which is by no means impossible. II can never inspire that public spirit, that enthusiasm foa glory which it has not itself. In this refpea it is tht same with a company as with a government, which ihoul( form its .troops upon those principles only that are th cafes of its own constitution. Oeconomy, and the desire g-in are the principles of administration adopted by th company. These are the motives that mould attach th soldier to their service. As he is engaged in commerce: expeditions, he should be assured of a reward proportion to the means he bath exerted in forwarding their success and his pay should be made out to him in flock. Ths personal interests, far from weakening the general inter tions, hill only serve to strengthen them,' 31. is. 6d.
IF these reflections Should not prevail upon the company B O 0 K to alter this important part of their administration, let them at least be awakened by the prospect of the dangers that threaten them. If they were attacked in India, they would be deprived of their settlements there in less time than it has taken them to wrest them from the Portuguese. Their heft towns have neither covert ways, nor glacis, nor outworks, and would not hold out a week. They are never stocked with provisions, though they are always filled with warlike fores. There are not more than ten thousand men, whites and blacks, to defend them, and there should be double that number. These disadvantages would not be compensated by the resources of the navy. The company has not a single vessel of the line in all its ports, and it would be impossible to arm the merchantmen as flips of war. The largest of those that return to Europe have not one hundred men ; and if the men dispersed in all the ships that fail to India were collected, there would not be a sufficient number to form one tingle fill's crew. Any man accustomed to calculate probable events would not scruple to say, that the power of the Dutch might be annihilated in Asa, before the state could come to the assistance of the company. The only basis upon which this apparently gigantic Colossus is fixed, is the Molucca islands. Six men of war and fifteen hundred land forces would be more than sufficient to secure the conquest of them, which might be effected either by the French or the English. IF the French should form this enterprize, their squadron might fail from the isle of France, and bear down upon Ternate, where a commencement of hostilities would give the first intelligence of its arrival in those seas. A fort without outworks, and which might be battered from the Sips, would not make much resistance. Amboyna which formerly hr.d a rampart, a bad ditch, and four finally bastions, has been so frequently demolished by earth-,Q- quakes,
B 0 0 K quakes, that it cannot be in a condition to put a flop to,an enterprising enemy for two days. Banda has its peu. liar difficulties. There is no bottom round there islands, and there are such violent currents, that if two or three channels which lead up to it were miffed, the vessels would be unavoidably carried away under the wind. But this might be easily prevented by the pilots of Amboina, There is nothing more to attack than a wall without ditch, or a covert way, defended only by four bastions in bad condition. A small fort erected upon an eminence that commands the place, could not defend itself four and twenty hours. ALL those who have seen the Moluccas, and examined them attentively, agree, that they would not hold out one month against the forces we have mentioned. If, as it is probable, the garrisons, which are not half so numerous as they ought to be, and exasperated with the manner in which they are treated, should refine to fight, or should make but a feeble resistance, the conquest would be more rapid. To secure it as firmly as it deserves, it would I necessary to take possession of Batavia ; a circumstance not so difficult as it may seem to be. The squadron, with the soldiers that were not left in garrison, and as many of the Dutch troops as should have joined the conqueror, with a timely reinforcement of eight or nine hundred men, would infallibly accomplish this enterprize, of which se shall be convinced if we have a just idea of Batavia. THE most common obstacle to the besieging of maritime places is the difficulty of landing; which is by no means the case at the capital of Java. Governor-general Imnho5, who was apprized of this circumstance, attempted in vain to remedy it, by constructing a fort at the mouth oftlh river which embellishes the city. If these works, erettd at a great expence by persons of no still, had even bec brought to perfection, they would not have improved the situation much: the landing, which would have been,madt
made impracticable in one place, would always have been B O O K open by means several rivers that empty themselves into , 1 the road, and are all navigable by sloops. THE troops being once formed upon land would find nothing but an immense city without a covert way, defended by a rampart, and by some low and irregular bastions, surrounded by a ditch formed on one side by a river, and on the other by some marly canals, which might easily be filled with running water; it was formerly de fenced by a citadel; but Ilshoff, by building between the city and this fortress, some extensive and high barracks, intercepted the communication. He was afterwards told of this blunder, and he could think of no better way of ratifying it, than to demolish two half bastions of the fortress, looking towards the city. Since that time they have been joined to each other. BUT if the fortifications were as persia as they are bad; if the artillery, which is immense were directed by men of judgment; if even Color or Vauban were substituted in the room of those unskilful persons, who have now the charge of the works, the place could not hold out. It would require at least four thousand men to de send it, and there are felon more than fix hundred. Neither indeed are the Dutch so ignorant as to place their confidence in so feeble a garrison: they depend much more upon the inundations they are able to raise by open ing the sluices that confine several small rivers. They imagine that these inundations would retard the opera tions of the siege, and would destroy the besiegers by the distempers they would occasion. With a little more re flexion they would discover, that the place must surrender before these draining had taken effet. THE plan of conquest that France might form, would equally suit tile interests of Great Britain, with this difference that the English would in the first place make themselves mailers of the Cape of Good Hope, an excel-,'Q3 lent
B 0 0 K lent harbour, which they are in want of for their voyage ito the Indies. Ths: Cape may be attacked in two places: the first is Table Bay, at the extremity of which the fort is situated. It is an open road, where the violence of the sea is broken only bv a fall island, and is so bad il the months of June, July, August .nd September, that in lIzz twenty. five Ships were lost there, and seven in 1736. Though all navigators prefer it in the other seasons of the ya;ir, on account of the accommodations they find there, it is pro. able that a landing would not be attempted herr, bc cause the two sides ot the harbour are coveted with bat. series, which it would be hazardous, and, perhaps, impossible to silence. False Bay would undoubtedly be prefer. able, which though at thirty leagues distance from the former by fca, is yet no more than three leagues from the capital on the land side. The landing woultl be es. seated quietly in this place of security, and the troops would gain, without opposition an eminence which corn hands the fort. As this citadel in other respects confined is only defended by a garrison of three or four hundred men at most, it might be reduced in less than a day's time by a few bombs. The inhabitants of the colony dispersed throughout an immense spare, and separated from each other by deserts, would not have time to come to its relief. Perhaps, they would not if it were even ir their power. We may be allowed to suppose that the op pression under which they groan, may make them ifs for a change of government. The loss of the Cape would perhaps, render it impossible for the company to convey ro India the succours ncceflhry for the defence of their set t!cm.nts, or would at Ic-it make those succours lets certain and more expensive. The English, on the contrary, would draw great conveniences, even immense advantages for this conquest, if the spirit of monopoly, which reason an humanity oil al-a ys oppose, could once be laid aside.,Ts
TqIe Britilhcolonies of North America have iron, wood, B 0 0 K rice, cigar, and a hundred other articles of consumption, which the Cape is entirely without. They might be con vexed thither, and wines and brandy received exchange. The soil and climate of this part of Africa arc so favour able to the cultivation of the vine, that an immense ex tent of land may be allotted to it. If a regular consumption could be established, we should loon see a space of two hundred leagues covered with vineyards. Toleration and the mildness of the government; the prospect of a comfortable situation would attract cultivators from all quarters. They would Toon be in a condition to furnish wholesome and agreeable liquors in plenty to Britifl America, and, perhaps, the metropolis itself might one day supply itself with wine from the same plentiful source, which it unwillingly purchase from France. IF the republic of Holland should not consider as imaginary the dangers to which our love of the general good of nations makes us apprehend her commerce may be exposed, she ought to omit no precaution to prevent them. She muff constantly keep in mind, that the com any, from its beginning to the year 17zz, has received about fifteen hundred ships, the freight of which amounted in India to 703,366,oo00 livres , and has been sold in Europe for double that umn: that by sending 6,ooo,ooo of livres b into India, annual returns of 4o0,oo0,oo c are pro cured, only the fifth part of which at most is consumed in the united provinces; that at the renewal of each grant, the company has given considerable films to the republic; that it has assisted the state whenever it has flood in need of assistance; that it has railed a multitude of private fortunes, which have prodigiously increased the riches of the nation; in short, that it has doubled, per laps, trebled the activity of the metropolis, by furnishing it with frequent opportunities of forming great enterprizes,' jo,772 :z6: . Is. b z6z,;col. ' l,75oso l.,Q 41 THF
B o0 K THE company customarily pay to the slate duties of,import for all the merchandise they receive from India. By a regulation of the loth of July 1677, they are an. nual!y to pay thirty-two thousand livres a il lieu of the duties of export. They obtained the renewal cf their grant in 1743, with this formal stipulation, that the re public should receive three per cent. upon the dividend. It it thought, however, that the government have a right to derive greater a I\antsgcms from an exclusive privilege such importance. IT has always been acknowledged by all nations what ever the form of their government might he, that the estates acquired in any country light to contribute to the expence; of government. The season of this grand maxim is evident to all capacities. Private fortunes are so essentially connected with the prosperity of the public, that when that is injured the other muff stiffer of course. Th's, when the subject of a slate serve it with their fortunes or their persons, they do nothing hut defend their own pri. late interest. The prosperity of the country is the prof purity of each citizen. This maxim, which is true in all governments, has a particular propriety when applied to free societies. FURTHER than this, there are bodies of men, whose in terest, either from the nature of those bodies, their extensive relations, or the variety of their views, are more essentially connected with the common interest. Of this kind is the India company in Holland. The enemies to its trade arc enemies to the republic; and its fcc sty is established on the same basis with that of the ftatc.,IN the opinion of men of the best discernment, the na national debt has fenlilhly weakened the United Provinces, and affected the gi neal welfare, by gradually increasing tie lead of taxes. The republic can never be restored to its original splendor, till it is released from the enor-,'* I,41.~moS,moms
rous burthen under which it groans; and this relief B o0 K can only be expected from a company, which it has al ways encouraged, protected and favoured. To place this powerful body in a situation to render the highest services to the country, it will by no means be necessary to reduce the profits of the proprietors ; it will be sufficient to bring it hack to those principles of oeconomy and simplicity, and to that plan of administration, which laid the foundation of its early prosperity. A REFORMATION so necessary will admit of no delay. Pormergnd This confidence is due to a government, which has always the tilth, endeavoured to maintain a great number of citizens within ni'l1 i'r,I·rvrnt de itself, and to employ only a frnall part of them in its gnleracy. distant settlements. It is at the expence of all Europe that holland has continually increased the number of its subjects: the liberty of conscience allowed there, and the niileratioll of the laws, have attracted all persons Ciho were oppressed in a hundred different pla'cs by a spirit of toleration and the severity of government. The relulllir has procured means of subsistence to all persons xlii. have been willing to fettle and work among them: n Shave seen at different times the inhabitants of a country ruined by war, seeking security and employ ment in holland. AcRIrcLTUeRI could never lie a considerable ol)ec't in Holland, altolioigl thai hall is cultivated to as great a de glee of perfection as possible. lut tile healing fishery supplies the place fl agriculture. This is a new method of insistence, a school for seamen. lorn ni lp tie waters, they plough the fca, from wvlhece they get their foro: they grow familiar with forms, and learn without refine, to overcome dangers. TnE traffic of transport which the republic continually carries on from one Fl european ;nalinn l to another, is also a kind of navigation. hlirlh, vitholil dcrFloing men, PJlplics them with fulililltlcncc hy labourer
B31 O K Is short, navigation which depopulates a part of,L Europe, peoples Holland. It is as it were the produce of,the country. Her ships are her landed estates, which file makes the mor of, at the expence of the stranger. THE elegant accommodations of life are known in Holland without being an object of pursuit: the refine. ments of behaviour are adopted with moderation; those of caprice they are unacquainted with. A spirit of order frugality, and even avarice prevails throughout the na. tion, and has been carefully kept up by the government THE colonies are conducted by the same spirit. The are peopled in general with the feud of the nation or wit) foreigners; but rigid laws, an equitable administration an easy subsidence, and useful labour soon infuse moral into there men who were exiled from Europe, because the, wanted them the same design of preserving the population prevail in the military system; the republic entertains a grca number of foreign troops in Europe; and some in th colonies. THE sailors in Holland are well paid; and foreign seamen are corilar.tly employed either on board thei trading vessels, or their men of war. FOR the purposes of commerce, it is necessary that ha mony should be preferred at home, and peace abroad No people, except the Swiss, take more mole care 1 keep on good terms with their neighbours; and ths endeavour, still more than the Swiss, to encourage pea among them. The republic prccrvcs unanimity ani her citizens, by very cxcel!lnt laws, which prescribe t duties of every station, by a speedy and disinterested administration of justice, and by regulations admiral well azdptcd to tie merchants. She has filcwn the ol Sion ile entertains of the necessity of good faith by 1 chbfrvancc of treaties, and has endeavoured to inculc; the same principle among individu-ls.
IN a word, we know of no nation in Europe that bas B 0 0 1z,II. considered better what its united advantages of situation, strength, and population allows it to undertake, or that has known and followed more effectually the means of increasing both its population and its strength. We know of none, which having such objects as an extensive commerce and liberty, mutually attracting and supporting each other, hath cutodusqed itself in a better lanner for the preservation of both the one and the other. BuT how are there manners already changed and de generated shorn thepurityofa republican government. Per. final iltecrefs, which become laudable by being combined, are now totally selfish, and corruption is become general. There is no patriotism in that country, which above all others in the universe: should inspire its inhabitants with firmer attachments. Int reality, what patriotic sentiments might we not expel from a nation that can say to itself; this land which I inhabit, has been fertilized by me; 'tis I who have embellished, who have created it, This threat enim sea, which deluged all our plains, rages in vain again the powerful dikes I have ol)pofcd to its fury. I have purified this air which lagnanit waters had filled with fatal exhalations. It is by my means that superb cities stand now upon tile slime rude mud, over which the ocr;in once rolled its waves. The ports 1 Shave cilflructld, the canals I have digged, receive tile irodiltion;s of thu thole universe which 1 dili)ciife at pleasure. Tlhc inheritances of other nations are only poflinf;ols which m til ii,iites with man; that which 1 shall leave to my Ipofclritiy, 1 I hire ravished from the elements which c zl spit li a gainst sly territory, and am now the master of it. It is hdlc that I have cltalblinced a new arranlggecnnt of nature, a nev fyAiec of manner. I lave docile every thing where there vas nothing. Air, land,. ;ovclrnmitelnr, liberty, all there are my works. I joy t! c glory of the pit, and s hell I fall a look into ftiicr;l,, I lee 'i with f.:tiil? tion that my,,ales
pB 0 0 K ashes will rest quietly on the same spot where my forefathers saw the breaking of storms. WHAT motives these for toiling one's country! Yet there is no longer any public spirit in Holland: it is a while, the parts of which have no other relation among themselves than the spot they occupy. Meanness, base ness and dishonesty characterize now the conquerors of Phi lip. They make a traffic of their oath, as of their pro. visions; and they will soon become the refuse of the uni verse, which they had astonished by their industry and by their virtues. YE unworthy members of the government, under which ye live, shudder at leafy at the dangers that surround you! Those who have slavish fouls are not far removed from slavery. The sacred fire of liberty can only be kept ip by chaste hands. Ye are not now in that slate of anarchy, when the sovereigns of Europe all equally opposed by the nobles in their respective states, could not carry on their designs either with secrecy, unanimity or rapidity; when the equilibrium of the several powers was merely the es. fed of their mutual debility. At present, power grown moro independent, confirms those advantages to a monarchy which a free slate can never enjoy. What have republicans tr oppose to a superiority so formidable ? Their virtues; bh you have lost them. The corruption of your manners and of your magistrates, encourages every where the de tractors of liberty; and, perhaps, your fatal example i in means of imposing a heavier yoke on other nation, What answer would you wish us to make to those me r ho, either from the prejudice of education or the wan cf honesty, are perpetually telling us; this is the govern ernst which you extol so much in your writings; there sr the happy confieqliinccs of that i'lltlm of liberty yol howl to dear. To thole vices which you have laid to the charge of d tfeo'.ln, they have added another, which filrpaffe tihe.i-li, the inability to stop the progress of evil. Whi,anllfw
rlnfier can be given to so severe a satire on demo B O O K crack? I INDUSTRIOUS Hollanders! ye who were formerly so renowned for your bravery, and are at present so distinguished by your wealth, tremble at the idea of being again reduced to crouch under the rod you have broken, and which fill hangs over you. Would you learn how the spirit of commerce may be united and preserved with the spirit of liberty ? View from your shores that island, and those people, whom nature presents to you as a model for your imitation. Keep your eyes constantly fixed upon England: if the alliance of that kingdom has been your support, its conduct will now serve you as an instructor, and its example as a guide book IlI,
t 2j8 J B 0 0 K III. Settlements, Trade, and Conqucjli of the English in,the Half Indies. B OO.K. W1 E know nothing either of the period in which the , W - . British isles were peopled, nor of the origin of :,,,hni their first inhabitants. All we can learn from the most f -i ¢lhc authentic historical record; is, that they were success l.a'inh fivcly viftcd iv the l'hlcnici.liln, the Carthaginian, ant Contr rxc-the Gauls. Tale traders of there nation used to go there to exchange earthen vli'cls, Sit, all kinds of iron, and copper iinftnmcilt, for skins, slaves, hounds, and bull dogs, and especially for tin. Their profits were just hat they pleased in their dealings with savage equally ignorant of the value of what they sold or light. A tons speculation would Head us to imagine, that islanders have been the fist civilized people among ni1ll. kind. Nothing ipnts a stop to the excursions of people living on a continent: icy may get thir livelihood and avoid fighting at the same time. In ifl.lds, war, aln\ the inconvenience; of a too limited fir. idly, find fioo::cr make law's and quality s' erfl'.irv. Int \x!atcvci i; Isle rc;:!ri. of it, we W'nlcr.tal fT': tile Innnncler, .'1d the govcl;i melt of il!lalneis t;'iCrl il.ttr ;len 111moc ilmplcrectly tian others. All the tr,;diliolis rcli)Cti;g britain, particular., y co:' l:.m this nffrrti,:'. T' !; i 1;o R .in tIinrc wa; nt t sicily durable, and too ce.trl di;iplt:d, t,, : ,pr;tv il any cnitldcrable d(e--:c tl.C ic il :tit 'i ! I-i lions. L'.ve'i tile Snail tn ill ics i.:-t ',i:lbandy Loud the :slit haud made during ths, pl;,.l,,5i.i
Was lost as soon as that haughty power had determined B O 0o K to abandon this conquest. The spirit of slavery which the 111 southern inhabitants of Britain had contracted, deprived them of the courage necessary to resist at first the over flowing of their neighbours the Picts, who had saved themselves from the yoke by flying towards the north of the sand, and prevented them afterwards from being able to oppose the more dcflirtlive, more obstinate and more numerous expeditions of plunderers that poured in swarms from the more northern parts of Europe, ALL nations were affected with this dreadful plague, the most destructive, perhaps, that ever was recorded in tile annals of the world; bustle calamities which Great Britain particularly experienced are inexpressible. Every year, several times even in a year, her countries were ra waged. her houses brunt, her women ravished, her temples stripped, her inhabitants massacred, put to torture, or enslaved. All these misfortunes friccecded each other with inconceivable rapidity. When the country was so far destroyed that nothing remained, to glut the avidity of these barbarians, they seized on the land itself. One nation succeeded another. One troop intervening, ex pellet or exterminated til mrcir that was alrcarly established; and this friccellion of revolutions, constantly kept up in dulencc, miftrirlt and nilfcry. In these dispiriting times, the Britons had scarce any commercial connection with the continent. Exchanges were even so rare amongst them, that it was necessary to have witnesses for the sale of the least trifle. SUCH was the situation of affairs, when William the Conqueror subdued Great Britain a little while after the middle of the eleventh century. I-is followers came from countries rather more civilized, more alive, and more industrious, than of th they came to fettle in. Such a communication n ought naturally to have rectified, and en large the ideas of the conquered people. The introduction
B 0. K tion of the feudal government occasioned so speedy andes complete a revolution in matters of property, that every thing was thrown into confusion. THE minds of men were scarcely fettled, and the con. queries, and the conquered had but just begun to consider themselves as one and the same people, when the abilities and strength of the nation were engaged in supporting the pretensions of their sovereigns to the crown of France. In there obstinate wars, the English displayed military ta lents and courage; but after several great efforts, and con. fidcrable success, they were forced back into their island, here domestic troubles exposed them to fresh calamities. DURING these different periods, the whole commerce was in the hands of the Jews and the bankers of Loan bardy, who were alternately favoured and robbed, con littered as useful persons, and condemned to death, ex pellet and recalled: there tumults were increased by the audacity of the pirates, who being sometimes proceed by the government, wth which they shared their spoils, attacked all filius indiscriminately, and frequently sank their crew-s. The interest of money was at fifty per cent. Leather, furs, butter, lead, and tin were the only things exported from England, at a very moderate rate, and thirty thousand sacks of wool, which returned annually a more considerable turn. As the English were then to tally unacquainted with the 'art of dying these wool, and manufacturing them with elegance, the greatest part of this money returned. To remedy this inconvenience, foreign manufacturers were invited, and the people were prohibited from wearing any cheats that were not oi home manufacture. At the same time, the exportation of manufactured wool, and wrought iron was forbidden; ta o laws altogether worthy of the age in which they were instituted. HENRY the Seventh permitted the barons to dispose of their lands, and the common people to buy thein.,'lhii
This regulation diminished the inequality which subsisted B o O K before between the fortunes of the lords and their vassals; , l it made the latter more independant, and inspired the people with the desire of enriching themselves, and the expectation of enjoying their riches. There were many obstacles to this wins, and this hope; some of which were removed. The company of merchants established at London was prevented from exacting in future the sum of one thousand five hundred and seventy-five livres from each of' the other merchants in the kingdom, desirous of trading at the great fairs of the low countries. In order to fix a greater number of people to the labours of husbandry, it was enacted, that no person should put his son or daughter out to any kind of apprenticeship, without being possessed of a rent of twenty-two livres tel fols b in landed property; this absurd law was afterwards mitigated. UNFORTUNATELY that law which regulated the price of all forts of provisions, of woollen, of workmen's wages, of stuffs, and of cloathing, was maintained in its full force. Other impediments even were thrown in the way of commerce, on account of some pernicious combinations that were set on foot. The loan of money at interest, and the profits of exchange were strictly prohibited, as usurious in themselves, or calculated to introduce usury. The ex potation of money in any kind of form was forbidden; and, in order to prevent foreign merchants from carrying it clandestinely away, they were compelled to change into English merchandize the intire produce of the goods they had brought into England. The exportation of horses was likewise prohibited; and the people were not sufficiently enlightened to discover that such a prohibition would ne necessarily cause the propagation and improvement of the species to be neglected. At length corporations were established in all the towns; that is to say, the state authorized all persons of the same profession, to make such regulations as they should think necessary for their exclusively. PiS. id. Sear pros. VOL. I. R prefer
0 K preservation and fucecfs. Tie nation is fill opprefc!,IIL.,with a regulation so contrary to general industry, and which reduces every thing to a kind of monopoly. Upon considering such a number of strange laws, e: might be induced to think that Henry was either india;. rent about the prosperity of his kingdom, or that he w, totally deficient in understanding. Nevertheless, it is er. tain that this prince, imiligre his extreme avarice, often lent considerable firms of money, without interest, i, merchants who had not property sufficient to carry join th: schemes they had planned: besides, the wisdom of hi. g,. government is so well confirmed, that he is accounted with reason, one of the greatest monarchs that ever filled th: throne of England. But, notwithstanding all the effort of genius, it requires a succession of several ages before any science can be reduced to finite principles. It is the same thing with theories as with machines, which are always very complicated at first, and which are only freed in the course of time by observation ;aid experience, fio those useless s heels which only served to increase tht: frictions. THE knowledge of the succeeding reigns was not macer more extensive nixon thole matters we are treating ci. Some Flemings, settled in England, were the only good workmen in there branches; they were almost always i. suited and oppressed by the English workmen, who m'cr jealous without emulation : they complained that all ti customers went to the Flemings, and they railed the pri;: of corn. The government adopted these popular Practices and sorbad all strangers to employ more than ti workmen in their shops. The merchants were not beat: treated than the workmen, and those even who were ri naturalized, were obliged to pay the same duties as .he alien Ignorance was lo general, that the cultivation of the k, lands was neglected, in order to convert them into pail: lands, even at the time that the number of Sheep, whi;:
might be in one flock, was confined by the laws to two B 0 0 thousand. All mercantile correspondences were confined . in the low countries. The inhabitants of these provinces bought the English merchandize, and circulated them through the different parts of Europe, It is probable that the nation would not have made any considerable figure for a long time, without a concurrence of favourable circumstances THE Duke of Alva's cruelties drove several able manu features into England, who carried the art of the, fine Flemish manufactures to London. The persecutions which the protestants suffered in France supplied England with workmen of all kinds. Elizabeth, impatient of contra diction, but knowing and desirous of doing what was right, at once despotic and popular, with the advantages sofa good understanding, and of being properly obeyed, availed herself of the fermentation of people's minds, as prevalent throughout all her dominions as through the rest of Europe; and while this fermentation produced amongst other people nothing but theological disputes, and civil or foreign wars, in England it gave rise to a lively emulation for commerce, and for the improvement of navigation. THE English learned to build their ships at home, which they bought before of the merchants of Lubec and Ham bourg. They were soon the only persons who traded to Muscovy by the way of Archangel just discovered; and they presently came in competition with the Asiatic towns in Germany, and in the north. They began to trade with Turky. Several of their navigators attempted, though in vain, to discover a passage to India by the northern seas. At length Drake, Stephens, Cavendish, and some others, reached that place, tome by the south sea, and others by doubling the Cape of Good Hope. THE success of there voyages was sufficient to determine Sirs rvy- the most able merchants of London to establish a company a's of these ng lh t R i in heiid.
3 0 O K in the year 16ro; which obtained an exclusive privileges trading to the East Indies. The at which granted this privilege, fixed it for fifteen years: it declared, thai if it Should prove injurious to the flat, it Ihlodlll I1, annulled, and the company suppressed, by giving t, years previous; notice to its ncmlberl. THIS claitil of reserve was owing to th displeasure I1c commons had lately shewn on account of a grant, ti novelty of which might possibly offend them. The (qui had returned to the holfce, anlr hold spoken on this occa sion in a manner worthy to Icrve as a Lesson to all fou. reigns. " Gentleman," said (he to the members of the hol!i commissioned to return her thanks, " I am extremely fci,fible of your attachment, and of the care you har "taken to give me an authentic testimony of it. 'rhi,affeaion for my person had determined you to appri " me of a fault I had inadvertently fallen into from ign · rance, hut in which my u ill had nio (hare. If your vigilance had not discovered to me the mischiefs which r mistake might have produced, what pain should I n · have felt -l, who have nothing dearer to me than t " affection and preservation of ny people ? May my br,fiuddenly wither, may my heart be struck at once Wi a deadly blow, before I Ihall ever grant particular aileen that my fiubjefls may have reason to complain The splendour of the throne has not so far dazzled ' eyes, that I should prefer the abide of an unboulln · authority to the life of a power exercised by alii The brilliancy of royalty blind only those princes i ' are ignorant of the duties that the crowns Imposes. dare believe that I Ihall not be ranked among f · monarchs. I know that I hold not tlc sceptre for own proper advantage, and that I ant entirely d(ev to society, which has put its confidence in me. my happiness to see that the state has hitherto prose," uI
under my government ; and that my fibljcas are worn o O K thy that I should yield up imy crown and my life for . . " their fakes. Impute not to hie the improper mcafilrcs I may he engaged ill, nor tile irregularities which may " be committed under the finflion of my name. You know that the ministers of prince ;ire too often guided " y private interest tat true heal loin relics the ears of kings, and that obliged as they are, from the multiplicity of affairs rlhey are liii willth, to fix thir attcn. tion on those which aie of Ic giealctt importance, it is ihnpofllbic they nioilld fc every hing will their own eyes." The finds of this company were, at fiRst far from be ing considerable. Part of them was expended in fitting ost a fleet of four flips which failed in the beginning of the year 1601; and the rest was scent abroad in money and merchandise. lJ.ANCATr.R, who commanded the expedition, arrived the year following at the port of Achenn, which was at thl:t time a celebrated mart. Intelligence was received of the victories gained by the English over the Spaniards at sea; and thiji intelligence procured him a very rifling giiiilcd exception. The king behaved to him in the false mrill.c'r as if lie had been his eqlll ; he ordered that his o(,i: iVisc5 richly allied, filild Play fevcil dances in his lrcfcncc, oi a variety l's instruments. This fa vur w;s followed by all ie compliances Ilhat could he wished for to facilitate tie cnlablinimlelnt of a fife and advantageous collintci c. 'She English admiral was re crclvc at Bantam ill the fnrie manner as at the place where he fill larded; and a flip illic he had dispatched to the Molucca ifTi.m(ii, brought him a considerable c;:rgo of closes and pitiless. With this volatile spices, aid till pepper lie took in at Java ;tibi Si:niati a, lie retired sale to Europe's *-ribs
B 0 0 IC TNz early success determined the society who had ill.,trufied their intercns in the hands iof thlii able man, t, form fcttlicnlcits in India ; lnI not wtithllout the conflict of the natives. They did not wist to begin with conquers, Their expeditions weir nothing more titian the enlcrjprizr of humane and lair travels. 'Shy T hade thcmkclvcs le. loved: bitt they gained iiothini by tibi good iiirelliiie except a few factories, a1d were ill in o condition to firlit;i the attcl]pti of their rivals who were very formidable. TH 1'ortllgilel' aid l)lln h wrlIc i pioflerlliin ol large provinces, well fortified plates, and good b:irbloi:. Sly there advantages tlhci trade was frclucd against th: 1:. lives of the country, and again sinew colnipctitlo; Iltir return to Europe *was eerlcced call ; and they lisa o1). opportunities of getting a good sale for the eos clmoi lilies they carried to A ia, and to purchase thorn tlihy w.intud at a moderate price. The Figlilh, on the contrary, cx. ^'ofcd to the caprice of seasons and of people, having 1lI1 strength. or place of security, idl deriving their fiipl'h" from england only, could not carry onm an ;dvant:icute iradc. 1 hiy found low difficult it was to a,:'ili. grit riches v. without great injustice, and that if they would lr. pass or crew equal the nitir:ls they had ceilfuilcd, thy mill nprflue the f:nme consist. Trie plan of forming lashing settlements, and ns at. tempting conduces fernilcd too great to he accomplishes by the forces of an infant society: but they llattcrtd themselves that they tholld meet with protcaiol, hecauni they thought themselves ireful. 'They were disappointed in their expectations. They could obtain nothing from James I. a weak prince, inflicted with the false philos. ply of his age, of a subtile and pedantic genius, and better qualified to be the head of an university than to pic side over an empire. By their activity, perseverance, and judicious choice officers and factors, the company provided those succours which ,arc refused them by their Ibvcircgn.,'1'hcr'
T7 IlI clrcifcd forts, :llld fountllll cOl(llies ill tile iflalr, of nl 0 0 K,lI11 . ei, 'col Acmlyn, AaII ill handle. 'I lucy likewise lt. hilaire I lift: ii'iCc-tlr(lc: wil I tic IlJut.l, whirl will always 1,I tile Iiilt ( I:llltitll Branch Lii e;ltterl (' oiniierec, bIccatife lit oLj.'t'. of itr arc l,)c ,lnic lieccI''i'y hic ties oi lily . It w:,i. ,1 n1 ' sir l lt;i ll"C :it ille tills wc ;1' fipceaklnig of, )c:ltillc the ic l :Vel ,i;iiII' C" Ils cy had l l t ti he ll ljii;lc ) Imuclih llirgrcfi' i'll ,it C ;'I- ' I it l al , d(imC: lit(, all bCe- .sir it ilereI ::. ; i, il tli:t ar I<l;|;i ir <l:ri nlidl for Ill i:! hImi;, static., tc.,, ;wild Cl (hicli vlniill, lltht tl-re i ;it .lClillt. 'I'll D1)llllh1, wbo) hire l ilivcl ll}c I']tlllngutt.r frown nIC stick iste I fl'ic. ill;iidns, nrevlf ilciralltl to fll'lcr a million o (scil -. Ill, lI', wi, 'lc inlililii1n: ltrr'c, r(lir;lLt'l', ;rind gil)VCliiiCllt-.- ',t,Inhlil take Illrl foiriiil:d!lc iiv:ils. Third had many ;i:lv;iilt;ige' omit the laid:, f ;l, h1 , i)lwcilill cColbilic ; a m.!!cxin.ifi:d .ivy. ill .iIliaiItt., a great feud ofwc:dilil, ;i ki wlcgt' Oi tl' (1i111 l' , alndl ,)1 ll: l lincipleji s :arid ':.:il (if ciintiliimHcc, wil lch the 1'u I'glill wan;titig, w( iC ;et t,,,n1 cd in all p(Ailiiiblc w.e',. 'li. till 1'lp hlcir livnl \ tok was toi live tl'in troth tic f.llii i1.1,i . v. h rni I'llIey l1;tIl lsoarilll l l inletliec' its. I1, tone ill.hdn , V.-i nc i .n : i>.})niI wr.i tw i t:llibllilitd, ally til.i .iin.itl,' . 1 lii, ,.i i C i sly void (it 1 l 111 i a d dtc- ':n.s .I iia.l]k t il l itt (i.lii. , , t lite In tllisi':s ol tie colnll- Inv. 'liitlf i til l 'ls'l c'.; - dliC t int Illicit g' wivih .,11 t!.' (Ac.ii, ellie inde, Cs i.'lcd, linil;' av.alitirous traders; re i;'in.l to lineccecl ,t a, t, nil iilci :c. An i\xl,'a.':;lit]:i;' nocc.ilni lt)inil.ht rll tiel tlc iIttllliieinccllicit 0:' hIlntlitica ficnllicr tliail w\ia,. c'pi q'tc'. IT i :1 iii¢1111tii ;it r.tV:t for the ne' tin liar cri d wlmn to ilii,]e with (li ir hlitlt:ilii!', tic Ills 'ivour .t ; 'i; i lo ,. Ths; k;:i,! of,, nt 'i rr willth li c mein tail. ;a I iii ins teriin al ilnr iarmndjatlnt'.t. :inde ht. lVwAllln'a it) Ial'lll? ils ar ll ;1', .a.t f'i1'l, ninirtii''' 1.rln rfi'vcl.l wee . 'JI'h ki .< o<f l;r],nt.n. hiding oicort llict rclnii:t',: los' it new blidic imlilKe 'i ll',J . t hIe
B 0 0 K lie entertainments in celebration of his triumph. Tha . ' i strangers in the harbour were invited to these festivals unhappily for them the English were treated with too much distinction. The Dutch looked with a jealous eye upon this preference, and did not defer revenge a mo. ment. They attacked them on all sides. THE Indian ocean became, at this period, the scene of the most bloody engagements between the maritime forces of the two nations. They fought out. attacked, and combated each other with the spirit of men who chose to conquer or die. Equal courage appeared on both sides, but there was a disparity in their forces. The English were on the point of being overcome, when some mode. rate people in Europe, which the flames of war had not reached, endeavoured to find cut the means of accom. locating their differences. By an infatuation, which it is not easy to explain the cause of, the very strangeRs of all was adopted. - IN 1619 the two companies signed a treaty, the purport of which was that the Molucca islands, Amboyna, and Banda, sould belong in common to the two nations: that the English (hould have one third, and the Dutch two thirds of the produce at a fixed price: that each, in proportion to their interest, should contribute to the de. fence of there islands: that a council composed of fkilfc! men of both parties, should regulate all the affairs of commerce at Batavia: That this agreement, guaranteed by the respective sovereigns should last twenty years; ard that if any differences Should arise, during this intent, that could not be settled by the two companies, th(? Should be determined by the king of Great Britain and the States-general. Among all the political convention preserved in hilary, it would be difficult to find a more extraordinary one than this. It had the fate it deserved. THE Dutch were no sooner informed of it in India, the they devised means to render it ineffectual. The fituario;,o1
of affairs favoured their designs. The Spaniards and the B 00 K portuguese had taken advantage of the disputes between , their enemies, to regain their settlements in the Moluccas. They might fortify themselves there; and it was dan serous to give them time. The English commissaries con cursed with them in opinion that it would be best to attack them without delay; but added, that they were not at all prepared to art in concert with them. This declaration which was expected, was registered; and their associates embarked alone in an expedition, all the advantages of which they reserved to themselves. The agents of the Dutch company had only one step further to go, to get all the spices into the hands of their masters, which was to drive their rivals from the island of Amboyna. The method by which they succeeded in their project was very extraordinary. A JAPANESE, in the Dutch service at Amboyna, made himself filfpeded by his imprudent curiosity. He was seized, and confessed that he had entered into an engage plenty with the soldiers of his nation to deliver up the fort to the English. His comrades confirmed his account, making the same confession. Upon there unanimous dc positions, the authors of the conspiracy, who did not disavow but even acknowledged it, were put in irons: and the plot was stifled in the death of the criminals by the hands justice. This is the account given by the Dutch. THE English have always considered this accusation as the suggestion of an unbounded avarice. They have maintained that it was absurd to suppose, that ten factors and eleven foreign soldiers could have formed the project of seizing upon a place, which was garrisoned by two hundred men: that even if these unhappy men had thought it possible to execute so extravagant a plan, would they not have been discouraged by the impossibility of ob. gaining succours to defend them against an enemy who would have besieged them on all sides ?. To make a con-piracy
B O 0 K piracy of this kind probable, it requires stronger proof,IIL ~ ~ than a confession extorted from the accused by extremity of torture. The torments of the rack never as forded any other proof, than that of the courage or weakness of those whom barbarous custom condemned to it. Thee considerations, strengthened by several others, almost equally convincing, have made the story of the conspiracy of Amboyna so suspected, that it has commonly passed for a cloak to palliate cruelty and avarice. THE ministry of James I. and the whole nation were at that time so engaged in ecclesiastical subtilties, and the discussion of the rights of king and people, that they were not sensible of the insults offered to the English name in the East. This indifference produced a caution which soon degenerated into weakness. These islanders, however, maintained the bravery of their character better at Coromandel and Malabar. .i.tsie -f THEY had established factories at Mazlllipatam, Ca t Ens'ih lieut, and several other ports, and even at Delhi. Surat, .with the PoEncgefe. the richest mart in these countries, tempted their am-edition in 1611. The inhabitants were disposed to receive them: but the Portuguese declared, that if they suffered this nation to make a settlement, they would burn all the towns upon the coast, and seize all the Indian vessels. The government was awed by these menaces. Middleton disappointed in his hopes, was obliged to abandon the place, and return through a numerous fleet to which he did more damage than he received. Capitals Thomas Best arrived in there latitudes the year following, with a very considerable force. He was received at Surat without any opposition. The agents he carried out with him had scarce entered upon their employments when a formidable arimdcnr ci om Goa made its appearance. The English ad.sir:l, reduced to this alternative, either of betraying the interests lie was ;1-,tiulicid
titled with, or exposing himself to the greatest danger B 0 O Kill in defending them, did not hesitate what part he should L as. He twice attacked the Portuguese, and notwithstanding the great inferiority of his squadron, gained the victory each time. However, the advantage the van quilted derived from their position, their ports, and their fortresses, always made the English navigation in the Gu marat very difficult. They were obliged to maintain a constant struggle against an obstinate enemy that was not discouraged by defeats. No tranquillity was to be obtained, but at the price of new contests and new triumphs. THE news of these glorious successes against a nation TheEnglilh,form con which had hitherto been thought invincible, reached as nefio"s far as the capital of Persia. with Persia. THIS vast country, so celebrated in antiquity, appear ed to have been free at the first institution of its govern ment. The monarchy rose upon the ruins of a depraved republic. The Persians were long happy under this form es government: their manners were as simple as their laws. At length the spirit of conquest infused itself into the sovereigns. At that time the treasures of Assyria, the spoils of many trading nations, and the tribute arising from a vast number of provinces, brought immense riches into the empire, which soon occasioned a total alteration. The disorders rose to such a pitch, that the care of the public amusements seemed to engage the chief attention of government. A PEOPLE totally devoted to pleasure could not fail in a short time to be reduced to a state of slavery. They were successively enslaved by the Macedonians, the Parthian, the Arabians, and the Tartars, and towards the close of the fifteenth century by the Sophia, who pretended to be the descendents of Aly, author of the famous reforma tion, by which Mohammedanism was divided into two branches.,No
B O O K No prince of this new race made himself so famous as,III. . Shah-Abbas, curtained the Great. He conquered Kandahar, several places of importance upon the Black Sea, part of Arabia, and drove the Turks out of Georgia, Armenia, Mesopotamia, and all the countries they had conquered on this side the Euphrates.,THESE victories produced remarkable changes in the interior administration of the empire. The great men took advantage of the civil broils to make themselves independent they were degraded, and all posts of consequence were given to strangers, who had neither the power nor inclination to raise factions. The militia having taken upon themselves to dispose of the crown at their pleasure; they were restrained by foreign troops, whose religion and customs were different. Anarchy had in dined the people to sedition; and to prevent this, the towns and villages were filled with colonies chosen out of nations whose manners and character bore no resemblance to those of the ancient inhabitants. These arrangements gave rise to a despotism the nose absolute, perhaps, that any country ever experienced. IT is surprizing how the great Abbas routed means to introduce into this government, which trampled on tie natural rights of mankind, some designs lor the public advantage. He patronized the arts, and efrabiiflied them at court, and in the provinces. Al' who came into his dominions, if they possessed talents of any kind, were sure of being well received, ossified, and rewarded. He would often say, that strangers were the best ornaments of an empire, and added more to a prince's dignity than the pomp of the most refined luxury while Persia was rising from its ruins by the different branches of industry that were every where established, a colony of Armenians, transplanted to Ifpahan, carried the spirit of commerce into the heart of the empire. In a litter time, these traders, ard the navies of the country who,followcved
followed their example, spread themselves over the East, P 0 0 &,It. into Holland, England, the Mediterranean and the -~. Baltic, and wherever business was carried on with spirit and advantage. 'he Soph himself bore a part in their enterprizes, and advanced them considerable sums, which they employed to advantage in the iboft celebrated marts in the world. They were obliged to return the capital on the terms agreed upon, and if they had increased it by their industry, he granted them some recompense, THE Portuguese, who found that a part of the Indian trade with Asia and Europe was likely to be diverted to Persia, imposed restraints upon it: they would not sussex the Persians to purchase merchandize any where but from their magazines: they fixed the price of it; and if they sometimes allowed it to be taken at the places where it was manufactured, it was always to be carried in their own bottoms, charging all expences of freight and exorbitant customs. This stretch of power displeased the great Abbas, who being informed of the resentment of the English, pro posed to unite their maritime strength with his land forces, to besiege Ormus. This place was attacked by the com dined arms of the two nations and taken in the year 1622, after a contest that lasted two months. The conquerors divided the spoil, which was immense, and afterwards to tally demolished the place. THREE or four leagues from hence there was, upon the continent, an harbour called Gombron, or Bender Aballi. Nature seemed not to have designed it should be inhabited. It is situated at the foot of a ridge of mountains of an excessive height; the air you breathe seems to be on fire; mortal vapours continually exhale from the bowels of the earth; the fields are black and dry, as if they had been scorched with fire. Notwithstanding these inconveniences, as Bender-Abatli had the advantage of being placed at the entrance of the Gulf, the Persian mo march chore to make it the centre of the extensive trade unintended
3 0 0 K intended to carry on with India. The English joined in,U this project. A perpetual exemption from all imports, and a moiety of the procul of the customs, were granted them, on condition they should maintain, at least, two men of war in the Gulf. This precaution was thought necessary to frustrate the attempts of the Portuguese, whose resent. ment was fill to be dreaded. Foal this time Bender-abash, which was before a poor filing town, became flourishing city. The English car. cried thither spices, pepper, and sugar, from the markets of the east; and iron, lead, and cloths, from the ports of Europe. The profits arising from there commodities were increased by the very high freight paid them by the Ar menials, who were fill in possession of the richest branch of the Indian commerce. THESE merchants had, for a long time, been concerned in the linen trade. They had never been supplanted either by the Portuguese, who were intent only on plunder, or by the Dutch, whose attention was totally confined to the spice trade. They might, nevertheless, be apprehensive, that they mould not be able to withstand the competition of a people who were equally rich, industrious, afire, and frugal. The Armenians acted then as they have ever done since: they went to India, where they bought cotton, which they sent to the spinners; the cloths were manu fractured under their own inspection,. and carried to Gom- iron, from whence they were transported to Ifpahan. From thence they found their way into the different pro. vices of the empire, the dominions of the Grand Signior, and into Europe, where the custom has prevailed of calling them Persian manufactures, though they were never made but on the coast of Coromandel. Such is the influence of names upon opinions, that the vulgar error, which attributes to Persia the manufacture of the Indies, will, in a series of ages, perhaps, pars with the learned in future times for an incontestable truth. The insurmountable,difficultiel
difficulties which errors of this kind have occasioned in the 1B 0 ,ok history of Pliny, and other ancient writers, should induce us to set a high value on the labours of the literati of this age, who collect the works of nature and of art with a view of transmitting them to posterity. Is exchange for the merchandise they carried to Persia, its gave the following articles which were either the pro duce of their own soil, or the fruits of their industry. Silk, which was the principal commodity; and was pre pared and exported in great quantities. Armenian wool, which nearly resembles that of the Vicuna. It was of great use in the manufacture of hats, and of some stuffs. It is a remarkable circumstance in the goats that produce it, that in the month of May the fleece falls off of itself. The turquoises, which are more or less valuable, accord ing as they are procured from one or other of the three mines that produce them. They were formerly an article of the dress of our ladies. Gold brocades, which sold at a higher price than any of those which are the produce of the most celebrated manufactures. Some of them were made to be worn on one, and others on both sides. They were used for window-curtains, fkrecnr, and magnificent sopha. Tapestry, which has since been so well imitated in Europe, and has, for a long time been the richest furniture of our rooms. Morocco, which, as other skins, is brought to a degree of perfection which cannot be equalled any where else. Shagreen, goats hair, rose-water, medicinal roots, gums for colours, dates, horses, arms, and many other articles, of which some a.c sold in India, and others carried to Europe. Thole the Dutch managed to get all the trade of India into their lands, they vient the tr;ffaciicns of Persia with a jealous eye. They though t the privileges enjoyed by their rivals in the road of BClnd.-Ai11ni might be compensated by the advantage they llhd in having greater
B3 0 K greater quantity of spices, and entered into a competitions., . with them. Decline THE English, harassed in every mart by a powerful of the English in In enemy, resolutely bent on their destruction were obliged every where to give way. Their fate was hastened by those civil and religious dissentions, which deluged their country with blood, and extinguished all sentiments-nd knowledge. India was totally forgotten, while the mos important interests were at flake; and the company op pressed and discouraged, were reduced to nothing at the time that the death of Charles afforded so intrusive and dreadful a elton. CROMWELL, enraged at the favours the Dutch had !hewn to the unfortunate family of the Stuartss, and at the asylum they had afforded to the English who had been proscribed; and piqued that the republic of the United Provinces should pretend to the dominion of the sea; proud of his success, and sensible of his own strength, and of that of the nation under his command, resolved at the same time to make it respected, and to revenge his own quarrel. He declared war against the Dutch. OF all the maritime wars which have been recorded in history, none were conducted with more knowledge, or were more famous for the skill of the commanders, ant the bravery of the sailors ; none presented so great a numb her of obstinate and bloody engagements. The Englid obtained the advantage, and owed it to the size of their ships, in which particular they have once been imitated by other European nations. THE protector, whole voice was law, did not exert him self as far as he might in favour of India. He contented himself with providing for the security of the English trade procuring a disavowal of the masSacre at Amboyna, an insisting upon an indemnification for the descendants ( the unhappy victims who perished in that dreadful trans action. No notice is taken in the treaty, of the forts take,fro]
from the nation by the Dutch, in the island of Java, and B 0 o K in several of the Moluccas. It was stipulated, indeed, } that the island of Puleron 'hould be restored: but the usurpers seconded by the English negotiator whom they had corrupted, found means to elude this article so dextrously, which would and ought to have produced a rivalry in the spice trade, that the observance of it was never enforced. NoTvWTnSTAoNDiLG this neglce, as soon as the com Revival of,the Enlt;at any had obtained from the protector a renewal of their true in' privileges in 1657, and found themselves firmly supported Ilia. by the public authority, they showed a spirit of resolution which they had lost during their late misfortunes. Their courage kept pace with their rights. THE success they met in Europe, accompanied them into Asia. Arabia, Persia, Hindostan, the eastern parts of India, China, and all the markets where the English had formerly traded, were opened to them. They were even received with more frankness and less distrust than they had experienced formerly. Their trade was very brisk, and their profits very considerable: nothing was wanting to compleat their success but an entrance into Japan, which they attempted. But the Japanese having learned from the hitch' that the king's England had married a daughter of the king of Portugal, refused to admit the English into their ports. NOTwI-.tSTANDING this disappointment, the com any's affairs were in a very flourishing condition : they flattered themselves with the pleasing hopes of giving a greater extent and security to their affairs, when they found their career retarded by a rivalry, which their own success created. Some traders, fired with the relation of the advantages Mlfistonts,and mansion to be obtained in India, resolved to make voyages thither. da of the Charles II. who filled the throne with the voluptuous and English in,the ladies. dissolute manners of a private character, gave them per mission for a valuable consideration; while, on the other VOL. I. S hand,
B O O K hand, he extorted large sums from the company, to enable,IIL I him to persecute those who encroached upon his privileges competition of this nature would unavoidably degene. rate into piracy. The English thus becoming enemies to each other, carried on their disputes with a spirit of ran. courland animosity, which lowered them in the opinion of the people of Alia. TPE Dutch wished to take advantage of so singular a conjuncture. These republicans had for a long time been absolute masters of the Indian trade. They had seen with regret a part of it taken out of their hands, at the conclu sion of the civil wars in England. They hoped to recover it by the superiority of their forces, when in 1664 the two nations entered into a war in all parts of the world; but the hostilities did not continue long enough to an. fewer these sanguine expectations. As the peace prevented them from having recourse to open violence, they resolved to attack the sovereigns of the country to oblige them to shut their ports against their rival. The foolish and de. amicable behaviour of the English increased the insolence of the Dutch, v:-ho proceeded so far as to drive them igno. ominously from Bantam in 1680.,So serious and public an insult routed the spirit of the English company. The desire of re-establishing their cha. racer gratifying their revenge, and maintaining their. interests animated them to make the greatest efforts. They equipped a fleet of twenty-three ships, with eight thousand regular troops on board. They were ready to fail, when their departure was postponed by the king's orders. Charles;, : huge necessities and licentiousness were un bounded, had entertained hopes of receiving an immense sum to notice him to recall this armament. As he could rno obtain it from his subjects, he was resolved to receive it from his enemies. He sacrificed the honour and trade of his nation for z,z2),0oo livres a which were paid hint,9E;S37L els.,by
by the Dutch, who were intimidated by there great pre B o o K operations. The intended expedition never took place. 1. THE company exhausted by the expences of an arma ment, which had been rendered useless by the venality of the court, sent their vessels to India without the necessary funds to supply the cargoes; but with orders to the sac tors, if possible to take them upon credit. The fidelity they had hitherto observed in their engagements procured them 6,750,000 livres a. Nothing can be more extraordinary than the method that was taken to pay them back. Jostos CHILD, who from being a director, was become the tyrant of the company, is said, unknown to his col leagues, to have sent orders to India, to invent some pre. hence or other, to defraud the lenders of their money. The execution of this iniquitous project was intrusted to his brother John Child, who was governor of Bombay. This avaricious, turbulent, and savage man, immediately proceeded to make several claims upon the governor of Surat, some more foolish than others. These demands meeting with the reception they deserved, he attacked all the vessels belonging to the subjects of the crown of Delhi, and singled out in particular the this from Surat, as being the richest. He paid no regard to vessels that failed with its pass-ports, and carried his insolence so far as to seize a fleet laden with provision for the great Mogul's army. This terrible pillage which lafRcd the whole Year 1688, occasioned incredible losses through out all Indoflan. AsuREKCZEBE, who held the reins of the empire with a steady hand, did not lose a moment in revenging so great outrage. In the beginning of the year 1689, one of his lieutenants landed with twenty thousand men at Bombay, an island of consequence on the coast of Malabar, which a princess of Portugal had brought as her dowry to Charles II. and which that monarch had ceded to the company in 1668. On the enemy's approach, the,295,3121. lo .,S a fort
B o o K fort of Magazine was abandoned with such precipitationi,IlL,that money, provisions, several chess of arms, and four. teen pieces of heavy cannon were left behind. The In tian general, encouraged by this first advantage, attacked the English in the field, routed them, and obliged them to retire into the principal fortress, which he inverted, and hoped soon to make it surrender child, who was as dastardly in time of danger as he had been daring in his piracies, immediately dispatched deputies to court, to sue for pardon. After many entreaties and much mean submission, the English were admit. ted into the emperor's presence with their hands tied, and their faces towards the ground. Aurengzebe, who wa? desirous of preferring a connection, which he thought would be useful to his fubjehs, was not inflexible. Hav. ing delivered himself in the stile of an incensed sovereign, who could, and ought, perhaps, to revenge himself, he yielded to their intreaties and submission. The banish. ment of the author of the troubles, and an adequate com sensation for such of his subjects as had been plundered, was all the justice exacted on this occasion by the supreme will of the most despotic monarch that ever existed. On these moderate terms, the English were permitted still to enjoy these privileges they had obtained at different times in the roads belonging to the Mogul. THUS ended this unhappy affair, which for several years interrupted the trade of the company, occasioned expence of between nine and ten millions 1, the Iof0 of five large vessels, and a greater number of frill ones; cost the lives of many thousand excellent sailors, and ended in the ruin of the credit and honour of the nation: two particulars, the value of which can never be estimated too highly. BY changing their maxims and their conduct, the com any might flatter themselves with the prope: of being extricated from the abyss into which their own behaviour an average about 414,000o .,-aa
had plunged them. These hopes were soon dashed by a B 0 o,IIL revolution which did not directly concern them. James II. a tyrannical and fanatic prince, but one who understood maritime affairs and commerce better than any of his contemporaries, was deposed. This event made all Europe take arms. The consequences of these bloody quarrels are well known. Perhaps, it is not so well known that the French privateers took four thousand two hundred English merchantmen, valued at fix hundred seventy-five millions of livres a, and that the greatest part of the vessels return. ing from India were included in this fatal life. THESE depredations were succeeded by a spirit of ceo. nome, which must naturally hasten the ruin of the com any. The French refugees had carried the culture of lax and hemp into Ireland and Scotland. For the encouragement of this branch of industry, it was thought pro per to prohibit the wear of Indian linens, except muffins, and those which were necessary for the African trade. How could a body already exhausted sustain so unforeseen, so heavy a stroke ? THE peace which hould have put an end to these misfortunes filled up the measure of them. Three king dons with one voice exclaimed against the company. It was not their decline that raised them enemies: it only encouraged those they had already. They met with op position at their fit establishment. Ever fence the year 1615, several politicians had declaimed against the trade to the East Indies. They asserted, that it weakened the naval strength by destroying great numbers of men ; and lessened the Levant and Ruffian commerce, without afford ing an equivalent advantage. There clamours, though contradicted by judicious people, grew so violent to wards the year 1628, that the company seeing themselves exposed to the odium of the nation, applied to govern ment. They petitioned that the nature of their commerce,329, 53gh01 S 3 m git
B O O K might be examined: that it might be prohibited, if it was, . contrary to the interest of the state; and if favourable tother, that it might be authorized by a public declaration. The opposition of the nation, which had been some time dormant, was renewed with more fire. than ever, at the period we are speaking of. Those who were less fe vere in their speculations, consented to a trade with In dia; but maintained that it should be laid open to the whole nation. An exclusive charter was, in their opinion, a manifest encroachment upon liberty. Accordingly to them, government was established by the people with a view of advancing the general good: and it would be a crime against it to sacrifice public to private interests, by tolerating odious monopolies. They supported this useful and incontestable principle, by appealing to a recent in stance. They urged, that during the rebellion, the private merchants who had got possession of the Adriatic seas, car cried double the quantity national goods there was former ly a demand for, and were in a condition to sell commodities on their return at so low a price as to supplant the Dutch in all the European markets. But there acute republicans, who were certain of their ruin, if the English Should continue any longer to contra their affairs on the maxims of universal liberty, bribed certain persons to prevail with Cromwell, to form a separate company. These secret practices were countenanced by the English merchants concerned in that trade, who hoped for greater advantages in future; when being the only venders, they might impose what terms they pleased uipo the consumers. The Protector, deceived by the artful insinuations of both parties, renewed the charter-but for seven years only, that he might alter his conduct, if he found reason to think he had taken a wrong step. T TIs step was not thought a wrong one by any body. Several people were of opinion, that the trade to India could not be carried on with advantage, without an ex clive privilege: but many of them maintained that the,prelesnt
present charter was insufficient; having been granted by B ° 0 K kings who had no right to do it. They recited many acts of this kind which were abrogated by parliament in the reigns of Edward III. Henry IV. James I. and other princes. Charles II. indeed, obtained a verdiR of this nature in the court of common pleas, but it was founded upon a frivolous pretence. This tribunal had the con silence to declare, That the prince had authority to prevent his subject from holding commerce with infidels, /lt the peu city of their faith hould be contaminated. TnH o H the parties above-mentioned were actuated by private, and even opposite views, they all united in the plan of making the trade free, or at least of procuring the reversal of the company's charter. The nation, in general, were on their side: but the body that was at tacked, defended itself by its partisans, the ministry, and all the dependents of the court, who made this a common cause. Each party had recourse to libels, intrigue and corruption. These contending passions produced one of those storms, the violence of which can hardly be felt any where but in England. The several factions, feet and interests maintained a furious combat; in which they all mingled without distinction of rank, age, or sex. Such a spirit of enthusiasm had never been railed by the greatest events. To keep up the zeal of their friends, the com any offered to lend large sums on condition of obtaining their charter. Their adversaries made offers still more considerable to get it revoked. THE two houses of parliament, before whom this cause Vas heard, declared in favour of the private merchants. They obtained leave to carry on trade to India, either separately or in concert. They entered into an association and formed a new company. The old one had per million to continue its armaments till the expiration of their charter, which was very near at hand. Thus England had two East India companies at the-fame time, authorised
B o o . rifcd by parliament instead of one established by royal,IIL .i - authority.,THEsg two bodies shewed as much zeal for the delfruc. tion of each other, as they had Shown for their respective establishment. They had both experienced the advantages of trade; and viewed each other with all the jealousy and hatred, which ambition and avarice never fail to inspire. Their dissensions soon broke out with considerable violence in Europe; as well as in India. At last, the two societies made advances towards a reconciliation, and united their fund; in 1702. From this period the affairs of the corn. any were carried on with greater propriety, prudence and dignity. The principles of commerce, which were every day better understood in England, had a good effiil on their administration, as far as the interests of their mo. monopoly could allow. They made improvements in their former regulations, and formed new ones. They ended. poured to indemnify themselves for the profits they were deprived of by a strong competition, by procuring a larger sale for their commodities. Their privileges were less violently attacked, since they had received the fane. tion of the laws, and obtained the protection of parliament Tse;a prosperity was overcast by some transient mis fortunes. In 1702 the English had formed a settlement in the island of Pulocondor, which was dependant on Collins China. Their design was to take a share in the commerce of this rich kingdom, which had till then been too much neglected. An instance of excessive severity had given disgust to sixteen soldiers of Macassar, who were part of the garrison. On the 3d. of March 1705 they set fire in the night to the houses belonging to the fort, andmaf. sacred the Europeans as they came to extinguish it. Thirty out of forty-five lost their lives in this manner; the rest were knocked on the head by the natives, who,. were
were exasperated at the insolence of these strangers. By 8.q o K this accident the company lost the money their enterprize , . had cost them, together with the flock of their stories and the prospect they had entertained. THE misfortunes they met with at Sumatra in the year 1719 were not attended with the same fatal consequences. This large island had been frequented by the English ever since their arrival in India, but they did not fettle there till the year 1688. They drove the Dutch from Bencoolen, a confiderable town on the western coast, built near a large and commodious bay: and took possession of it in their room. The conquerors found the islanders inclined to treat with them ; and there dispositions were at first im proved with prudence. This circumspect behaviour did not last long. The company's agents soon abandons themselves to that spirit of rapine and tyranny, which the Europeans finally carry with them into Asia. Clouds of discontent between them and the natives of the country began to gather by degrees. Distrust and animosity had risen to the highest pitch, when the foundations of a rising fort were discovered at the distance of a few miles from the coast. On seeing this, the inhabitants of Bencoolen took up arms, and were joined by the whole country. All the buildings belonging to the company were instantly reduced to ashes, the English were routed, and obliged to embark with all the effects they could carry off. Their exile was not Qs long continuance. The fear of falling inter the dominion of the merciless Dutch who had a throng force upon their frontier, procured their recall. In recompence of this differ, they obtained the advantage of finishing the fort Marlborough without oppositions, which they still retain. THESE disturbances were no sooner appeased, than new ones arose in Malabar and other countries. As the source of them all lay in the avarice and turbulent disposition of the company's servants, they put an end to them by giving,11p
0O O K up the unjustifiable pretensions that had occasioned them. .- . Other object of the most interesting nature soon claimed their attention. WTr hS England and France entered into a war in 1744. The re-llnhed whole world became the cfene of their operations. ln Foal India, as well as in other places, each nation sustained its,charater. The English, ever animated with the spirit of commerce, attacked and ruined that of their enemies. The French, adhering to their parson for conquest, seized upon the principal settlements belonging to their rival. The event shewed which of the two nations had aged with the greatest prudence. That which attended to nothing but its own aggrandizement, sunk into a total inactivity; while the other, deprived of the center of its power, car cried its enterprizes to a greater extent. A CEssATION of hostilities between the two divided nations had no sooner taken place, than they engaged themselves as auxiliaries, into the quarrels of the Indian princes. Soon after they again took arms on their own account. Before the end of this war, the French were driven out cf the continent and seas of Asia. At the con elusion of the peace in 1763, the English company found themselves in possession of the empire, in Arabia, in the Persian Gulph, on the coasts of Malabar and Coromandel, and at Bengal. I:; all these countries there is a difference in climate, manners, soil, productions, the spirit of industry, and the price of merchandise. These particulars ought to be ex aptly and thoroughly understood. We will give a short sketch of them. This description will be found to have particular connection with the history of a nation, which C. has obair.ed a remarkable influence, and derives from it ,.-,i the the g"e-resi adv-ntges. t.J Se. arn of the ARABIA is one of the largest peninsulas in the known,gt'liir world. It is bounded by Syria, Warbeck and Irac- tric there i p:-.cu- Arabs en the north, by the Indian Ocean on the south, a'r. by
by the Gulph of Persia on the leaf, and on the weft by B o 0 K the Red Sea, which separates it from Africa. It is com monty divided into three parts;. Arabia Petra, Arabia Deserta, and Arabia Felix, which names denote the nature of the soil in each of there countries. ARilt;A Petra is the most western and the smallest of the three. It is for the most part uncultivated, and almost totally covered with rocks. In Arabia Deserta nothing is to be seen but arid plains, heaps of sand raised and dissipated by the wind, and steep mountains never adorned with a pleating verdure. Springs are so rarely found there, that the possession of them is always disputed sword in hand. Arabia Felix owes its specious appellation less to its fertility than to its vicinity to the barren countries that surround it. These different regions, though exposed to great heats, enjoy a Sky constantly pure and serene. ALL histories agree that this country was peopled at a very early period. It is thought that its first inhabitants came from Syria and Chaldea. We cannot find at what period their form of government began; whether their knowledge was derived from Indict, or whether it was acquired. It appears that their religion was Sabeifim even before they were acquainted with the people of Upper Asia. They had early sublime ideas of the divinity: they worshipped the stars as bodies animated by celestial spirits: their religion was neither cruel nor absurd; and though they were liable to those rallies of enthusiasm so common among the southern nations, they do not seem to have been tainted with fanaticism till the time of Mohammed. The inhabitants of Arabia Deserta professed a worship not quite so rational. Many of them worshipped, and some offered human sacrifices to the fun. It is a truth that may be collected from the study of history and the inspection of the globe, that the religions in barren countries, fabjec to inundations and volcanos, have ever had a tincture of cruelty, and have always been of a milder castile
B 0 q K in countries where nature has been more indulgent. The) , - . take their character from the climate where they reformed. WHEN Mohammed had established a new religion in hi, country, it was no difficult talk to infuse a spirit of zeal into his followers; and this zeal made them conquerors. They extended their dominion from the western leas to those of China, and from the Canaries to the Molucca islands. They carried useful arts along with them, which they improved to perfection. The Arabians did not equally succeed in the fine arts; they shewed, indeed, some genius for them, but had not the leaR idea of that taste with which nature some time after inspired the people who have become their disciples. PERHAPs genius, which is the offspring of a creative imagination, flourishes in hot countries, where a variety of productions, grand scenes, and surprizing events, ex cite enthusiasm; while taste, which selects with cho;c: the produce of the fields that genius has sown, seems ra. ther to belong to people of a ready, mild, and moderate temper, who live under the influence of an indulgent sky. Perhaps too this same taste, which is the effect of reason refined and matured by time, requires a certain stability in the government, united with a certain freedom of thinking, an insensible progress of science, which afford. ing a greater scope to genius, enables it to discern more exactly the relation one objet has to another, and to com. bine with happier art those mixed sensations which give the highest entertainment to men of elegant minds. Ac accordingly the Arabians, who were almost constantly forced into regions glowing with war and fanaticism, never en toyed that temperature of government and climate which gives birth to taste. But they introduced into the countries they conquered sciences which they had pillaged, as it were, in the course of their ravages, and all the arts essential to the prosperity of nations.,No
No nation, at that time, understood commerce so well, 6 0 6 k,IIl. ,er carried it to a greater extent. They attended to it even in the course of their conquests. Their merchants, manufactures, and markets, reached from Spain to Ton quin; and other people, at least those in the western part of the world, were indebted to them for arts and sciences, and all articles conducive to the convenience, the prefer. nation, and the pleasures of life. WHEN the power of the Caliphs began to decline, the Arabians, after the example of several nations they had subdued, threw off the yoke of these princes, and the country re-assumed by degrees its ancient form of go government, as well as its primitive manners. At this era, the nation being, as formerly, divided into tribes under the conduct of different chiefs, returned to their original character from which fanaticism and ambition had made them depart. TaE nature of the Arabians is low, their bodies lean, and their voice slender; but they have robust constitutions, brown hair, a swarthy complexion, black sparkling eyes, an ingenious countenance, but seldom agreeable. This contrasted mixture of features and qualities, which seem incompatible, seem to have been united in this race of men, to constitute a singular nation, ivhofe figure and character partake strongly of that of the Turks, Africans, and Persians, by whom they are surrounded. Grave and serious, they add dignity to their long beard, speak little, life no gesture, make no pauses or falter in their conversation They pique themselves on observing the strictest probity towards each other, which is the effect of that 'flf-love, and that spirit of patriotism, which, united together, make any nation, clan or society, esteem, fa your, and prefer themselves to the rest of the world. The more carefully they preserve their phlegmatic character, so much the more formidable is their resentment when oar. it is raised. These people have abilities. and even a,3 genius
B o 0 K genius for the sciences; but they cultivate them but little,,L either from want of affiance, or because they have no,occasion for them; chusing rather, no doubt, to sussex natural evils, than the inconvenience of labour. The Arabians, at this time of day, afford no monument of genius, no productions of industry, which intitle them to make a figure in the history of the human mind. THEIR ruling passion is jealousy; that torment of impetuous weak, and indolent minds. It might naturally be asked, whether this distrust was owing to the high or low opinion they entertained of themselves ? It is said to be from the Arabians that several nations of Alia, Africa, znd even Europe ihfeif, have borrowed those despicable precautions which this odious passion prescribes against a sex, which ought to be th. guardian, not the save of our pleasures. As con as a daughter is born, they unite by a kind of future those parts which nature has separated, leaving just space enough for the natural discharges. As the child grows, the parts by degrees adhere so closely, that when they-become marriageable they are obliged tJ be separated by an incision. Sometimes it is though: ifi5cient to make use cia ring. The married women, a well as the unmarried, are fube&cd to this outrage on the virtue of the sex; s irh this difference only, that the ring worn by the young women cannot be taken off, whereas that of the married women has a kind of padlock, ci which the husband keeps the key. This custom, which is known in all parts of Arabia, is almost universally adopted in the part that bears the name of Retract. SUCH are the manners of the nation in general. The different manner of living in the people who compose it, must necessarily have introduced some peculiarities of character that are worth observing. TsE number of Arabians otho inhabit the Desert nay amount to two millions. They are distributed into a great number of clans, font:' of i.thl are more populous a.nd,considerable
considerable than others, but all independent of each B 0 0 K Other. Their government is ample an hereditary chief, affixed by a few old men, determines all debates, and punishes the offenders. If he is hospitable, humane, and jut, they adore him; if haughty, cruel, and avaricious, they tear him in pieces, and appoint a successor out of his own family. THESE people form encampments in all seasons of the year. They have no fettled abode, and fix at different places where they can be supplied with water, fruits, and pasture. They find an infinite charm in this wandering life, and consider the sedentary Arabs in the light of slaves. They live upon the milk and flesh of their herds. Their habits, tents, cordage, and the tapestry they sleep upon, are all made of the wool of their sheep, and the hair of their goats and camels. This is the employment of the women in each family; and there is not a single artist in the whole desert. What they consume in tobacco, coffee, rice, and dates, is purchased with the butter they carry to the frontiers, and by the money arising from the annual sale of twenty thousand camels, at forty-eight livres a head. These animals, so ufefill in the east, were formerly carried to Syria. The greatest number are now sent to Persia, the perpetual wars there having occasioned an e extraordinary demand for them, and lessened their numbers. THESE articles not being sufficient to supply the Arabs with what they wanted, they have contrived to raise a contribution on the caravans, which superstition obliges to traverse their sands. The molt numerous of there, which goes from Tamar to Mecca, procures a safe passage by the payment of a hundred pulses, or a hundred and fifty thousand livres, to which the Grand Seignior is subsided, and which, by ancient agreement, is distributed among all the clans. The other caravans make similar al. i.t b ,cil. Ior.,ter.m.a
i 0o o K terms with the clans, through whose territories they are obliged to pass. INDEPernBNTLY of this expedient, the Arabs inhabit. ing the moil northern part of the desert have.had recourse to plunder. These people, so humane, faithful, and disinterested towards each other, arc savage and rapacious in their transactions with foreigners. While they presence in their tents, the character of beneficent and generous otis, they commit continual depredations on the town and villages in their neighbourhood. They are good fathers, good husbands, and good mailers; but all are enemies who do not belong to their family. They frequently carry their incursions to a great distance; and Syria, Mesopotamia, and Persia, are not uncommonly the scenes of their depredations. THE Arabs, who devote themselves to plunder, form a fort of society with the carpets, to carry on trade or war, where the man is to have all the profit, and the animal the principal fatigue. As these two beings are to live toge. ther, they are brought up with a view to each other. The Arab trains his camel from its birth, to all the cher. cites and hardships it is to undergo during the whole cours of its life. He accustom it to travel far, and eat little. The animal is early inured to pass its days without drink. ing, and its nights withoutfleep. He teaches him to dra' up his legs under hill belly, while he suffers himself to be laden with burthens, that are insensibly increased as hiD strength is increased by age and fatigue. In this singular plan of education, which princes fuorctimes adopted the more easily to tame their sujets, in proportion as the labour is doubled, the subsistence is diminished. The Arabians qualify the camels for expedition, by match, in which the Short enrcrs into a competition with him. The latter, lets native and nimble, tires out his rival in 1 long course. When the mailer ;;ld the camel are ready and equipped for plunder, they let out together, travers
,erse the sandy deserts, and lie in ambufh'dpon the con B 0 K fines to rob the merchant or traveller. The man ravages, massacres, and seizes the-prey: anti the camel carries the booty. If there adventurers are pursued, they make a precipitate retreat. The master robber mounts his favourite camel, drives the whole troop before him, travels three hundred leagues in eight days without unloading his camels, or allowing them more than an hour each day for rest, or a cake of dough for their subsistence, Theyfonerimes remain the whole time without drinking, unless they happen to see a spring at a little distance from the road, when they redouble their pace, run to the water with eagerness, which makes them take at one draught, as much as is sufficient to quench their present thirst, and fire them to the end of their journey. Such is the ani mal so often celebrated in the Bible, the Coran, and the cistern romances. Thir Arabs, who live in districts that afford some slender pasture, and where the soil is proper for barley, breed the finest horses in the world. These horses are sent into all parts to improve and multiply the breed of these ani mass, which are every where inferior in swiftness, beauty, and sagacity, to those of Arabia. The masters live with them on the foot of do:nieficl;s, on whose service and as fektioi they can rely: and it happens with them as with all other dispersed people, those, in particular, who treat animals with kindles, that both the men and the animals partake, in some meaflirc of each other's manners and disposition 'These Arabs are simple, mild and docile: and the different religions that have prevailed in there countries and the several governments of which they have been the filbjeAs or tributaries, have produced very little alteration in the character they derive from climate or room habit. TIE Arabs fettled near the Indian and the Red Sea, aid those who inhabit Arabia Felix, were formerly a Vot. I. T mild
° o 0 i mild people, fond of liberty, and content with a tate of'. independence without dreaming of conquest. They were,too much prejudiced in favour of the beauty of their sky, and of the soil that supplied their wants almost without culture to be tempted to extend their dominion over different countries lying in another climate. Mohammed changed their ideas: but they retain no traces of their pulse he gave them. They pass their lives in smoaking, taking coffee, opium and sherbet. These gratifications are preceded or followed by exquisite perfumes that are burnt before them, the smoke of which they receive in their clothes, which are slightly sprinkled with ros water. BEFORE the Portuguese had interrupted the navigation of the Red Sea, the Arabs had more activity. They were the factors of all the trade that passed through the channel Aden, which is situated at the most southern extremity of Arabia upon the Indian ocean, was the mart in there parts. The situation of its harbour which opened an easy communication with Egypt, Ethiopia, India and persia had rendered it, fbr many ages, one of the mol flourishing stories in Asia. Fifteen years after it had repulsed the great Albuquerque, who attempted to demo lii it in 15 3, it submitted to the Turks who did not long remain masters of it. The king of Yemen, who possessed the only district in Arabia that merits the title of happy, drove them from thence, and removed the trade to Mocha, a road in his dominions, which till then sa only a village. THIS trade was at first inconsiderable: consisting prin finally in myrrh, incense, aloes, balm of Mecca, some are. matins and medicinal drugs. These articles, the export. tion of which is continually retarded by exorbitant im. ports, and does not exceed at present 7000,coo livres', was at that time more in repute than they have been since: but must have been always of little consequence,, 3C,:5 t.,Soca
Soon after a great change ensued from the introduction B o o K of coffee. . , THE coffee-tree is originally a native of the higher Ethiopia where it haq been known time immemorial, and is hill cultivated with success. M. Lagrenec de Mezieres, one of the most intelligent agents that France ever had in the India. service, iliad some of the fruit in his possession, and has made a trial of it. He found it to be larger, ra ther longer, not lu glecen, and aloft as fragrant as that which was begun to be gathered in Arabia towards the close of the fifteenth century. IT is commonly believed that a Moloch, named Chastely, was the first among the Arabs, who made use of coffee, to relieve himself from a continual drowsiness which hin tered him from attending punctually to his nightly devotions His Devises did the same: and their example was followed by the gentlemen of the law. It was soon found out, that this liquor purified the blood by a gentle agita tion, dissipated the crudities of the stomach. and raised the spirits: and it was adopted even by those who had no occasion to keep themselves awake. It pasTed from the borders of the Red Sea to Medina, Mecca, and was intro duce by the pilgrims into all the Mohammedan countries. IN there countries where there is less freedom of man news than in ours, where the jealousy of the mien and the close confinement of the women make society less lively, it was thought proper to encourage public coffee-houses. Those in Pera soon became infamous, where young Georgian women, dressed like courtesan, acted obscene plays, and prostituted themselves for hire. When there offensive irregularities were suppressed by order of the court, these houses became places of genteel retort for the indolent, and of relaxation for the busy part of the world. The politicians entertained themselves with news, the poets recited their verses, and the Mollschs, delivered 2 their
B 0 O K their sermons, which were usually rewarded with .ome,IlL,charitable donations. AFFAIRS were not in the same peaceable state at Con. fiantinople. The coffee-houses were no sooner opened than they were frequented to excess. People spent their whole time in them. The grand Mufti, concerned to '-e the Mosques abandoned, pronounced that this in fusion was included in that law of Mohammed, which for bids the use of strong liquors. The government, which frequently aids the superstition of which it is sometimes the dupe, gave immediate orders that the houses which had given such offence to the priests should be filth up; and enjoined the officers of the police to put a flop to the use of this liquor in private families. An inclination so strong still prevailed in spite of all these revere regula tions. Coffee continued to be drunk, and the places where it was to be had, soon grew more numerous than ever. Is the middle of the last age, Kuproii, the Grand Vizir, went in disguise to the principal coffee-houses in Constantinople He there found a number of mal-contents, who, thinking the affairs of government were in reality tic concern of every private person, spoke of them v.i;l warmth, and arraigned with great boldness the conduct of the generals and ministers. He then visited the ta veins, where wine was sold. They were full of plain people clichy soldiers, who, accustomed to consider the interests of the state as those of the prince, for whom they entertained a silent veneration, sung lively songs, talked of their amours, and sl alike exploits. There last societies which vere attended ;birth no inconveniences, it thought ought to be tolerated: but the first he considered as dangerous in an arbitrary state. H!e th'forefr suppressed them, and no attempts have since been m;;de tJ revive them. This regulation, which was confined to the capital of the empire, has not discouraged the use : coffee, and has, perhaps, increased the consumptions ot,it.
it. It is publickly offered to sale in all the streets and B 0 0 K markets ready made, and is drunk in every family at least twice a-day. In some it is always ready, it being the custom to offer it to all visitors, and reckoned equally unpolite not to offer it, or to refuse it. AT the very time that the coffee-houses in Constant. tipple were Shut, they were opened in London. This novelty was introduced there in 165z by a merchant of the name of Edward, who returned from the Levant. The English were fond of it; and it has since been intro duce among all the nations of Europe, but is drank with more moderation than in those climates where religion prohibits the use of wine. THE tree that produces the coffee grows in the territory of Betelfagui, a town belonging to Yemen, situated upon a dry sand at the distance of ten leagues from the Red sea. It is cultivated in a distress fifty leagues long, and fifteen or twenty broad: the fruit is not every where in equal perfection. That which grows upon high ground is smaller, greener, weighs heavier, and is generally pre ferret to the others, IT is computed that Arabia contains twelve millions of inhabitants, among whom, in general, coffee constitutes a favourite article in their entertainments. None but the rich citizens have the pleasure of tasting it in its genuine form. The generality are obliged to content themselves with the shell, and the hulk of this valuable berry. These appendages, so much despised, make a liquor of a pretty clear colour, which has the taste of coffee without its bitterness and strength. These articles may be had at a low price at Betelfagui, which is the general market for them. Here likewise is sold all the coffee which comes out of the country by land. The rest is carried to Mocha, which is thirty-five leagues distant, or to the nearer ports of Loxia or Oneida, from whence it is transported in shall vessels to Iota. The Egyptians fetch it from the,T3 last
B O O K lift mentioned place, and all other nations from the iii former. THE quantity of coffee exported may be estimated at twelve millions five hundred and fifty thousand weight. The European companies take off a million and a half; the Persians three millions and a half; the fleet from Suez fix millions and a half; Hindostan, the Maldives, and the Arabian colonies on the coast of Africa, fifty thousand; and the Caravans a million. As the coffee which is bought up by the Caravans and the Europeans, is the best that can be procured, it coils from sixteen to seventeen fossa a pound. The Persians, who content themselves with that of an inferior quality, pay no more than twelve or thirteen fols b a pound. The Egyptians purchase it at the rate of fifteen or sixteen; their cargoes being composed partly of good and partly of bad coffee. If we estimate coffee at fourteen fold a pound, which is the mean price, the profits accruing to Arabia from its annual exportation will amount to S,75s,oeo livres . This money does not go into their coffers; but it enables them to purchase the commodities brought from the foreign markets to their ports of Jodda and Mocha. MOcHA receives from Abyssinia sheep, elephant's teeth, musk, and slaves. It is supplied from the eastern coast of Africa with slaves, amber, and ivory; from the Persian Gulf with dates, tobacco, and corn; from Surat with a vast quantity of coarse, and a few fine linens; from Bombay and Pondicherry with iron, lead, copper, which are carried thither from Europe; from Malabar with rice, gi ngr, pepper, Indian cameron, with coire, cardamom, and even planks; from the Maldives with gum benzoin, aloes-word, and pepper, which there islands take in ex change; from Coromandel, four or five hundred bales of,* About d. T. About 6d. ó. , About d. ' Ai.ct 7d ,c. 384,3431. 15.,cottons,
cottons, chiefly blue. The greatest part of these commo B O O K cities, which may fetch fix millions a, are consumed in the interior part of the country. The rest, particularly the cottons, find their way to Abyssinia, Socotora, and the eastern coast of Africa. NONE of the branches of business which are managed at Mocha, as well as throughout all the country of Yemen, or even at Santa, the capital, is in the hands of the natives. The extortions with which they are perpetually threatened by the government, deter them from interfering in them. All the warehouses are occupied by the Banians of Surat or Guzerat, who make a point of returning to their own country as soon as they have made their fortune. They then resign their settlements to merchants of their own nation, who retire in their turn, and are succeeded by others. Tir European companies, who enjoy the exclusive privilege of trading beyond the Cape of Good Hope, for merely maintained agents at Mocha. Notwithstanding it was stipulated by a solemn capitulation that the imports demanded should be rated, at two and a quarter per cent. they were subject to frequent extortions, The go vernon of the place insisting on their making him precepts, which enabled him to purchase the favour of the courtiers, or even of the prince himself. However the profits they obtained by the sale of European goods, particularly cloths, inclined them to submit to these repeated humiliations. When these several articles were furnished by grand Cairo, it was then impossible to withstand the competition and the fixed settlements were therefore given up. THe trade is carried on by the ships that fail from Eu. rope with iron, lead, copper, and silver, sufficient to pay for the coffee they intend to buy. The supercargoes, who have the care of these transactions, fettle matters every voyage. There expeditions, which at first were pretty,2z6z.5ol. T 4 numerous
B o O K numerous and advantageous, have been successively laid,' .- aside. The plantations of coffee, made by the Europcan,nations in their colonies, have equally lessened the col. gumption and the price of that which comes from Arabia. At the long run, there voyages did not yield a sufficient profit to answer the high charges of direct expeditions. The companies of England and France then resolved one of them to send ships from Bombay, and the other from Pondicherry to Mocha, with the merchandise of Europe and India. They even frequently had recourse to a me thod that was less expensive. The English and French who traffic from India to India, visit the Red Sea every year. Though they dispose of their merchandise there to good advantage, they can never take in cargoes from thence for their return. They carry, for a moderate freight, the coffee belonging to the companies who lade the vessels with it, which they dispatch from Malabar and Coromandel to Europe. The Dutch company, who pro habit their servants from having armaments, and who fit out no expeditions themselves for the Arabic Gulph, are deprived of the flare they might take in this branch of commerce. They have also given up a much more lucrative branch, that of lodda. lodi is a port situated near the middle of the Arabic Gulph, twenty leagues from Jerusalem. The government there is of a mixed kind: the Grand Seignior and the Xerii of Mecca Share the authority and the revenue o. the customs between them. These imposts are levied upon the Europeans at the rate of eight per cent. and upon ether nations at thirteen. They are always paid in merchandise which the managers oblige the merchants o: the country to buy at a very dear rate. The Turks, who have been driven from Aden, Mocha, and every part ot the Yemen, would long ego have been expelled from lodda, if. ther had not b:cn room tp apprehend that they might,revenge
revenge themselves in such a manner as to put an end to B 0 0 K their pilgrimages and commerce. SURAT sends three ships every year to lodda, which are laden with linens of all colours, shawls, cotton and silk stuffs, frequently ornamented with gold and silver flowers. The sale of these goods produces ten millions of livres a. Two, and oftener three vessels belonging to the English, fail from Bengal for the same destination. They are fitted out by the free merchants of that nation. Formerly their company had concerns there; at present these merchants have no associates but the Armenians. These united car goes may be estimated at seven millions two hundred thou find livres b. They consist of rice, ginger, saffron, sugar, a few silk stuffs, and a considerable quantity of linens, which are for the moll part ordinary. These vessels, which may enter the Mediterranean from the beginning of December till the end of May find the fleet of Suez at lodda. THIS fleet commonly consists of fourteen or fifteen vessels laden with corn, rice, and pulse, for the use of Ara bia. They carry out for Asia Venetian glass-ware, coral, yellow-amber, of which the Indians make necklaces and bracelets. They arrive together in October, and return together in February, with fix million five hundred thou fend weight of coffee, and with linens or stuffs to the value of seven millions of livres c. Though they have only two hundred leagues to fail to regain their posh, they employ two months in the voyage; being retarded by the north wind which blows continually in this sea. Their ignorance is such, that though they are accustomed to call anchor every night, they think themselves fortunate when they lose only the sixth part of their Ships. If to there losses we add the great expence of their armaments, the excessive imposts demanded at Suez, and the unavoidable ex portions of a government that oppresses all industry, we,437,5co0l. 3,0.oo. 3c6,25ol.,shall
B o O K shall be convinced that, in the present situation of things the correspondence between Europe and India by this channel is impracticable. THE merchandise brought from Surat and Bengal, which the Egyptian fleet does not take off, is partly con. fumed in the country, and bought in great quantities by the caravans, which come every year to Mecca. THE Arabs had ever entertained an affection for this city. They thought it had been the residence of Abraham,, and they flocked from all parts to a temple, of which they believed he was the founder. Mohammed, who was a m;!n of too much understanding to attempt to abolish a devotion so generally established, contented himself with rectifying the object of it. He banished the idols from this revered place, and dedicated it to the unity of God. Mohammed was not the messenger of heaven ; hut he was an acute politician, and a great conqueror. To promote the con course of strangers to a city which he intended to make the capital of his empire, he commanded that all who en. braced his law should once in their lives undertake a pi!. grimace thither, on pain of dying reprobates. Ths; precept was accompanied with another, which makes it evident, that he was not guided by superstition alone. He ordered that every pilgrim, of whatever country he was, should purchase five pieces of cotton, and get them consecrated and made into handkerchiefs for himself, and all the persons belonging to his family, who were prevented by reasonable impediments, from undertaking this holy expedition. THIS policy might naturally be expected to make Ara bia the center of a prodigious trade, when the number o pilgrim fiioulid n'cuinlt to frverai millions. This zealis si much abated c>ciil;- , :i . , I-aft of Africa, in ti titan and Persia, in proportion to the rcfpelcive distant ces of those places from Mecca, that the number is redit cc to a hut:drcd and fifty thousand: of which the Tiurh,3 n
make the greatest part. They carry away with them B 0 0 K seven hundred and fifty thousand pieces of linen; each ten ells in length, exclusively of those which many of then buy for sale. They are encouraged in there mer cantle schemes, by the advantages they have in crossing the deserts, and in not being exposed to those oppressive tolls which arc so destructive in the sea-ports of Suez and Baffora. The money received from these pilgrims and from the fleet, and by the Arabs from the sale of coffee, is expended in India. The vessels from Surat, Malabar, Coromandel, and Bengal, annually carry away 14,400,000 hires a, and about tho eighth pal t of this sum in merchant's When thee riches come to be divided among the trading nations of Europe, the most considerable share is appropriated by the English. They have acquired the same superiority in Persia. THE English nation had scarce been admitted into the Gras empire of the Sophia, when, as we have observed, the Dutch viewy of estrade in ths resorted there in great numbers. The trade of there re Perrin publicans was at first established on a very disadvantageous Gulph, ands hat f the footing; but being, by the civil wars of England, loon Englhlhio delivered from a rival whose various privileges were not to par""cur. leo overbalanced even by the greatest oeconomy, they were in a short tile without competitors, and consequently ac quire an authority to set what price they thought proper on the commodities they bought or sold. The connections of the persians with the Dutch were founded on this.dcftreuaive system; when the return of the English, who were soon after followed by the French, gave a new turn to affairs and put them upon a more equitable footing. AT the time when the three nations exerted their ut most efforts to gain the superiority, and these efforts turned to the advantage of the empire, they were har railed with a thousand oppressions, some more unjust ald,6jccol,,odious
B O O K odious than the rest. The throne was continually filled will,, tyrannical or weak princes, whose cruelty and injustice weakened the correspondence of their subjects with othe nations. One of these tyrants was so savage, that a great man of his court used to say, That whenever he came oti of the king's closet he clapped both his hands to his head t feel whether it was hill upon h)ishioulders. When his suc censor was told that the fines provinces in the empire wer invaded hy the lurks, he answered coldly, That the, progress gave him very little disturbance, provided they would leave bim the city oJ jij)ahan. His son was so meanly en glared to the mill trisilous observances of his religion that he was Itihld, by way of derision, Hussein the monk or priest: a character 1l' odious, perhaps, in a prince but much more dangerous to his people, than that of im. piety, or defiance of the gods. Under these despicable sovereigns, mercantile affairs every day declined more ana more at Gombroon. The Afghans reduced them to nothing THESE are a people of Kandahar, a mountainous coin. try, lying north of India. They have sometimes been subject to the Mogul, filnetimes to the Persians, hu more frequently independent. Those that do not reid in the capital like in tents, after the manner of the l':ar tars. They are of low stature and ill made; but are nor vous, robust, killed in the use of the bow, and in hors( manship, and inured to fatigue. Their manner of fight ing is singular; picked soldiers, divided into two troop: fall upon the enemy without any order, only endeavour ing to open the way for the army that follows them. A soon as the battle is begun, they retire to the flanks an rear-guard, where their Ixhfinrefs is to prevent any pers from giving way. If any soldier attempt to fly, they a tack him with their lfbrcs, and compel him to rcfimeii ranks. ABOUT the Beginning of the century, this fierce col left their mountains, poulet into Persia, carried devail,tin
tion every where, and at length subdued it, after a carnage B O K of twenty years. Fanaticism prolonged the horrid out sages with which they were stained in their course of their coquet. Ant insatiable zeal for the Trllkifli superstition, ant an unconquerable aversion for the sect of All, prompted them to massacre thousands of Persans in cold blood. In the inca time, the provinces they had not entered, were ravaged by the Ruffians, Turks, and Tartars. Thomas Kouli-Klian drove these robbers out of this country, but shewed Himself still more barbarous than they. His violent death gave birth to new calamities. Anarchy ag graves the cruelties of tyranny. One of the finest,em- pires ii the world, is become an extensive scene of desolation and a lasting and shameful monument of that de intrusive instinct that animates uncivilized people, and is at the famine time an incvsi;:ble colnflirlece of the vices of despotic guvornimelt. DuVtix this general consilio, the Englflir ales in Pera consisted of io more than a hundred bales of woollen goods, two hundred thousand sleight of iron, and the lame quantity of lead. These articles, taken together, broglie their no more than from twelve to thirteen hundred thousand livres c paid ih money. This deadness of trade determined the company to follow the example of Their rivals, and to seek those advantages at Baffora, which they could not obtain at Gombroon. B.ssORA is a large city, built by the Arabs, in the heights of their prosperity, fifteen leagues below the place where the Tigris and Euphrates meet, and at the same distance fioml the Persian Gulph, into which tlhre rivers difenbogue themselves. Its inhabitants are computed at fifty thousand; consisting of Arabs, fitted hundred Ar menials, and a shall number of families of different na tions tl who the hope of gain has attracted hither. Its,* 5 ,: '. I'-:terri,tcrritory
B 0 0 K territory abounds in rice, fruits, pulse, cotton and parti iii. U^ i clearly in dates the port of Baffora, as those who first established it foresaw, became a famous mart. The merchandise of Europe was brought thither by the Euphrates, and that of India by sea. The tyranny of the Portuguese inter. accepted this communication. It would have been opened again when their power declined, had not this unhappy country continually been the scene of the disputes between the Arabs, the Persians, and the Turks. This lath poter being in quiet possession of this harbour, have availed themselves of the troubles of their neighbours to renew the trade. The mercantile business, which was before transacted at Gombroon, is at present centered at Baffora, which has recovered its credit and importance this change has not been effected without difficulty. At first the people of the country were desirous of con fining the traders to the river. They foresaw, that if there foreigners were permitted to fettle in the city; they would not be so much under their direction, and might lay up in their magazines such of their commodities as they could not sell during one monsoon, with a view of disposing them with greater advantage at another time. To this maxim, which was the result of an ill-judged avarie, were added others arising from superstitious notions. It was deemed a violation of the refpc;c idle to religio lt permit infidels to inhabit a city, consecrated by the bled of so many martyrs and faints of the Mohammedan per. suasion. 'his pircudicc seen;cd to have for weigh: with the government. Theft scruples were overdo:. Pecuniary considerations were ore-cd by these nation, and they were allowed to establish fao;'ics, and mien a diip!2y their receive flags belonging to their country. Revolution s are so frequent in Asia, that trade ca: rot poibly be carried on in the fame continued tra: that it is in Europe. le. cvi;!t . ruined to thelit,coWni'
communication subsisting between the different states by B O o K sea and land, must naturally occasion great variations in the quantity and value of commodities. Baffora, on ac count of its great distance from the center of business, is more exposed to this inconvenience than any other place. However, upon an average, we may, without fearing to be very wide of the truth, venture to estimate the merchandise annually brought by way of the gulph, at twelve millions a. Of this the English furnish four millions b, the Dutch two c; the Moors, Banians, Arme nians and Arabs, furnish the remainder. THE cargoes of these nations consist of rice, sugar, plain, Striped and flowered muslins from Bengal, spices from Ceylon, and the Molucca islands; coarse white and blue cottons from Coromandel; cardan, pepper, fan ders-wood, from Malabar; gold and silver stuffs, turbans, shawls, indigo, from Surat; pearls from Baharen, and coffee from Mocha; iron, lead, and woollen-cloth from Europe. Other articles of less consequence are imported from different places. Some of these commodities are shipped on board small Arabian vessels, but the greater part is brought by European ships, which have the advantage of a considerable freight. Tuis merchandise is sold for ready money; and passes through the hands of the Greeks, Jews, and Armenians. The current money is converted at BalTura, by the Banians, into specie that passes better in India. Tir different commodities collect ar Baffora, are distributed into three channels. One half of them goes to Persia, where they are conveyed by the Caravans: there being no navigable river in t.h whole empire. The chief consumption is in the northern provinces, which have not been so much ravaged as those in the south. Both of them formerly made their payments in precious fronts, which "ere become common by the plunder of India. They,had
B 0 0 K had afterwards recourse to copper utensils, which their mines furnished in great abundance. At present they give gold and silver in exchange, which had been con ceased during a long scene of tyranny, and are constantly dug out of the bowels of the earth. If they do not al low time for the trees that produce gum and have been cut, to make fresh shoots; if they neglect to multiply the breed of the goats which afford such fine wool; and if the folks which are hardly sufficient to supply the few ma. nufadAurers remaining in Persia continue to be so scarce; if this empire does not rise again from its ashes, the mines will be exh-auifd, and this source of commerce must be given up. THEs second channel is a more sure one, by the way of Bagdad, Aleppo, and other intermediate towns, whole merchants come to buy their goods at Baffora. Coffee, linen, spices, and other merchandise that pass this way, are taken in exchange for gold, French woollen-cloths, galls, and orpiment which is an ingredient in colours, and much used by the eastern people in extirpating hair from their bodies. AXOTHFRi much less considerable channel is that of Arabia Deserta. The Arabs, bordering upon Baffora, repair annually to Aleppo in the spring, to sell their ca melts. It is usual to give them credit for muffins to the amount of fix hundred thousand livres, which they buy very cheap. They return in the autumn, bringing woollen cloths, coral, hard-ware, and some glass and mirrors from Venice. The Arabian Caravans never meet with any in corruption in their journey; nor are foreigners in any danger, if they take care to carry along with them a per son belonging to each of the tribes they may happen to meet with. This road through the desert would be uni verbally preferred to that of Bagdad, on account of safety, expedition, and the advantages of sale, if the Pacha of the province, who has established tolls in different parts,of
of his territory, did not use every possible precaution to B 0'0 K- hinder this communication. It is only, y eluding the vigilance of his deputies, that one can prevail upon the Arabs to carry with them some goods, which will not take up much room. Bes DES these exportations, there is a pretty large con fumption,.efpecially of coffee, at Affirm, and the territories belonging to it. These articles are paid for in dates, pearls, role-water, dried fruits, and grain when that is allowed to be disposed of to foreigners. THIS trade would be more extensive if it were freed from the shackles that confine it. But the activity that might be expected from the natives of the country is continually damped by the oppressions they labour un der, especially at a distance from the center of the em pire. The foreigners are no less distressed by the govern ors, whose extortions furnish them with the means of keeping their posts, and frequently of preserving their lives. Were it possible in some measure to foliage this thirty of gold, it would soon be renewed by the rivalry of the European nations, whose role aim is to Supplant one another, and, who, to gain their ends, scruple not to em ploy the most execrable expedients. A striking instance of this odious spirit ofjealbufy happened in 1748. Baron Khyphaufen managed the Dutch factory at Bas fora with extraordinary success. The English found themselves in imminent danger of losing the superiority they had acquired at this place as well as in most of the sea-ports in India. The dread of an event which must wound at the same time their interests and their vanity betrayed them into injustice. They excited the Turkish government to suppress a branch of trade that was use fail to it, and procured an order for the confiscation of the merchandise and possessions of their rivals. THE Dutch factor, who under the character of a mer chant, concealed the tatcfinan, instantly took a resolution VOL. I. U worthy
B O O K worthy of a man of genius. He retired with his dependents and the broken remains of his fortune to Karek, a small Sand at the distance of fifteen leagues from the mouth of the river: where he fortified himself in such a manner, that by intercepting the Arabian and Indian vessels, bound for the city, he compelled the government to grant him an indemnification for the losses he had ful' gained by its behaviour. The same of his integrity and abilities drew to his sand the privateers of the neighbour. ing parts, the very merchants of Baffora and the Euro. plans who traded thither. This new colony found it, prosperity increase every day, when it was abandoned by its founder. The successor of this able man did not display the same talents. Towards the end of the year 1765 he suffered himself to be dispossessed of his island by the Arabian Corsair Mirmahana. The company have lost an important post, and more than two millions A in artillery, provisions and merchandise. BY this event Baffora was freed from a rivalry that as prejudicial to its interests; but an unforeseen and much more formidable one has succeeded in its room, which ii that of Mufkat. Mufkat is a city in Arabia, situated on the western side of the Persian gulph. The great Albuquerque made himself master of it in 1507, and ruined its trade, which he wanted to transfer wholly to Ormus. When the Por. tuguefe had lost this small kingdom, they were desirous of reviving the trade at Mufkat, of which they still kept possession. Their endeavours proved ineffectual; and the merchants bent their course to Gon:broon. They dreaded the insolence of the old tyrants of India; and were un willing to rely upon their fidelity. No vessels entered the harbour except those brought by themselves. It real d to be frequented by the ships of every nation, after the: imperious mr.aftrs were driven from it in 1648. Thei:,*S7,3.o1.,pnti,
pride getting the better of their self-interest, made them B 0 O K no longer desirous of going thither: and had still power sufficient to prevent any lips from entering or going out. THE declension of their power tempted the inhabitants of Mulkat to the same acts of piracy, to which they had long been exposed. They made descents upon the coasts of their ancient oppressors ; and the success they met with encouraged them to attack the finally Moorish and Euro pean veils that frequented the Persian gulph. But they were To severely chastised for their depredations by several nations, and especially by the English, that they were obliged to desist. From that period the city remained in a fate of neglect, which was prolonged for a considerable time by intestine broils, and foreign invaior:s. At length the government assuming a more regular form at Mufkat, and in the v.hole country, under the jurisdiction of its inn, its commerce began to revive about the year 1749. THE articles of consumption in the country itfeifare rice, blue linens, iron, lead, sugar, and fine spices; the returns for which are made in myrrh, i cease, gum-aras bic, and a small quantity of hiver. This consumption, however, would not be considerable enough to invite ships hither, if l\Muilt, which is situated pretty near the entrance of tie persian fca, were not an excellent mart for the innermost part of the gulph. All trading nations begin to give it the preference to Baf'ora; be cause it makes their voyage shorter by three months; they are free from any kind of extortion; and imports are lowered to one and a half per cent. The merchandise, indeed, is afterwards to be carried to Afford, where it pays a tax of three per cent. but the Arabs make such ad vantage of their boats, and have so many methods of eluding the tolls, that they will always find their account in disposing of their goods at Mu'fl;at. Besides this, the dates, Switch are produced at Bafibra in.greater plenty and,U 2 perfection
B 0 0 K perihelion than any other article, and are often spoilt,IlL,on board large vessels that fail slowly, are brought with the utmost expedition in light barks to Malabar, and the Red Sea. There is a particular reason which will always determine the English, who trade for them. selves, to frequent Mlulkat. They are there exempted from the five per cent. which they are obliged to pay at Baffora, as well as at all other places where their company have made settlements. Thei company have never attempted to establish them. selves on the island of Baharen; which we are at a loss to account for. This island which lies in the Persian Gulph, has often changed its masters. It sell, with Ormus, un der the cognition of the Portuguese, and was governed by the same laws. These conquerors were afterwards de privet of it, and it has since undergone a variety of re solutions. Thomas Kouli Khan restored it to Persia to which it had belonged. This haughty usurper at that time conceived the plan of an extensive authority. He wanted to make himself master of two seas, some coasts of which he already possessed: but finding that his sub. jews opposed his design instead of favouring it, he had recourse to one cf those arbitrary aCs which tyrants make no scruple of exercising, and transported his subjects in the Persian Gulph to the Caspian Sea, and those in the Caspian Sea to the Persian Gulph. He looked upon ths. double transmigration as the necessary means of breaking the connections which both these people had formed with his enemies, and of securing their fidelity, if he could not engage their attachment. His death put a period to hi; vast designs: and the confusion into which his empire was thrown, atiurded a fair opportunity to an ambitious ard enterprizing Arab of taking possession of Baharen, wher: he still maintains his authority. THIS island, famous for its pearl fishery even at the tine when ptcrlis wert found at Ormus, Karek, Kih:y,,and
tod other places in the Gulph, is now become of much B o K greater consequence; the other banks having been ex y j hauled, while those near it have suffered no sensible diminution The time of filling begins in April, and ends in October. It is confined to a trap of furor five leagues. The Arabs who alone follow this employment, pass their nights upon the island or the coast, unless they are prevented by the wind from going on shore. They formerly paid a toll which was received by the galliots on that station. Since the last changes, none but the inhabitants of tl:s blind pay this acknowledgment to their chief, who is not in a condition to demand them from others. THe pearls taken at Baharen, though not so white as hose of Ceylon and Japan, are much larger than thole of the former place, and of a more regular shape than those of the lather. They are of a yellowish cast; but have this recommendation, that they preserve their golden hue; whereas the whiter kind lose much of their lustre by keeping, particularly in hot countries. The hill of both these species, which is known by the name of mother of pearl, is used( in ,fia for various purposes. THE annual revenue, ailing roll the fishery in the la latitude of Baharen, is computed at 3,6oo,coo livres a. The greatest part of the pearls that are uneven, are carried to Constantinople, and other ports of Turky; where the larger compose part of the ornaments of the head-dress, said the smaller are insect in v works of embroidery. The perse pearls are of course reserved for Surat, from whence they are distributed throughout all Hindostan. The women have so strong a pillion for luxury, and the sale of this ar ticle.is so much increased by superstition, that there is not the least reason to apprehend any diminution cither in the price or the demand. There are none of the Gentiles who do not make a point of rcligi,,n to bore at leal one pearl at the time of their marriage. Whatever may be,· i57,;cl. U 3 :he
B O 0 K( the myrftlious meaning of this custom among a people whose morality and politics are couched in allegories, or where allegory becomes religion; this emblem of virgin modesty has proved advantageous to the pearl trade, The pearls that have not newly been bored, make a part of dress; hut cannot have a place in the :marriage ceremony, ;iicrc une new pearl at left is i:.di!'pci:b'. They arc accordingly allays sold hf.c and twenty or thirty her c-ilt. cheaper thl.u tho;: brought fl o. the iG gulph where tlleya e taken. There are no pearls at Ma liar: but i; has riche of another kind. c:,,!-:.l MiiAAi^ , is, properly speaking, :a country situated !i' ,, .fe between C"i.c-f;i;.ori:, and tie river ns Neticcraii. Blu: : ;-.- to har e our narrative L:hc bc:ucr understood by accost ,t . inodai; g it to the notions gcl;rally received in Europe's., ; : - ime; this name 1t ti;, whole tract extending from ' ' the lid to Cape Cuomoeii, i chucking the adjacent islands, and beginning with the Mealtimes. TH£ ilaldivei form a Iog chain of islands to the v.'ee of Cape Comorin, sh!ich is the nearest part of the Terra Firma. They ac di:;dicd into thirteen provinces, which-re c called apollo;. 'i h., (::Nvi!'i : i; the work of nature. n'aich h-s firro;or: cd etch at(!ii!: illic al barrier of rocks, which is a better (i.icticc than th bit mortification against the impletoility cf the Saves, or :he attics of an enemy. The natives conil:;:tc the ;:lhbc;r c :!;cfi i icnds at twelve thousand; the fi-ai!:fl of i\ ;ici al ::'rliirg more than banks of sand that ;:t. o,:crtiHie d at high tides, and the largest very fr.:.ll in cc ::;ifr;;;ce. Of all the channels that li arac:e them, ;h.'c are only .a::r capai!c of re. ceiling fil ,. T'fic rec are fia " .s:1los;, that they i-vc .qI- dom snore t,':n riree sc v.: te:-. It is co;:ie.lurcd, 'hir pr barb lias, that ;11 th ei'ci 'l.ercnt iris:: has wl:r Tre i;':l ore, and itiat the force es the ways.; 'sid ci-rrl'lts, (.e r feitl :.at,s.att;;'a. :'.:It 'lai cliv;:.l '.hcm ') :u several po-tian.
IT is probable, that this Archipelago was originally II 0 K peopled from Malabar. Afterwards the Arabians failed t . thither, usurped the sovereignty, and established their own religion. The two nations united together: when tie l'ortiugefc, non after their arrival in India, reduced thei illo filbjieion. This tyranny was of short conti nuilce. The garrison which held them in slavery was exterminated, and the Maldives recovered their independence Since this period they have fallen under the yoke of an arbitrary prince, who keeps his court at M'i.!e, and has resigned the whose authority to the priests. lie is the sole fine chant in Isis dominions. Ax administrations of this stamp, and the barrenness of the country which produces nothing but cocoa-trees, hinder the trade from being confiderable. The exports c.iift only of cow ries, fils and kayar. Bayard is the bark of tic cocoa-tree, of which cables are made, which fcrvc for the Indian navigation. This is no where fiT good, and in such plenty as its the Maldi-ve. A great quantity is carried together with cowries to Ceylon, where thes congo politics are exchanged for the arekk:l nut. THE fist called in tile country, c.anplcmaffc, is dried' in the fun. It is silted by plunging it several times into the sea; and cut into pieces of the thickness and henri of a man's finger. Cargoes of it are ianuallsl brought to Achenn, which are purchased sith gold and benzoin. The gold goes no farther than the Bailies; and the beliioiln iL fnt to Mocl:ls, wnicre it procx'irs in return about tlirec hundred bales of coils for the cnfi;iilption of tliclc iliad. CowRIES are i nd ite and fliinir shells. They f.fia ior thei tn ice a lionel; three day>,a Lore the ne v noon, and three days aller. This enrpli. sent belongs to tl.c woiencn, who wide to the ndtle l in water to g:ilshcr ti'ein iliO;l the finds. T' ar pt p i are lut rp in parcels contai. ciig,U 5 . - :t;' , c
B O o K twelve thousand. Those that are not circulated in the,Ill- country, or carried to Ceylon, are sent to the banks lethe Ganges. A great number of vessels annually fail from this river, laden with sugar, rice, linen, and other levi considerable articles for the use of the Maldives, and re turn with a cargo of cowries valued at about 700oo,c livres a. One part is circulated in Bengal, where it servi as small coin. The rest is taken off by the Europeans, who turn it to account in their trade with Africa. They buy it at fix fols b a pound, and sell it from twelve to eighteen in their several capitals: it is worth thirty-five i in Guinea. THE kingdom of Travancore, which extends from Cape Comorin to the frontiers of Cochin, was formerly little more opulent than the Maldives. It is probable that it owed the preservation of its independency to its poverty, when the Moguls made themselves rioters of Madura. The present monarch's father added more dignity to his crown than any of his predecessors. He was a man of great abilities. One of the neighbouring states had sent him two ambassadors, one of whom began a long ha range, which the other was preparing to continue. Be net ted.,os, life is sirs. said the prince, with an austere brow. He formed a froall bed.' of troops of the French and Portuguese deserters, which, in time of peace, did duty in the citadel of Kotatc, with as much regularity as our garrisons, and were of signal service in enlarging his dominions in time of war. The interior parts of his country were benefited by his conquests, a circumstance that rarely happens. He established there large cotton manufactures, which were sold at first to the Dutch at Tutocerin-nd were afterwards carried to the English factory at Anjengo. '30,6251. ' About jd. c Near Sd. on an average. e I5 1i 5. 7d. .,THEai
Sert are two European settlements in the kingdom B 0 o K,II'. of Travancore: that of the Danes at Kolechey is nothing L more than a small storehouse, where they might never theseus be regularly supplied with two hundred thousand weight of pepper. Such is their indolence, or their po very, that they have made but one purchase, and that only of a very small quantity, these ten years. THE English factory at Anjengo has four small bastions without ditches, and a garrison of a hundred and fifty black and white men. It is situated on a sandy point of land at the mouth of a small river, which is three-fourths of the year choaked up with sand. Its village is well peopled and a variety of trades are exercised there. This settlement is, in general, more lucrative to the agents of the company who buy pepper, large cinnamon, and very gocdi kayar, on their account, than to the company them selves, who trade only for fifty thousand weight of pepper, and foe linens of small value. COcHIS was a place of great note when the Portuguese arrived in India. They made themselves masters of it, and were afterwards dispossessed by the Dutch. The sovereign, when he lost it, had prefers-ed his dominions, which, in the space of twenty-five years, have been re repeatedly invaded by the kingdom of Travancore. His misfortunes have obliged him to retire under the walls of his ancient capital, where he lives upon a revenue of 14,400 livres a, which was stipulated to be paid him by ancient capitulations, out of the produce of his customs. In the same suburb is a colony of industrious Jews, who are white men, and idly pretend to have been fettled here at the time of the Babylonian captivity, but have certainly been so a very long time. A town encompassed with ser tile lands, and built upon a river that receives vessels of five hundred tons burthen, and communicates by several navigable branches to the interior parts of the country, a.gy naturally be expected to be in a flourishing condition,* 63o1.,If
B o o K If it is otherwise, the'blame gulf lie on the oppressive nature of the government. THIS malignant spire is at leaf as sensibly felt at Ca cut: all nations are admitted thither, but none have t ascendent. The sovereign who resigns there at present a Brain. This is almost the only throne in India that filled by a person of this first class. In other places t crown is worn by the inferior classes; and even by peri of such obscure origin, that their domcneics would be i honoured and banished from their tribes, if they conc seeded even to eat with their monarchs. These prop take care not to boats of sipping with the king: this p judice is net, perhaps, more ridiculous than any othe It humbles rhe pride of princes, and cures courtiers o piece of vanity. Such is the influence of superstition: is this that gives rise to the universal prevalence of oj)inio By superstition artifice divides the empire with po:c when the latter has conquered and enslaved the wor the former interposes and prescribes laws in its tur they enter into a league with each other, mankind f prostrate, and submit to their chains. Accordingly Bramins, who are the depositaries of religion and the fences through utlIndofian, are every where employed the Rajah as miriitcrs or secretaries of ftaec, and m; what arrangements they think proper; but affairs are the better managed on that account. THE administration of Calicut is bad in general, that of the capital still worse. No police is established, fortifications are raised. The trade, which is clogged v a multiplicity of imposts, is almost entirely in the ia of a few of the most abandoned and faithless Moor Asia. One of its greatest advantages is, that by the r Biypore, which is only at two leagues distance, it the means of being furnished with teak timber, xls grows upon the plains and mountains in great ab diance.,a T
THE territories that border upon Calicut, and belong B O O K to the House of Colaltry, arc little known; except by the i French colony at Mahe, which is gathering fresh strength, and that of the English. at Tellecherry, which has met with no disaster. The latter has a fort flanked with four bas tions without ditches, a garrison of three hundred Euro means, five hundred spahis, and inhabitants to the amount of about fifteen thousand. The company to which it belongs receives from it annually fifteen hundred thousand pound weight of pepper. IF we except a few principalities that scarce deserve mention, the states we have been describing properly con statute the whole of the Malabar coast, a country more agre-azbc than opulent. The exports are few, besides aron'.atics and spices. The principal articles are landers wood, Indian saffron, cardamom, ginger, bastard cinna mon, and pepper. THE tantalus or anders grows to the size of a walnut tree; the fruit, which in some degree resembles a cherry, is of no value. The wood, which is better in Malabar thin in any other place except Kanara, where it grows in fill higher perfection, is either red, yellow, or white. From the two last kinds an oil is cxtraaed, with which the Chinese, Indians, Persians, Arabians and Turks anoint their bodies. It is likewise burnt in their houses, and yields a fragrant and wholesome finely. The red sanders is !leaf eiteerred, and is scarce ever used butin medicine. THE Indian saffron, called by the physicians curcuma, is a plant with leaves resembling those of the white helle bore; the flower is of a fine purple colour, and the fruit has, ike our chesnuts a rough coat containing the feed, which is round like a pea. The root, which has a bitter talc, and has long been eftciemid of an aperient quality, was formerly used as a remedy for the jaundice. The Indians make a yellow die of it, and it is an ingredient ia roll oi their difles.,THE
B O K THE cardamom is a grain generally used in Indian ra,IlL I , gusts: it propagates itself without sowing or plan tina nothing more is required than, as loon as the rainy fcs son is over, to set fire to the herb that hrs produced ii It is often mixed with arekka and betel, and sometime chewed afterwards. The most esteemed fort, which i shall, grows in the territory of Cananor; it is used medicine chiefly to help digestion, and to strengthen th stomach. GINGER is a plant whose root is white, tender, and a' molt as pungent to the palate as pepper. The Indian put it into their rice, which is their common diet, to coi rest its natural insipidity. This spice, mixed with other gives the dishes seasoned with it a strong taste, which extremely disagreeable to strangers. The Europeans, ho ever, who come to Aria without fortunes, are obliged accustom themselves to it. The others adopt it out c complaisance to their wives, who are generally natives c the country. It is here, as well as in all other place! much easier for the men to conform to the tastes an foibles of the women, than to get the better of their Perhaps too the climate may require this manner c living. BASTARD cinnamon, known in Europe by the name c cassia ligne, is to be had at Timor, Java, and Mindanao but that which grows on the Malabar coast is inch supt prior. The Dutch, despairing of their power to extirpate the trees in the forests that produce it, sell upon the exp: tient during their superiority in Malabar, of compelling the sovereigns of the country to give up their right i bark them. This prohibition, which was never firth complied with, has been less so since the nation that mad it has lost its authority, and the price of the cinnamon s Ceylon has been advanced in consequence of that mcaurn The present produce at Malabar may be computed two hundred thousand weight. The least part of it,broug!
brought to Europe, where it is sold for the best fort by B C 0 o,Il. merchants who are not very honest; the rest is sent over t. all India, where it fells from twenty to twenty-five fols a a pound, though it costs no more than fix b. The trade is entirely in the hands of the free English merchants; it may admit of improvement, but will never come near that of pepper. THe pepper-plant is a (grub whose root is small, fibrous, and flexible; it rises into a stem, which requires a tree or a prop to support it. Its wood has the same fort of knots as the vine; and when it is dry, it exaaly resembles the vine-branch. The leaves, which have a strong smell and a pungent taste, are oval; but diminish towards the ex trinity, and terminate in a point. From the flower-buds, which are white, and are sometimes placed in the middle and sometimes at the extremity of the branches, are pro duce small berries resembling those of the currant-tree. Each of these contains between twenty and thirty corns of pepper; they are commonly gathered in October, and exposed to the fun seven or eight days. The fruit, which was green at first, and afterwards red, when stripped of its covering, becomes rich as we see it. The largest, heaviest, and leap shrivelled, is the best. THE pepper-plant flourishes in the islands of Java, Su mara, and Ceylon, and more particularly on the Malabar coast. It is not sown, but planted; and great nicety is required in the choice of the shoots. It produces no fruit till the end of three years; but bears so plentifully the three succeeding years, that some plants yield between fix and seven pounds of pepper. The bark then begins to shrink; and the Shrub declines so fast, that in twelve years time it ceases bearing. THE culture of pepper is not difficult; it is only necessary to plant it in a rich soil, and that the weeds that grow in great abundance round its roots be carefully pulled up,' From oat. to about lid. About 3d.,especially
B o 0 K especially the three firil years. As the fun is highly newel,, far to the growth of the pepper-plant, when it is read to bear, the trees that support it must be lopped to prt vent their shade from injuring the fruit. When the feast is over, it is proper to prune the plant quite to the top Without this precaution there would be too much wood and little fruit. THE pepper exported from Malabar, which was for merely entirely in the hands of the Portuguese, and' : present divided between the Dutch, English, and French amounts to about ten millions weight. At ten fols pounds it is worth five millions: it is exported, v:: other productions, for half that sum. By the face or thei commodities the country is enabled to purchase rice from the Ganges and Kanara, coarse linens from Mysore ar Bengal, and several goods sent from Europe. The p^: ments in money amount to little or nothing. Kara, a country bordering upon Malabar proper so called, was formerly more opulent. It was an alios inexhaustible granary of rice; but has been much on th decline since it Submitted to the yoke of Heyder-Aly-Khan The trade of this state, which was carried on free,; Mangulore the capital, is intirely engrossed by the coi queror, who refuses to let those have goods that do no furnish him with arms, powder and ammunition. Tl Portuguese are the only people exempted from this law who having formerly been males of this province, ha' always retained one store-house which supplies Goa. THE commerce that invited Venice from her canals an Amsterdam from her marshes, had rendered Goa the ten ter of the riches of India, and the most celebrated ma in the world. It is now reduced to nothing, though d fended by two thousand European soldiers, a company artillery, five thousand spahis, and costs the state anna ally thirteen or fourteen hundred thousand livres'. Sc' d. bt 2:3-cl. c About 59,00o on n erage.,pcr)' titi
petition, the Autos da Fe, and the monks extinguish all B o0 o desire of seeing it restored to its former state. Deprived I of so many fertile provinces, which implicitly obeyed its laws, it has nothing remaining but the small island on which it is built, and the two peninsulas that form its harbour. NEAR a century ago a power was established by sea and land to the north of Goa, the growth of which was not foreseen by any body. The name of the founder of it was Donna Ji Anglia. He made himself mailer of the small island of Severndroog, where he served as a soldier, and built a light vessel on which he embarked as a pirate. At sirs he confined his attacks to the Moorish or Indian vessels trading upon that coast. His success, experience, and the number of adventurers whom the same of his courage and generosity invited to join him, enabled him to engage in the greatest enterprizes. By degrees he ac quire a dominion extending forty leagues over the sea, and between twenty and thirty miles over land, accord ing as the places were situated conveniently for defence. His success and renown were, however, principally owing to his naval operations: which were successfully kept up by his successors. Masters of the coast, these pirates at tacked the vessels of all nations without distinction. Be sides a great number of small craft, they seized the largest Ships belonging to the European powers; the Derby and the Restoration belonging to the English, the Jupiter be longing to the French, and three Dutch vessels at once, one of which carried fifty guns. THE plan of the English was disconcerted by these de precautions. They had viewed with pleasure the first 'at tempts of there pirates, which threw the greatest part of the trade, and the whole navigation into their hands; because their lips were of greater force and better man ned than those of the country. They could no longer boast this advantage, when the vessels belonging to Bombay,
B o O K bay, which traded upon the coast were insulted, the car-,IL.,. goes plundered, and the sailors taken prisoners. The prey caution taken never to fail without a convoy was very expensive and proved ineffectual. The convoys were often dispersed and sometimes taken. These depredations de termined the company in 1722 to join their forces with those of the Portuguese, who were equally exasperated against there pirates; and it was determined between them to destroy the place of their resort. The expedition was disgraceful and abortive. That which was un. undertaken by the Dutch, two years after, with seven men of war and two bomb ketches, met with no better success, At length the Marathon, upon Anglia's refusing to pay a tribute which had long been customary, agreed to attack the common enemy by land, whilst the English attacked them by sea. This confederacy obtained for them a com plate conquest. Aloft of the harbours and forts were taken in the campaign of 1755. Genial, the capital, surrendered the year following, and with it sell an em pire whose prosperity had been only founded on public ca vanities. By its ruin the power of the Marathon, which was formidable already, was unhappily increased. THESE people, who had been long confined within the limits of their mountains, have by degrees extended them selves towards the sea, and at present possess the large tract between Surat and Goa, where they equally threaten there two cities. They are famous for their incursions and depredations on the coast of Coromandel, the neigh boyhood of Delhi, and on the banks of the Ganges; but the center of their greatest strength, and their fixed station is at Malabar. That spirit of rapine, which they carry into the countries where they occasionally: make in roads, is not to be found in the provinces they have con queried. One may venture to predia, that bac aim Chaul, Kabul, and many other places, that were so long oppressed,by
y. the tyranny of the Portuguese will make rome figure B 0 0 K again under the government of the Marattas. The fate i of Surat is an objet of frill greater importance. This town was for a long time the only sea-port for the exportation of the manufactures of the Mogul empire, and the importation of whatever was necessary to supply its consumption. To secure its allegiance, and provide for its defence, a citadel was built, the commandant of which had-no authority over that of the town; care was even taken to chuse two governors, who, from their character, were not likely to unite in oppression trade. Some disagreeable circumstances gave rise to a third power. The' Indian seas were infested with pirates who interrupted the navigation, and hindered devout Musulman from making voyages to Mecca. The emperor thought the superintendent of a colony at Coffee, fettled at Rajapour, would be a proper person to stop the progress of there depredations, and appointed him his admiral. Three lacks of rupees, or 720,000 livres a, were assigned him for his annual pay. This salary not being punctually paid, the admiral seized the castle, and from that fortress laid the town under contribution. A seene of general confusion ensued j and the avarice of the Marattas, always restless, became more rapacious than ever. These Barbarians, who had ex tended their usurpations even to the gates of the place, had, for a long time, been allowed a third part of the duties, on condition that they should not molest the inland trade. They contented themselves with this contribution, so long as fortune did not throw more considerable advantages in their way. As loon as they perceived this ferment among the citizens, not doubting that one of the parties might be transported so far by resentment as to open the gates to them, they drew their forces near to the walls. The traders finding their effects daily in danger of being plundered, called the English to their assistance in 1759, a.d aided them in taking the citadel. The court of Delvile Betven 30,000 and 40,oocl. VOL. 1. X confirmed
B 0 0 K confirmed them in the possession of it, and in the exerci,of.the naval command, together with the appointment annexed to both commissions. This revolution rector tranquillity to Surat; but Bombay, which was the eau of it, acquired an addition of credit, wealth, and power THIS small island, which is not more than twenty mil in circumference, was, for a long time, of little servi to the English. Nobody chose to fettle in a country, £ unhealthy, as to give rise to the proverb, That at Boni¢ a man's lis did nos exceed two mansions: the unwholesome ness of the air was attributed to the bad quality of th water, the low marshy grounds, and to the offensive fie of the fish used in manuring the roots of trees. Ever possible remedy was used to remove these causes of morn city. The number of inhabitants in the colony increases in proportion as there destructive principles were dim nifhid: and is computed to amount at present to fir thousand Indians, born in the island, or induced to sett there by the lenity of the government. Of there, fair are employed in the cultivation of rice, a greater numb in that of cocoa-trees which cover the plains, and the rest are engaged in navigation and other useful labour! which are continually improving. BoMBAY was at first considered in no other light tha that of an excellent harbour, which, in times of peace ses-ed as a-place of refreshment for the merchant-men frequenting the Malabar coasts ; and in time of war, a a winter station for the squadrons that government nigh send to India. This was a very valuable advantage i seas where there are so few good bays, and where th English have no other but this. The settlement haste been rendered much more useful. The company ha,; made it the mart of all their trade with Malabar, Surat, and the Persian and Arabian Gulphs. Its situation has in cited the Eng;ih merchants to resort thither; and ht their means trade is carried on with greater spirit. Th,tyrann.
tyranny exercised by the Angrily upon the continent has B O O K compelled fore of the Banians to take refuge at Bombay, notwithstanding the aversion these people, who never drink spirituous liquors, must have to live in a place where the water is so bad. Some rich Moors have likewise removed hither in consequence of the disturbances at Surat. IT is not to be imagined, that such a number of men, who, with the advantages of industry and large capitals, were intent on amassing wealth; should remain inactive. From Malabar, they furnished themselves with ship-timber, and kayar for cordage: these were worked up by the Parties from Guzarat. The sailors of the country, under the com and of European officers, have been found capable of navigating their this. Surat supplies cargoes, partly on its own account, and partly on account of the merchants of Bombay. They send out annually two ships from Baffora; one for Jodda, one for Mocha, and sometimes one for China. The cargoes of all these ships are immensely rich. Other vessels of less consequence are dispatched from the colony itself. THF private Ships of the company, arc defined for the factories they have established between Surat and Cape Comorin. The rupees of Bombay, which have been substituted instead of those of Surat, throughout the coast, and in the interior parts of the country, give the com any an advantage of five per cent. over all the nations that are their rivals. They likewise send cargoes to Bas fora, Bender-abash, and Sinai, where the sale of their cloths is the principal object of their settlement. Thir teen qr fourteen hundred bales are sufficient to supply the consumption. Their connexions with Surat are frill more advantageous; this place buys of them a large quantity of iron and lead, and some woollen-cloths; the slips are freighted back from hence with manufactures to a great amount.,X2 Tap
B 0 0 K THE ships sent from Europe formerly failed to the sea.,M i , port, where they were to take in their lading. They now,put in at Bombay. This alteration owes its rise to the advantage the company have of transporting hither a!l the merchandise of the country without expence, since they have been invested with the dignity of admiral to the great Mogul, and in consequence of this appointment have been obliged to maintain a maritime force upon the coast. THE detail into which we have entered, may incline the reader to suppose that the situation of the English at Malabar is equal to their wishes. It is nevertheless certain that they gain no more than 2,250,000 livres' from all the settlements they have upon this coast; whereas their annual expences exceed fix millions '. IF the attention of the company had not been diverted by the great scenes in which they have been engaged on the coast of Coromandel and in Bengal, it is natural to believe their affairs would be in a better slate at Malabar. THE fortifications at Bombay would not have been enlarged, than reduced, then extended again, and in sho:! altered a hundred different times. Had the plans been drawn by fitful engineers, and executed by honest work men, those enormous expences, which have excited fac a general indignation, might have been avoided. THEY would have sent from the Ganges, or from Eu rope, a fund sufficient to purchase seven or eight rich car., goes every year, instead of three or four very sender ones furnished by a declining and almost deserted trade. THE state of weakness, anarchy, and war, in which the independent kingdoms of this continent, particulars towards the south, are perpetuallyinvolved,wouldhave lug. galled a plan conducive to therefore of the inhabitants and to the interests of the nation, by whose influence it would have been precured.,*.o-j:'e I :,c:s !. b Above So3,C:l.-,Is
Is a word, the company might have obtained the island B O 0 K,III. of Salfclec, which was offered to them by the Marattas, ., . on condition of their assisting them, on 'a sudden emergency with five hundred men against the fnbah of the dean: and by this arrangement they would have freed themselves from the shameful necessity they are under of depending upon there people for subsistence. THE fertile island of S;:lfette, which is twenty-fix miles in length, and eight or nine in breadth, was taken by the Marattas from the Portuguese. Masters of this post, they threatened Bombay, which i; only separated from it by a narrow channel fordable at low water. Now that the English have raised large fortifications, and placed a numerous garrison in their colony, which is become of greater importance, an invasion is impracticable. The Marattas themselves are convinced of it; but they think it is in their power to ruin this settlement even without attacking it. This, they affirm, would eafily'be done by resiling to furnish it with provisions from Falsetto, and preventing its procuring them from the continent. Per sons of observation, io are well acquainted with the situation of the places, find Something more than probability in there ideas. THE truth is, that ever since that wrong step was taken, though perhaps it was unavoidable, of putting into the hands of the Marattas, all the ports which belonged to the Angrily, those barbarians are daily augmenting their marine. Their ambition will increase with their power; and it is impossible but in the long run, their claims and those of the English must interfere. IF we might hazard a conjecture we should not scruple to prophesy that the company's agents will be the au thorn of the rupture. Besides, that propensity to raise disturbances which is common to all of that cliffs, because confusion is favourable to their avaricious views; they are devoured with secret spleen at having no flare in those 3 inmicnfe
B O O K immense fortunes, which are made on the Coromandel, 4 , coast, and especially in Bengal. Their avarice, jealoufv,,and even their pride will incline them to represent the Marattas as turbulent neighbours, always intent upon the invasion of Bombay; to magnify the facility of dis. perusing there banditti. provided they have a proper force; to give exaggerated ideas of the advantage of plundering their mountains, filled with the treasures of Hindostan, which they have been accumulating during a whole century The company, accustomed to conquest, and hav ing no longer any urgent occasion for their troops on the banks of the Ganges, will adopt a plan that promises them an accession of riches, glory, and power. If those who dread this spirit of ambition, should prevail with them not to embark in this new enterprize, they will be screed into it by their servants; and however the event of this war may operate upon their interests, those who involve them in it will be sure to be gainers. There is less reason to fear a misfortune of this kind on the coasts of Coromandel and Orixa, which extend from Cape Comorin to the Ganges. central GEOGRAPHERS and historians always consider there as trad of tr' dflina countries inhabited by two nations, whose lane cast of C,- roomndl gage, genius, and manners have not the least resemblance. tha tglnli But as the commerce carried on there is nearly the same, in panr;u- and carried on in the same manner; we shall comprehend them both under the general name of Coromandel. The two coasts resemble each other in other respects. In beth of them, there reigns from the beginning of May to the end of Otober an excessive heat, which begins at nine in the morning, and continues till nine in the evening. During the night it is always allayed by a sea-breeze, that blows from the south-seas ; and most commonly this refreshing gaie begins at three in the afternoon. 'The air is less inflamed, though too hot the less of the year. It rains alSncft cantnp.azly during the months of Novem-her
her and December. This immense tract is covered with B o O K,lit. a parched sand for the space of two miles, and sometimes only one mite. THERE were many reasons why this country was at firs neglected by the Europeans who came. to India. It was separated by inaccessible mountains from Malabar, where thelc bold navigators endeavoured to fettle them fives. Spices and aromatics, which were the principal objects of their attention were not to be found there. In short, civil dissensions had banished from it tranquility, fe purity and industry. AT that period, the empire of Bifnagar, to which this vals country was subject, was falling to ruin. The fi:ftn monarchs of that illustrious Rate owed their power to their abilities. They headed their armies in war; in peace, they directed their councils, visited their provinces, and administered justice. Prosperity corrupted them. By degrees they sell into a habit of withdrawing themselves from the fight of their people, and of leaving the cares of government to their generals and ministers. This contra paved the way to their ruin. The governors of Visitor, the Car nati, Golconda, and Grixa, threw off their dependence, and allied the title of kings. Those of Madura, Tan jour, Mysore, Gingi, and some others, likewise untired the sovereign authority, but retained their antient stile of Nick. This great revolution had just happened, when the Europeans appeared upon the coast of Coromandel. That foreign trade was at that time inconsiderable; it consisted only of diamonds from Golconda, which! were carried to Calicut and Surat, and from thence to Ormnus orSuez, whence they were circulated through Europe and Alia. Mafuliparan, the richest and most populous city in these countries, was the only market that was known for linens; they were purchased at a great fair anniiiall holden there by the Arabian and Malayan vests that f:'c- scented that Lay, and by caravans that arrived from,X 4 ' distant
B 0 0 K disant parts. The linens were exported to the same places,as the diamonds the fondness for the manufactures of Coromandel, which began to prevail here, inspired all the European nations trading to the Indian seas with the resolution of forming settlements there. They were not discouraged cither by the difficulty of conveying goods from the inland parts of the country, where there was no navigable river; by the total want of harbours, where the sea, at one season of the year, is not navigable; by the barrenness of the coats for the most part uncultivated and uninhabited; nor by the tyranny and fluctuating flare of the government. They thought that silver would be industriously fought ?ser; that Pegu would furnish timber for building, and Bengal corn for subsistence; that a prosperous voyage of nine months would be more than sufficient to complete their lading; and that, by fortifying themselves, they should be secure against the attacks of the weak tyrants that oppressed there countries. THE first colonies were established near the shore. Some of them obtained a settlement by force: mots of them were formed 'with the consent of the sovereigns, and all were confined to a very narrow tract of land. The boundaries of each were marked cut by a hedge of thorny plants, which was their only defence. In time fortifications were raised; and the security derived from them added to the lenity of the government, soon increased the number of colonies. The splendor and independence of these settlements several times raised the jealousy of the princes in rsliofe dominions they were formed; bat their attempts to den.oiic. them proved abortive. Each colony increased in prosperity in proportion to the riches and the w'.iom of the nation that founded it. Norse of the companies tera exercised an exclusive privilege beyond tie Cape of Coot Hope had any concern ir. the trade of diamonds; vhlicl was always left to private
merchants, and by degrees sell intirely into the hands B 0 0 K of the English, or the Jews and Armenians that lived un der their protection. At present this grand object of luxury and industry is much reduced. The revolutions that have happened in Hindostan have prevented people from reporting to there rich mines; and the anarchy into which this unhappy country is plunged, leaves no room to hope that they will be frequented again. The whole of the commercial operations on the coat of Coromandel is con fined to the purchase of cottons. THE manufacturing of the white cottons brought there, differs so little from that of ours, that it would be neither interesting nor instructive to enter into a minute de scription of it. The process used in making their printed cottons, which was at first servilely followed in Europe, has since been rendered more simple and brought to greater perfection by our manufacturers. The painted cottons, which are likewise bought there, we have not yet attempted to imitate. Those, who imagine we have been prevented from undertaking this branch, merely by the high price of labour among us, are mistaken. Nature has not given us the wild fruits and drugs necessary for the composition of those bright and indelible colours, which constitute the principal merit of the Indian manu secures; nor has she furnished us with the waters that serve to fix them; and which are good at Pondicherry, but excellent at Madras, Paliacate, Maffulipatan, and Bimilipatan. THE Indians do not universally observe the same me thod in painting their cottons; either because there are some niceties peculiar to certain provinces, or because different foils produce different drugs for the same uses. WE should tire the patience of our readers, were we to trace the flow and painful progress of the Indians in the art of painting their cottons. It is natural to believe that they owe it to length of time, rather than to the ser-,z utility
B o 0 K utility of their genius. What rcems to authorize this const 11. lecture is, that they have stopped in their career, and ha;le,not advanced a single step in the arts for many ages, *, whereas we have proceeded with amazing rapidity, and view with an emulation full of confidence, the immense space that (till lies between us ind the goal. Indeed, were we to confides only tile wait of invention in the Indians, we should be tieptelcd to believe that from lime immemorial they had received tile arts they cilivia,e from forte more iindfilrious nation : but when it is IClemncn, bred that tickle arts have a peculiar dependence o the materials, gums, colours, and productions of India, wse cannot but be coill'iiccd that they are natives of that country. IT may appear somewhat filrplizing that cottons printed .with all colours should be sold at so moderate a price that they arc abaft as cheap as tllhoe which hl;tve only two or three. But it mud be obstruct that the 1lerch;llttts of ti country sell, and to all the companies, a large (quantity of cottons at a tine: and that the demand for cottons painted of all colours make, but a finally article in their allotments as they arc not much esteemed ill Europe. TI'HOUGI: cottons of all forts are in fi>lec degree tc manufactured throughout time whole country of Hindostan, which extends from Cape Comorin to the banks of the Ganges; it is observable, that tile fine forts arc made ill the castes part. the cOlllllosn ones in the celltel-, and the coarse ones in the molt icclteir parts. IFaaurics are efltaiilhcd in the European colonies, and upon the coast: they arc found in greater number at the distance of five or fix Leagues from the fca, where cottons is more cultit itch anil provisions arc cheaper. 'The Illrcllafes they make thcrc, arc carried tlhirt) or forty lc:igu ts filter illo the country The Titian t;itchants lI.:led in our factories, have alv arcs the imaniageie ct cf ths i Lbuilnefb.,Tilt
'TrE, quantity and quality of the goods that are wanted B 00 IC are fettled with these people: the price is fixed according '. to the patterns: and, at the time the contract is made, a third or a fourth part of the money agreed for, is ad danced, Ellis arrangement ia owing to the necessity there merchants themselves lie under of advancing money to the workmen by their partners or agents who are dispersed through the whole country, of keeping a watchful eye upon them for fear of losing what they have advanced, all of gradually Iclfenitig the fire by calling for the cot t(inl as fail as they are worked off. Without these pre millions, nothing could he depended upon in an oppressive government, where the eavear cannot work on his own account, either recalls his circumstances will not permit, or bccaulc hIe dares not venture to discover them for fear of exactions. :line companies that have cither success or good ma nagenent cot;nfanltly keep a ycnr's advance-money in their settlements. By this method they are sure of having the quantity of goods they have occasion for, and of the qua city they chide, at tile knoll convenient time: not to men tons that their workmen, anti their merchants, who are kept ill constant employment, never leave them. Those nations that want money and credit cannot be gin their mercantile operations till the arrival of their nips. They have only five or fix months, at most, to execute the orders sent from Europe. The goods are manu f.Alrel ad nd examined in haste; and they are even obliged to take filch as are known to be bad, and would be reject at any other time. The necessity they are under of com plating their cargoes, and fitting out their vessels before the hurricanes conte on, allow no time for nicety of in fiction. Ir would be a mistaken notion to imagine that the country agents could be prevailed upon to order goods to be invade ont thilci account, in hopes of selling them witlI,a rca.
B 0 O K a reasonable advantage to the company in whose fen'ice,ILl c they are engaged. For besides that the generality of them,are not rich enough to embark in so large an undertaking, they would not be certain of finding their account in it. If the company that employ them, should be hindered by unforeseen accidents, from sending the usual number of ,L:S, rae.' merchants would have no vent for their coin. modifies. The Indians, the form of whose dress requires different breadths and lengths from those of the cottons fabricated for our use, would not purchase them; and the other European companies would be provided, or certain of being provided with whatever the extent of their trade required, and their cash enabled them to purchase. The plan of procuring loans which was contrived to remedy this inconvenience, never has been, or can be usefulness has been a custom, time immemorial in Hindostan for every citizen who borrows money to give a written in. ferment to his creditor. This deed is of no force in a court of judicature, unless it be signed by three witness, and bears the day of the month, and the year when it has made, with the rate interest agreed upon by the partie. If the borrower fails to fulfil his engagements, he man be arrested by the lender himself. He is never imprisoned, because there is no fear of his making his escape. le would not even eat without obtaining leave of his ere. ditor.,THE Indians make a threefold division of i^v;reft; one of which is vice, another neither vice nor virtue, and a third virtue: this is their manner of expression. The interest that is fin, is four per cent. a month; the interest that is neither vice nor virtue is two; and ths interest that is virtue, one. The last is, in their opinion, an a& of beneficence that only belongs to the molt heroic minds. Yet though the Europeans, who are forced to borrow, meet with this treatment, it is plain they cannot,anta
avail themselves of the indulgence without involving them B 0 0 Kill. selves in ruin. THE foreign trade of Coromandel is not in the hands of the natives. Only in the western part, indeed, there are Mohammedan, known by the name of Chains, who, at Namur and Porto-Nuovo, send out ships to Achenn, Mer guy, Siam, and the eastern coast. Besides vessels of con miserable burden employed in these voyages, they have smaller embarkations for the coasting trade for Ceylon, and the pearl fishery. The Indians of Maffulipatan turn their attention another way. They import white callicoes from Bengal, which they dye or print, and sell them again at the places from whence they had them, at thirty five or forty per cent. advantage. EXCEPTING there transactions, which are of very little consequence, the whole trade is vested in the Europeans who have no partners but a few Banians and Armenians fettled in their colonies. The quantity of callicoes exported from Coromandel to the different sea-ports in India, may be computed at three thousand five hundred bales. Of these the French carry eight hundred to Ma lahar, Mocha, and the ife of France; the English, twelve hundred to Bombay, Malabar, Sumatra, and the Phi tipping Islands; and the Dutch fifteen hundred to their several settlements. Except nve hundred bales defined for Manilla, each of the value of 2,400 livres, the others are of so ordinary a kind that they do not exceed 720 livres b at prime cost : so that the whole number of three thousand five hundred bales does not amount to more than 3,360,0oo livres c. COROMANDEL furnishes Europe with nine thousand five hundred bales; eight hundred of which are brought by the Danes; two thousand five hundred by the French; three thousand by the English; and three thousand two,Abut reo guineas. b About 30 Guineas. ' Not quite 50,o;0I.,hundred
B O 0 K hundred by the Dutch. A considerable part of there cal-,III.,icoes is dyed blue, or striped with red and blue for the trade of the Blacks. The others are fine muffin, printed callicoes, and handkerchiefs from Maffulipatam, or Alia. cate. It is proved by experience, that one with another; each base, in the nine thousand five hundred, costs only .o livres, consequently they ought to bring in to the workshop where they are manufactured 8,s6o,ooo livres . THE payments are not entirely made in specie either in Europe or Asia; we give in exchange, cloths, iron, lead, copper, coral, and some other articles of less value. Cn the other hand, Asia pays with spices, pepper, rice, sugar, corn, and dates. All these articles taken together,'may amount to 4,800,000 livres c. From this calculation it follows, that Coromandel receives 6,720,000 livres in money the English, who have acquired the same superiority upon this coat that they have gained elsewhere, have formed on it several settlements. In 1757, they took possession of Madura, a considerable town, and tolerably well fortified: but they did not fix there with any com mercia views. The cottons calculated for the eastern part of Asia, and for Africa, which are manufactured in the kingdom belonging to this capital, are; for the mol part, carried to the Dutch factories on the coast of the pearl fishery. The only use the English make of this ac question is to raise from it a revenue sufficient to over balance the expences that are unavoidably incurred there. Trichinopoly though totally destroyed by the cnrel wars it has sustained, is of much more importance to them. This strong post is the key of Tanjour, Mysore, and Ma dura, and gives them great influence in those three fates. IT was solely with the view of securing an easy communication with this celebrated fortress, that they took pof-,·C ital L Near 36cccl. 'Abocr 2zs,crc i. ' year 5ac,ccc l.,frffica
session of Devi-cotta in 1749, whose territory is no more B 0 0 K,IIL than three miles in circumference. There is no kind of manufacture carried on, either upon the spot, or in the neighbourhood, the only produce being some wood, and a little rice. The defence of this factory costs about 40,000 livres; an expence that takes away the whole profits of it. It would, notwithstanding, be a pols of im portance, if what has been advanced by some intelligent men be true, that the Coleroon might, at an easy expence, be put into a condition to receive the larger vessels. The coast of Coromandel would not then be without harbours; and the nation, masters of the only port inr those parts, would have a powerful means of improving their com mere, which their rivals would be deprived of. Is 1686, the English purchased Cudalore, with a territory extending eight miles along the coast, and four miles into the interior part of the country. This acquisition, which they obtained of an Indian prince for the sum of 742,500 livres b, was confirmed to them by the Moguls, who soon after made themselves masters of the Carnatic. Considering afterwards, that the fortress, which they found ready built, was more than a mile from the sea, and that the reinforcements destined for it might be in excepted; they built fort St. David within cannon-flint of it, at the mouth of a river, and on the verge of the In tian Ocean. Since that three alders have been treated which, with the town and fortress, are computed to contain sixty thousand fouls. Their employment is dying blue, or printing the cottons that come from the inland parts of the country, and in manufacturing the finest di cities in the world, to the amount of ,5Sco,ooo livres c. The plundering of this settlement by the French in 1758, and the demolishing of its fortifications, have done it no laying injury. Its spirit seems rather increased, though Sr. David has not been rebuilt, and Cudalore is only put '42z . About ,Co. C About 3zo ooo l. About 60,ooo 1,,into
i 0 0 K into a condition of making a tolerable resistance. A re, venue of 144,000 livres a defrays all the expences of thi,colony. Maffulipatan affords advantages of another kind THIS town, which passed from the hands of the French into those of the English in 1759, is by no means wha it was when the Europeans, at the conclusion of the sis teeth century, doubled the Cape of Good Hope. There are but a few cottons made or sold there, which, norwich handing their beauty, cannot furnish any considerable branch of export. Accordingly the new poffefforsconfide their conquest not so much as a market for buying and selling large quantities of goods. By means of the caravan which come from very distant places to furnish themselves with fait; and by the intercourse they have formed with the inland parts of the country, they have managed to establish a demand for their cloths in the most re mote countries of the Dean, and this trade is likes to flourish still more. To this may be added the sarthe advantage of drawing a revenue from the procul of th silt, and that of the customs, amounting to 1,320,o0 pounds b, of which 600,000 livres c only are annually ec pended upon the settlement. VIZACAPATAN is a small town, with little territory belonging to it, and not four thousand inhabitants. Been situated between Maffulipatan and Ganjam, it is the re receptacle of the fine cottons that are made in that part o Orixa, amounting to five or fix hundred bales, which coe 45o,ooo livres d. THE merchandise procured from all these places an from a few Subordinate factories that vary according t circumstances, is carried to Madrasss which is the cent of all the English transactions on the coast of Coromandel THis town was built a hundred years ago by William Langhorne, in the country of Arcot, and by the sea fid about 6,3001. b Near 58,oool. c Lise more than :6,0oo1. a Abo-t ;l,ool.,A
As le placed it i;n the midst of a sandy tear, altogether B O O K dr), and where there was no water fit for drinking, but what was fetched from the distance of mole than a mile; people were curious to know what reasons could have determined him to make so bad a choice. Hi friends pre tended that his view was to draw thither all the trade of St. Thomas, which has equally been the consequence, while his enemies inputed it to a desire of continuing in the neighbourhood of a mistress he had in that Portus guefe'colony. This settlement has increased so much since its first establishment, that it has been divided into three districts. The first of thee, known in Europe by the name of Fort St. George, and in India by that of the White Town, is occupied by four or five hundred English, men, women, and children. It is defended only by a flight wall, and four ill-construed bastions. To the north lies the Black Town, which is larger, and still worse fortified; and is the quarter where the Jews, Armenians looks, and the richest Indians reside. Beyond this are the suburbs which arc entirely defenceless, and full of in habitants. The three divisions, of which the place is composed; two alders, which lie at a snail distance from it, and the whole territory, which is not more than fifteen miles ii ch-conference; contain two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, almost all of them natives of India. AirtON this vast number, there are but few weavers. Fifteen thousand artists are employed in printing and painting the fine callicoes that are worn in Europe; and a considerable quantity of common cottons destined for the different sea-ports of Asia, particularly for the Philippine sands. There are, perhaps, forty thousand people oc copied in arranging and selling coral and glass-ware, with which the women in the interior parts of the country adorn their hair, or make necklaces and bracelets. Other branches of industry, inseparable from a large mart, em ploy a great number of hands. The inhabitants who VYo. I. Y . have
B O O K have deservedly gained the confidence of the comp aby travel through Arcot and the neighbouring country, to buy what goods they have occasion for. The most con miserable among them lend money to the English mer chant: , who though not of the company, have liberty to traffic in the different lea-ports of Asia; they enter into partnership with them, or embark on their vessels goods for their own private account. The business carried on by the company and the private merchants taken toge. ther, has made Madrasssss one of the most opulent and im. portant places in India. BESIDES the profits accruing to the English from the cottons then purchase in this town, and from the cloths and other merchandise they vend there, the customs, the duties upon tobacco and betel, and sone other import,, bring in a revenue of 1,zoo,ooo livres a. The continua. tion of there advantages is secured by a garrison of a thou sand Europeans, and of fifteen or eighteen hundred lipihii. SuCH is the situation of the English company on the coast of Coromandel, considered merely as a mercantile body. Let us now examine it in a political light. Ix 1-j1, the English undertook to make Mo:a!nmed. Ali-Khan nabob of Arcot. The execution of this great plan was attended with innumerable difficulties, which were at length surmounted after a series of battles, de feats, victories and negotiations, that lasted several years. The new sovereign, who had frill many enemies remain ing, committed the safest of his person to the care of hi protectors, by fixing his residence at Madrasssss; and placed his provinces under the cover of their arms, leaving to them the able charge of defending them. To enable them to support the burden they had undertaken, and to reimburse them for the money they had advanced, it was stipulated, that they Should enjoy the revenues of the country, which in terres of the greatest prosperity were I2,o00,ooo livres b,* Aib~- b,:,c:1. . - rex. t. 525,C-Dl.,and
and are still at least 8,40o,oooa. It is true we ought B O O Kill. previously to deduct 2,880,ooo b for public expences, and as much more for the maintenance of the Nabob; but there till remains 2,640,000 livres c, clear income to the company. By this management, they keep the Carnatic, that is the most industrious country in this immense that in a state of absolute dependence. To strengthen their influence still more on these coasts, the English had long meditated a plan of making a large acquisition of territory in the neighbourhood of Maflili- satan. In 1767 they succeeded so far as to procure, front the subah of Dean, the carrion of the provinces of Can air, Slur, Montafanagar, Rajamandry and Chicago. From this prodigious accession of revenue and territory, they had begun to think that they had nothing more to do than to enjoy the advantages of their situation; when they saw a storm gathering which threatened to shake, if not to destroy their prosperity. HYDEP.-ALI-KHAN, a soldier of fortune, who had learned the art of war from the Europeans, had made great conquests, and rendered hiniflf mailer of Mysore. Relying upon his strength and his reputation, he summoned tile flbal Gof the Dean, and the nl;bob of the Car nati to join with him in driven the !':i:-:::; out ut' Cu romances, threatening, if i.l- ii-sed, to ravage all their provinces. The company thought both their credit and interest concerned to anticipate the designs of an enemy who announced his resentment and project in so high a firkin, and they sent out an army against him in March inc,. Colonel. WOOD who had the command of it marched forward with confidence; when, ro ils great aRftnliflment he beheld, in front, an army punctually paid, and excel gently nell disciplined, consisting of thirty thousand foot, and tncnlty tlioufiund hoise, with a considerable train ofar- ' Near 36C ,cl. ' ,i6,osc. Sit', c-.,Y . silvery.
B O O K tiller. The war was carried on by contrivance, a circum ,ft.nrce very die cable to Hydcr, whose genius was subtile and fruitful in Stratagems. He found means to surprize his enemies in their camp, carry off their provisions and baggage, seized their best posts by procuring the most exact intelligence, drove their troops before him, van quailed, disheartened, and almost ready to revolt for want of pay ; and at last alarmed them with the apprehension of seeing their capital besieged, plundered and destroyed. The panic was becoming universal, when some timely succours arrived, which enabled the English general to regain his ground. On the 4th of Oaober 1768, he found means to compel the Indians to a general engagement, which they had hitherto legend desirous to avoid. This was, perhaps, the most obstinate and bloody engagement that had ever happened in this part of the world. Atlas, 'good remained master of the field where both hides had fought so bravely: but this was all the advantage he gained by his victory. Cyder, though defeated, kept up a menacing count. dance, and was till formidable. Terms of accommoda tion were proposed to him. He listened to them with no small indifference; and it was not without much negotiation nor, if some accounts may be believed, without con miserable presents, that he was prevailed upon to conclude a peace after having carried on the war for two years. This prince continues to be considered by the English ra ther as an enemy, against v-hom it is necessary they should be constantly on their guard, than as an ally on whom they might depend. Some of the most judicious amon, them are even of opinion, that unless their nation b) fume means or other gets rid of a neighbour too ambitious and too active for its report, it cannot securely rely on th, power which a combination of fortunate circumstance has give it on the cotta of Coromandel. Let us take; view of i.s unit :.-n :: 3:r.- '.,Bs. sG
BeNGAL is a vast country of Asia, bounded yv the king B 0 0 Kill dom of Allan and Aracan on the east by several pro vices belonging to the Great Mogul on the wets; by c :r; l frightful rocks on tie north, and by the sea on the liitlh. k ,,,.l , t Extends on both sides the Ganges, which rises from dis i ' ' ferment forces in Tibet, alt after several windings i.ll!ar. through Caucasus, penetrates into India across the mountains on its frontier. This river, after having formed in its course a great number of large, fertile, and hell peopled islands discharges itself into the sea by several mouths, ofivhich only two are known and frequented. TowARDS the source of this river, was formerly a city called Palibothra. Its antiquity was so great, that Dio. domus Sculls makes no scruple of assuring us that it was built by that Hercules to whom tile Greeks ascribed all the great and surprizing onions that had been performed in the world. In Pliny's time, its opulence was celebrated through the whole universe; and it was looked upon as the general mart for the people inhabiting both sides of the river that wasted its walls. THE history of the revolutions that have happened in Bengal, is intermixed with so many fables that it does not deserve our attention. All we can with certainty disco ver is, that the extent of this empire has been obmctimies greater and sometimes less; that it has had fortunate and unfortunate periods; and that it has alternately been formed into one single kingdom, or divided into several independent States. It was under the dominion of one mailer, when a more powerful tyrant Egbar, grandfather of Aurengzebe, undertook the conquest of it; which was begun in 1590, and completed in 1595. Since this ara Bengal has always acknowledged the Mogul for its sovereign At first, the governor to whom the administration of it was entrusted, held his court at Raja-maliul, but afterwards removed it to Dacca. Ever since the year 1718, it has been fixed at Muxadavad, a large inland towns 3 twq
c O O rK two leagues ditihnt from Caffimbazar. There are several nabobs and Rajas subordinate to this viceroy, who is called subah. THIS important pont was occupied for a long time by the sons of the Great Mogul: but they so frequently unemployed the forces alit treasure under their commas l, to raise disturbances in th!: empire, that itvwas thought pro. per to commit that province to mcln who lad Less influence and were more dependent. True it is, the new governors gave no alar!n to the court of Delhi; hut they were far from being punctual in permitting the tri bute they coveted to the ron al treasury. These abuses gained farther ground at'fel thieexpeditin of Kouli Khan; ard matter; were carried so far, that the emperor, who was :unable to pay the Mararras what lie owed them, ait!loriirl them, in 17!o, to college it in Bengal them f.l'.;. 'lhece banditti, to the number of two hundred thoul-tid, divided themselves into three armies, ravaged this fine country for ten years together, and did notleave i: i!l :.ir- had extorted immense firms. Divine all there commotions, despotic government, which uihr.ppi! prevails all over india, maintained its influence in Breno.-: but, at the same time, a small district that had hitherto preserved its independence, still continues to prec-r'e it. This fortunate spot, which ex. !ends about a hundred and sixty miles, is called Biff:n- pour. It has been %overr.cd time immemorial, by a Bra train family of the tribe of the Rajahptits. Here the pu-i:y and equity o of the attaint political 'yiiem of te Idins is found unadulterated. This singular government, trc, hint and most striking monument in the world has, till !tow,, been beheld With too much indifference. We love r,, remains of ancient nat-io: but brass and marble, which steak onrl' to inanimate :! and conjecture, those uncertain i:ireipret,-r o!' meant" s and clufonis that no longer exil. there a !'[.i c:t:!:.- :raniportca ! :o Silrcnpour, ice :5aold,it 1stnitl
instantly be a witness of the life led by the first inhabit 0OO K wants of India many thousand years ago; he would con verse with them; he would trace the progress of this na tion celebrated as it were from its very infn.icy; lie would see the rise of a government, which being founded in happy prejudices, in a simplicity and purity of manners in the mild temper of the people, and the integrity of the chieftains, has survived while iniilntmlrabiiefyiftens of legillitioli, Ihiic! have inside ont! a :;a;iliiory appearance upon the stage of the v-orld, with t!:i gnc;r.tionis hey were destined to torment. More solid a:1d arabic tlhLn thole political structures, which raised by imposture and elithufial'ii, are hi scourges rei in:mrn ,kind, and are doomed to perish with the tools opinions that gave talc; birth, the government of Biffenpour, the offspring of a uRf attention to order, and the l:;'s of dartle has been pisa. blushed and militated upon uiIcltangecabie principles, and has undergone no more alteration than those principles themselves. The singular situation of this country has precl;rvcd to the inhabitants their primitive happiness and the gentleness of their charaO.cr, bh lecturing them from the danger of being conquered, or or imbruiiig their hands in the blood of their fellow-creatures. Nature has surrounded them with water; and they need only open the sluices of their rivers to overflow tile whole country. The armies sent to subdue them have so frequently been drowned, that the plan of enslaving them has been: laid fide; and the professors of it have thought proper to content themselves with atn appearance of f;:hrn.iTlOn. LIBERTY and property are sacred iln BFifinjnpur. Rob very, either public or private, is never heard of. As soon as any stranger enters the territory lie engages the attention of the Lis, :which provide for his le purity. He is furnished with guides at free cost, who conduct him from place to place, and are answerable for his person and effects. When he changes his conductors,,Y + the
B O O K the new ones deliver to those they relieve an attestation,. of their conduct, which is registered and afterwards sent to the Raja. All the time he remains in the country he is maintained, and conveyed with his merchandise, at the expence of the state, unless he desires leave to flay longer than three days in the same place. In that case he is obliged to defray his own expences, unless he is detained by any disorder, or other unavoidable accident. This be beneficence to strangers is the consequence of the warmth with which the citizens enter into each other's interest. They are so far from being guilty of an injury to each other, that whoever finds a purse, or other thing of va. lue, hangs it upon the first tree he meets with, and in terms the ncarei, guard, who give notice of it to the pub hic by beat of drum. These maxims of probity are so ge. neatly received, that they dire even the operations of government. Out of between sevens and eight millions' it annually receives, without injury to agriculture or trade, what is not wanted to supply the unavoidable eTcpenc; of the state, is laid out in improvements. The Raja i; enabled to engage in these humane employments as h: pays the Moguls only what tribute, and at what times, he thinks proper. Though the rest of Bengal is far from enjoying the same happiness, it is, nevertheless, the richest and mos populous province in the whole empire. Besides its vows confutation, which is necessarily considerable, its export are i.men.eie. One part of its merchandise is carried int tie inland country. Tibet takes off a quantity of il cottons, besides some iron and cloths of European p: dstiicn. The inh.a'ianits of those mountains fetch the from Patna themfcises, and give niulk and rhubarb exchange. THF. rhubarb, which begins to be cultivated with f! cess in the highlands of Scotland, is not, as is comrno,Abait 3;;,ccol. on an avera;c.,tbeiei';
believed, a creeping plant; but gross in tufts at some B O 0 Knit. defiance from each other. There is no occasion to sow it, as the feed naturally falls to the ground, and produces a new plant. Tir must is a production peculiar to Tibet. It is con tined in a small bag of the size of a hen's egg, which grows in the shape of a bladder under the belly of a species of goat, between the navel and the genitals. In its original slate it is nothing more than putrid blood which coagulates in this bag. The largest bladder yields no more than half an ounce of musk. The smell of it is naturally so firing, that, for common ufc, it is necessary to mode rate it by mixing it with milder perfumes. The hunters, with a view of increasing their profits, contrived to take away part of the musk from the bladders, and to fill the vacuity with the liver and coagulated blood of the ani mal minced together. The government, to put a stop to there fraudulent mixtures, ordered, that all the bladders, before they were sewed up, should be examined by inspectors who should close them with their own hands, and feal them with the royal signet. This precaution has put a stop to the frauds practised to reduce the quality of the musk, but not to those which are calculated to increase the weight of it; they contrive to open the bags artfully and pour particles of lead into them. THE trade of Tibet is nothing in comparison of that which Bengal carries on with Agra, Delhi, and the pro vices adjacent to those filter capitals, in felt, cigar, opium, silk, filk-ftuffs, and an infinite quantity of cottons, particularly muffins. These articles, taken together, amounted formerly to more than forty millions a-year'. So considerable a sum did not reach the banks of the Ganges; but it was the means of retaining a sum nearly equal, which must have gone from thence to pay the ditties or for other purposes. Since the viceroys of the Mogul have made themselves in a manner, independent, antea .,, 7 ,coo, !send
B o o K send him no revenues but such as they chuse to allow him,,the luxury of the court is greatly abated, and the branch of exportation we have been speaking of, is no longer so considerable. THE maritime trade of Bengal managed by the natives of the counter, has not suffered the same diminution, nor was it ever so extensive, as the other. It may be di vide into two branches, of which Cate is in possession of the greater part. Cater is a difiri& of some extent, a little below the most western mouth of the Ganges. Balafore, situated upon a navigable river, serves it for a port. The navigation to the Maldives, which the English and French have been obliged to abandon on account of the temperature of the climate, is carried on entirely from this road. Here they load their vessels with rice, coarse cot. tons, and some filk-tuffs for these islands, and receive coteries in exchange, which serves for money in Bengal, and are sold to the Europeans. Tir inhabitants of Cate, and some other people of the Lower Ganges, maintain a considerable correspondence with the country of Adam. This kingdom, which is thought to have formerly made a part of Bengal, and is only divided from it by a r;\er that falls into the Ganges, deserves to be better known, if-hat is affirmed is true, that the invention of gunpowder is to he attributed to it, and that it was communicated from Asian to Pegu, ad from Pegu to China. Its gold, silver, iron and lead mints would have added to its renown if they had been proper' worked. In the midst of there riches it makes so little use of, it is in the moll pressing necessity for want of flat, being obliged to have recourse to the c-:podicnt of procuring i ifromn a decoction of certain plants.,:l the beginning of the present century, some Cranmer of Bengal carried their superstitions to Assam, where the people were so happy as to be guided solely by the dic-,tite;
states of natural religion. The priests persuaded them, B O o K that it would be more agreeable to Brama if they substituted the pure and wholesome salt of the ca than that which they used in lieu of it. The sovereign consented to re clive it on condition that the exclusive trade Should be in his hands; that it Should be brought by the people of Bengal alone, and that the boats laden with it, (hould stop at the frontiers of his dominions. Thus have all these coined religions been introduced by the interest and for the interest of the priests who preach, and the kings who receive them. Since this arrangement has taken place, forty vessels from five to fix hundred tons burden each are annually lent from the Ganges to Sham laden with salt, which yields two hundred per cent. profit. They re. clive in payment a small quantity of gold and silver, ivory, musk, eagle wood, gum-lac, and a large quantity of ilk. Tess silk, which is singular in its kind, requires no trouble; it is found on the trees where the silkworms are produced, nourished, and undergo their several metamorphoses The inhabitants has no other trouble but that of collecting it. The neglected cods produce a new genera tion; during the growth of which, the tree puts forth new leaves, which serve successively for the nourishment of the young worms. These revolutions are repeated twelve times in a year; but do not turn to so good account in the rainy as in the dry seasons. The litffs made of this silk have a great deal ofluflre, but do not last long. Excepting these two branches of maritime trade, which, for particular reasons, have been confined to the natives of the country, all the rest of the vessels lent from the Ganges to the different fca ports of India belong to the Europeans, and are built at Pegu. Pegu is a country situated on the Gulph of Bengal, be tween the kingdoms of Aracan and Siam. Revolutions, which are so frequent in all the despotic empires of Asia,,2 haver
o O I have been here more frequently repeated than in any,U other. It has alternately been the center of a great pcwer,and a province to several states less extensive than itself It is at present dependent upon Ava. THE only port of Pegu that is open to strangers is Sy ram. The Portuguese, during their prosperity, wre long in possession of it, and it was then in great repute At present it is hardly frequented but by the European fettled on the coast of Coromandel and Bengal. The latte can only sell there some coarse cottons, nor would the visit it at all, except for the building, or resitting of the ships; for which purpose they are fin nihed with all nee far-v materials (except iron and cordage) of an excelle: quality., and at a moderate price. Since the disgust take at the hig'i rate of ship-building at Surat, Syrian is b come a kind of general dock) ad for all cXchils employs in the country trade. THEIR exports consist of teak timber, wax, ivory, fire cabin, and an excellent oil for the preservation of filii The finest topazes, sapphires, amethysts, and rubies, the world, cmJne from Pegu. They are seldom to be m with at Syrian, nor can they be had without resorting the court, which is kept at Ava. The Armenians ha for some time had such an ascendent, that they make t irate difficult to the Europeans, and even to the Engli who are the only people that have formed a settlement Pegu. A St-LL more considerable branch of commerce, whi the Europeans at Bengal carry on with the rest of ldi is that of cpinrm. Opium is the produce of a species poppy, whose root is nearly as large as the sing abounding, as well as the rest of the plant, with a bitt i;ice. The stem, which is commonly pliable, and foi tires rather hairy, is two cubits high, and produces lea resembling those of the lettuce, oblong, indented, curl and of a ia-gclecn colour. Its flower is in the form 0,ro
roes. When the poppy is full of sap, a flight incision is B o o K made at the top, from whence distill fume drops of a milky liquor, which is left to congeal, and is afterwards ga there. This operation is repeated three times, but the produce gradually diminishes in quantity, nor is it of o good a quality. When the opium is gathered, it is moist end and kneaded with water or honey, till it acquires the consistence, viscidity, and loftiness of pitch when it is 'well prepared, and is then made into small cakes. That which is rather soit, and yields to the touch, is inflammable of a brown blackish colour, and has a strong fetid snell, is esteemed the belt; on the contrary, that which is dry, friable, burnt, and mixed with earth and sand, is thought good for nothing. According to the different manner of preparing it, and the doses in which it is given, it purifies, excites agreeable ideas, or occasions madness. PATNA, situated on the Upper Ganges, is the most celebrated place in the world for the cultivation of opium. The fields are covered with it. Besides what is carried into the inland parts, there are annually three or four thousand chests exported, each weighing three hundred pounds. It fells upon the Spot at the rate of five or fix hundred livres a a chest. This opium is not purified like that of Syria and Persia, which we make use of in Europe: it is only a paste that has undergone no preparation, and has not a tenth part of the virtue of purified opium. AN excessive fondness for opium prevails in all the countries to the east of India. The Chinese emperors have suppressed it in their dominions, by condemning to the flames every vessel that imported this species of poison, and every house that received it. On the Malayan coast, at Borneo, the Moluccas, Java, Macassar, and Sumatra, the consumption is incredible. These people smoke it with their tobacco. Those who are going to perform tome ldfpcrate action intoxicate themselves with this smoke.,Bet;ween 4 1. and 251. on an average.,They
BO O K They then encounter indiscriminately every thing tile, i meet. The Dutch, who are in possession of aloft all displaces where opium makes the greatest havock, have bee more intent on the profits arising from the sale of th article than touched with companion for its nulnerou victims. Rather than prohibit the use of it, they lias authorized individuals to massacre all those who, lbeij disordered with opium, appear in the frets armed. THE Dutch company formerly carried on the traite opium in their settlements. They vended but little, be cause four hundred per cent. was gained by smuggling In 1743, they resigned this branch to a particular focirt to which they deliver a certain quantity of opium at fixed price. The gains of this society, which consist the principal members of the government of Batavia, a immense: no one venturing to expose himself to their i sentient by pursuing a contraband trade incompatible with their interests. The coast of Malacca, and part the island of Sumatra, are furnished with opium by theft English merchants, who gain more by this merchant than by the common cottons they bring to these differ markets. THEY send rice and sugar to the coast of Coronary for which they are paid in specie, unless they have the g( fortune to meet with some foreign merchandise at a che rate. They send out one or two vessels laden with ri cottons and silk: the rice is sold in Ceylon, the colts at Malabar, and the silk at Surat; from whence they br back cotton, which is usefully employed in the coat manufactures of Bengal. Two or three ships laden a rice, gum-lac, and cotton stuffs go to Baffora, and ret with dried fruits, rose-water and a quantity of gold. T rich merchandise carried to Arabia is paid for intirely gold and silver. The trade of the Ganges with the ol seaports of India brings twenty-eight millions annual into Bengal.,l,,r22.cool.,fc.rp
THOUGH this trade pases through the hands of the B 0 O K Europeans, and is garlic on in their bottoms, it is not - intirely on their own account. The Moguls, indeed, who are commonly confined to the places of their govern ment, have felon any concern in these expeditions; but the Armenians, wvlo, since the revolutions in Persia, are settled upon the h:nbks of the Ganges, to which they formerly only made voyages, readily throw their capital into this trade. The Indians employ still larger sums in it. The impossibility of enjoying their fortunes under an oppressive government, does not deter the natives of this country from labouring incessantly to increase them. As they would rmu too great a risque by engaging openly ill trade, they are obliged to have recourse to clandestine methods. As soon as an European arrives, the Gentoo, who know mankind better than is commonly supposed, study his character: and if they find him frugal, alive, and well informed, offer to at as his brokers and cashiers, and lend or procure him money upon bottomry, or at in terest. This interest, which is usually nine per cent. at least, is higher, when he is under a necessity of borrowing of the Cheeks. THESE Cheeks are a powerful family of Indians, who have, time immemorial, inhabited the banks of the Ganges. Their riches have long ago procured them the manage ment of the bank belonging to the court, the farming of the public revenue, and the direction of the money, which they coin afrei every year, in order to receive an annually the benefit ailing from the mint. By uniting so many advantages, they are enabled to lend the govern ment, forty a, sixty b, or even a hundred millions c at a time. When the government finds it impossible to refund the money, they are allowed to indemnify themselves by op pressing the people. That so prodigious a capital should be preserved in the center of tyranny, and in the midst of 'Is7iC103, l, , 2,6. Cc 1l. c 4.37s,cca 1.,revolu-
B o o K revolutions, appears incredible. It is not possible to consul , clive how such a structure could be raised, much lecf,how it could he supported for so long a time. To ex plain this mystery it must be observed, that this family has always maintained a superior influence at the court of Delhi; that the nabobs and r- mss in Beglgnl are dependent upon it; that this what ah:ei t the person of the ffuhai have constantly been his creatures; and that til fiubj! himself has been maintained, or dethroned by the intrigues; of this family. To this we may add, that the dilic:elit branches of it, and the wei.th belonging to them bell, dispersed, it has nceer been possible to ruin *above olC half of i ?t a tin', "'h would frill have left thcnil moi resources than :ere necessary to enable them to carry on their refentmci.r to the highest extremity. The Euro means who frequent the Ganges have not been sufficiency alarmed at this despotism, which ought to have prevented them from submitting to a dependence upon the Cheeks They have fl!!cn into tile flare, by borrowing consider. able sums of these avaricious financiers, apparently at nine, blt in reality at thirteen per cent. if we take into the account the difference between the money that is lcqit them, and that in which they are obliged to make their payments. The engagements entered into by the Fiencb and Dutch companies have been kept within some bounds; but those of the English company have been unlimited In 75;; they were indebted to the Chicks about sigh and twenty millions '. SUCH is the conduct of these great bodies, who are ill sole managers of the European trade at Bengal. Lie Portuguese, who first frequented this rich country, h:; the wisdom to establish themselves at Chitigan, a po; stated upon the frontier of African, not far from il most eastern branch of the Ganges. The Dutch, who without incurring the resentment of an enemy, at tha time so formidable, were desirous of sharing in their goa,for [tune
fortune, looked out for a port, which, without obstruct C o 0K ing their plan, would expose them the least to hostilities. A In 1603, they cast their eyes upon Balafore; and all the companies, rather through imitation than in consequence of any well concerted Iclhcmes, followed their example. Experience taught them the propriety of fixing as near as possible to the markets from whence they had their merchandise; and they advanced up that arm of the Ganges, which separating itself from the main river at Mourclla above Canflmbazar, falls into the sea near Bala fore under the name of the river Hughes. The govern ment of the country permitted hen to ere warehouses wherever there was plenty of manufactures, and to for tiny themselves upon this river. Is passing up this river, the first town that is met with is Calcutta, the principal settlement of the English com any. The air here is unhealthy, the waterbrackifil, the anchorage not very safe, and the neighbouring country affords but few manufactures. Notwithstanding these in conveniences, great numbers of rich Armenian, Moorish; and Indian merchants invited by the prospect of liberty and security have fixed their residence here. The people have multiplied in proportion through a territory of three or four leagues il circumference, of which the company are the sole Sovereigns. Tie fortress has this advantage, that the vessels bound to the European settlements are obliged to pass under its cannon. Six leagues higher is situated Frederic Nagore found ed by the Danes in 1756, in order to supply the place of an ancient settlement, where they could not main sain their ground. This new establishment has not yet acquired ally solidity, and there is all the reason imaginable to believe, that it will never become considerable. CHaNDERNAGORE, which lies two leagues and an Half higher, belongs to the French. It has the disadvantage of being rather exposed on the western side; but its har VOL. 1. Z your
B o o K your is excellent, and the air is as pure as it can be oa,IlL,L the banks of the Ganges. Whenever any building is un-undertaken that requires Strength, it muff here, as well as in all other parts of Bengal, be built upon piles: it being impossible to dig three or four feet deep without coming at water. This istria, which is hardly a league in circumference, has been full of manufactures ever since the invasion of the Marattas obliged the natives of the country to retire hither for refuge. Here is a large menu sature of handkerchiefs, and striped muslins; which have, indeed, rather degenerated since their removal This alive spirit of industry has not, however, mad Chandernagore the rival of Calcutta, whose immense riches enables it to undertake the most extensive corn martial enterprizes. AT the distance of a mile from Chandernagore, i Chinfura, better known by the name of Dough, been situated near the suburbs of that antiently renowned cit' The Dutch have no other possessions there, but meres their fort; the territory round it depending on the gi government of the country, which hath frequently made feel its power by its extortions. Another inconvenient attending this settlement is a sand bank that prevent slips from coming up to it: they proceed no farther th Multa, which is twenty miles below Calcutta, and this course occasions an additional expence to administration. THE Portuguese had formerly made Handel, which eighty leagues from the mouth of the Ganges, and a quam of a league above the' Highly, the principal feat of th commerce. Their flag is still displayed, and there ar few unhappy wretches remaining there, who have for ten their country after having been forgotten by This factory has no other employment than that of f plying the Moors and the Dutch with mistresses. THouGH in the months of October, November, December, the frequent and almost continual hurricane ren
render the Gulph of Bengal impracticable; during the re BE 0 K maintenon thereat European ships may enter the Ganges. , Thole that design to go up the river previously make the Segogora, where they are received by pilots of their own nation, who reste at Balafore. The money they bring with them is put on board certain sloops belonging to the harbour of between fitly and a hundred turns, which alia) s precede the ships. The passage into the river Highly lies through a narrow trait between two sand banks. The ships used formerly to come to an anchor at Culpa, but time has worn off the dre-ad of those currents, quicksands, and shoals that seemed to choke up the navigation of the river, and the ships have been brought unto their respective places of destination. This boldness has occasioned many Shipwrecks; but in proportion as more experience has been gained, and the spirit of observation has been car cried further, accidents of that kind have been less frequent It is to be hoped that the example of admiral Watson, who failed as high as Chandernagore in a seventy gun-flip will not be forgotten: as a proper attention to twould save a great deal of time, trouble and expence. BESIDES this great channel, there is another by which goods may be brought from the places which furnish them to the principal settlement of each company. For this purpose a number of small craft are employed, consisting I.f eighty or a hundred boats, and sometimes more. These are manned with black or white soldiers in order to check ile insatiable avarice of the Nabobs and Rajas they meet with ill their passage. The goods purchased in the higher parts of the Ganges, at Patna and Cafiumbazar, are carried down the river Highly: those purchased near the other branches of the Ganges, which are all navigable in the interior parts of the country, and communicate with each other, especially towards the lower division of that river, are conveyed into the Highly by Rangafoula and Batatola, about fifteen or twenty leagues from the sea. From thence 2 ther
B o o K they aie carried i i ths lItic.itt to the principal fettllciilt,Ill.,. belonging ro C:KhI nation.,'I'nr cxpots fill Bill g.l tro I.iroCpe crisis of nun:, gun lac, llit.lIagIla wood, picllpic, cwii%;, and foIIec other ;ii ti: l c l if li'. illpl))l:cli ie i ; ,eli rl ! iltlil('rI 1si , It her l plat C(:. 'ITholc tllit ale tie ilridi.itiiiCe jirllii: o1f ths cmlilily sec borax, f.dllcnle, silk, lil.-ltufi, imuflilln, ;tld ia hinlilied dill'icicnt furl ,f coltoir;.,lI'n bhor.l weir it s l s l sint il the province if Patna, is a 1lriliic f'ibiltaiic, *whilst tillie ciiyiiill ill Ei rope lihav ill vain attcinpltid to couinlirfcit. Shine ol thei lke. i: fir a;l .ilkalinic fill, %liitli i'. fo>iuld cotirilcatly surnamed il tie lict coligny ot li:di!t:;it ollehri r ill hive it to l tile plod.icc l v!¥ok.in,, , (,i 'full laillr'- . firs' lBi this .:s it ii.iy, the ol.ix i. of grant ife ins th: work. ing of mill r i ,y nili:ialilg tIh cart t I rli d plrtic:ilioil. Thetis flibtl.mticc being qtliickl 'iiifictl by tin: action of fire, matt l ic t lltc, l gcicoil ltIi Ite it ire inltrniioed v itch ithft. metals, all Icdntcts tilCrtli tl (iron. TlieC borax is likieifie iidiflpcl ef.bly cii ecl.ily il the ell h hog f mines, ail; this. 1'ileriig (.c inrt.L' 'Ille Duty iu the Save t!L leecct if iriiiiilg it, \wiih. is said t) hal; bl t l)'cn chilli. cllted to filii,, ly found \'Cniti.litn homilies tlli;t came to fed ihlt i noes i tlc united lroi:ccs which they did iot enjoy udllcr this tyranny ol tlhiir irn t aristocratical go. vcrnllillt. Saltire . r. is liker .ife this pr irCee of Patna. It i extracted fr:;n a tlity, v, hill is cither hack, whitish, o0 rcl. The , int;n:r of refii;iL it is by digging a larig pit iln v.hich tins nitrous cast is dcpolltcd, and diiutr v, hit . qlu.iilty of w:atrc, \.hi hi i ks:pit Ili-red till it come to .a ,illfi:ficty . The water having drawn out all tile fal: :sid the g-iolicr pialt friblt;ing at the bottom, the mor illic p:l-ticlc arc tar.kiln ort :nd pitt into another pit nr f,) I.l're as the lfornllr. This fubftallnc having undegron a fco:nd piuifica:tiui, the clear water that swims on th,toi
tn,, and ii totally impregnated wi it nite, i- taken off, P i 0 KI and loil:dl in caldriloi;; it i(iinnied while it is boiling, , and, in a few hollrs, a; nitrous lilt is obtained infinitely superior to any that is found el 'wher. 'iT I'.'lIrp)casn export about len millions (ot p;lo'il for the uLfi. of tlihir friltincnlts ins Asia, or for li'iie ()'iiifiiipioiii in IleiEr re fpl liv' cu' tlitiieC. It i. ,liilit I oi the 1jo for tlirce fool,' :a pounds, at the nulli, :air i: l.l :Ig.in lo IS for tCn i at tlc least. CAsnsurr.riiAn ., wi! hi is' grown rh!l !)y the Ilill of Madaiii il d kija:ia.ll] i, the. ;r:.ll:l instruct tot licnrgal silk, the grcalltl : plt I which is fill,;i(d fruit,, til-rt i.- ritory. The lilk-wvoirrni :ir' l,rrligl.t ip aid ltd there in the famine maner a i i ,l ,ilcr places; but the heat of the climate haltclls tlilni and ikcs them l thrive every ninth in tile year. A Rtcatl (ii:ilIly of (ilk alt cotton: filius are m:lliifal-elCld II(-i, ,li;cli are ciiiull:tecd thiui I): part of Alia: tholfc that arte ingle letlir(ly or si:, :hae fir the molt part carried to De!li. Th y arc prohiihicd in France; and thlrougliirt l ll tir neri of l.UroIpe, the consumption in tie article i' :Ilrinoft enllil(ly conlfiiie( to a few arnuoilines, and a piodimitos mminilrcr of handkerchiefs As for tlihe iiw', unit silk, thee entity coilfl:ncd ill the Eilropcan ll;lllii;.i lt l' i 1e t iillii ltiitd{ It rllncs or four ltinldred t!rlinl':d pciundsl : .'i!. lI ii in gentes r. of a very inifitiir qil:dtl. ill tisil!d, aril ;:;^s: no glolli in dying. It is nl(ld fIr little Cic iiha tone woof in brocades; anti is field tIlpoi the Violet fritz 2:2 to esq livres a quintal. 'he r pau i ;airs thati.ive:i a civil, i.ni industry and Skill fuilicicnt to twill it ill their ,in 'arcni hoifcs, obtain it at a a cl-aper r.:ic. IT twould be a teilioi'; and ltr i i. !t:il;k to etirinierai'e i!1 tile places where sicken :rd rottumos, prope r the r:'i-, or intended to be wort, pi.ill, [phillip or e primi; !i, r Ie 1l: *- nufadiured. It will be firiicicnt to pentii n D:icC' , ; ;'c ;nay be looked upon as i lii gnclcri iiian; ol T canal , , h-eh , tltu
B 0 0 K the greateftvarietyof the finest cottons are to be met withstand in the greatest abundance. THIS town is situated in twenty-four degrees north la. latitude. The fertility of its soil, and the advantages of its situation have long since made it the center of an ex. pensive commerce. The courts of Delhi and Muxadavad are furnished from thence with the cottons wanted for their own consumption. They each of them maintain an agent on the spot to superintend the manufacture of them; who has an authority, independent of the magistrate, over the brokers, weavers, embroiderers, and all the workmen, whose business has any relation to the objet of his come million. These unhappy people are forbidden, under pe. pecuniary and corporal penalties, to sell to any person what. ever a piece exceeding the value of 7z livres a: nor can they, but by dint of money, relieve themselves from this oppression. IN this, as in all the other markets, the European com panes treat with Moorish brokers fettled upon the spot, and appointed by the government. They likewise lend their name to the individuals of their own nation as wel as to Indians and Armenians living in their settlements, who, without this precaution, would infallibly be plan. tered. The Moors themselves, in their private transactions frequently avail themselves of the same pretence, that they may pay only two instead of five per cent.,A DISTINCTION is observed, in their contracts between the cottons, that are bespoken, and those, which the weaver ventures, in some places, to manufacture upon his own account. The length, the number of threads and the price of the former are fixed: nothing further than the commission for the latter is stipulated, because i is impossible to enter into the same detail. Those na :ions that make a point of having fine goods, take pro per treasures, that they may be enabled to advance mone,Thre guineas.,ti
to their workmen at the'beginning of the year. The wear EB 0 0 X,It. vers, who in general have but little employment at that time, perform their work with less hurry than in the months of October, November and December, when the demand is pressing. SOME of the cottons are delivered unbleached, and others half bleached. It were to be willed that this cur tom might be altered. It is very common to see cottons, that look very beautiful, go off in the bleaching. Perhaps, the manufacturers and brokers foresee how they will turn out: but the Europeans have not so exquisite a touch, nor such an experienced eye as to discern this. It is a circum stance peculiar to India that cottons, of what kind soever they are, can never be well bleached and prepared but in the place where they are manufactured. If they have the misfortune to get damaged before they are shipped for Europe, they must be Lent back to the places from whence they came. Amor the cottons purchased at Dacca, the plain, striped and worked muslins are, beyond all comparison, of the greatest importance. Bengal is the only country in India where they are made, as it produces the only cotton proper for that manufacture. It is planted at the end of October, and gathered in February; when it is prepared with all expedition, that it may be ready for the loom in the months of May, June, and July. This is the rainy season; and as the cotton Shrinks more, and is less apt to break at this time, it is therefore the fittest for the purpose of manufacturing muslins. The artists who work at other seasons of the year, give the cotton its requisite degree of moodiness, by dipping the part immediately under the warp into water. In this sense we are to understand what is said of fabricating muffins in water. To whatever degree of fineness there cottons have been brought, it is certain it falls very short of the perfection ps which they are capable. The prince of the govern-,Z 4 ment
B 0 0 K ment in obliging the best manufacturers to work on its,III. . ' "account, in paying them ill, and keeping them in a states captivity, makes them afraid of displaying too much skill. A prevailing spirit of restraint and rigour stifles induRtlr, which though the daughter of necessity, is at the same time the companion of liberty. THE courts of Delhi and Muxadavad lay no great first upon the embroidered work superinduced upon muffins: and the people of the country, the Moors, Patans, and Armenian:, who give large orders, follow their example and take them as they find them. This indifference hin. ders the progress of the art of embroidery. The Euro means agree for embroideries as they do for muslins and other merchandise, with brokers authorized by the go government, to which they pay an annual contribution for this exclusive privilege. These agents assign to the women the prices designed for plate embroideries, and those in chain-work to the men. The Europeans frequently content themselves with Indian patterns; at other times they send patterns for stripes and embroideries. THE sum total of the ptirchafrs made in Bengal by the European nations amounted, a few s-cars ago, to no nm.'r than twenty millions '. One third of this sum was paid in iron, lead, copper, woollens, and Dutch spices: the re painter was discharged in money. Since the English hare made themselves masters of this rich country, its exports have been increased, and its imports diminished, recal!' the conquerors have carried away a greater quantity oi r.crchandiec, and pay for it ont of the revenues they re clive from the country. There is reason to believe, tht This revolution in the trade of Bengal has not arrived at its crisis, and that sooner or later it will be attended ;;i:h .more imlrprlani consequences and effeóAs.,A.rcv^ c,c-rc!,
To maintain their correspondence with this vast country, B 0 O K,IIl. end their other Asiatic settlements, the English company have fixed upon St. Helena as a place of refreshment. English set-,tiemernr at This island, which is only between twenty eight and twenty 5,. Helena, nine miles in circumference, lies in fifteen degrees fifty minutes south latitude, between Africa and America, and almost at an equal distance from those taro quarters of the globe. It does not appear that the Portuguese, who discovered it in 1502, ever established a colony there; but it is certain that, agreeable to their ufilal method, they put en lore tome cattle and poultry forth life of the ships that might touch there. These conveniences afterwards invited the Dutch to form a finally settlement upon the island, which they were afterwards dispossessed of by the English, who have been fettled there ever since the year 1673. Thigh St. Helena appears to be nothing but a large rock, beaten on all sides by the waves, it is nevertheless a delightful place. The climate is more temperate than might be expected; the soil, which is only a foot and a halfdeep, is covered with citrons, palms, pomegranates and other trees, laden with flowers and fruit at the same time; while firearms of excellent water, which nature has distributed better than art could have done, enliven the whole scene. Sloe who are born in this fortunate abode enjoy a perfect state of health ; passengers are here cared of their disorders, particularly of the scurvy. Four 'hundred families, composed of English and of French re figecs, cultivate pulse, and breed cattle, which are of an (requisite flavour, and of great service to the ships crews that put in there. This settlement, wlhiih nature and art hare united to render aloft impregnable, hs, h however, one grands defect; the Slips that return from India to Europe land there with ease and security, but the outward-,anind filius cannot reach this aryhuin, being strongly re pcilld by winds and adverse currents. To avoid the,incon-
B O 0 K inconveniences attending so long a voyage, when made,Hi. m without flopping, several of them put in at the Cape osgood Hope; others, particularly those bound to Arabia and Malabar, take in refreshments at the islands of Co. mora. The sec the THESE islands, that lie in the Mozambique channel, be. ke of the tween the coast of Zanguebar and Madagascar, are fire i tis of in number; the principal one, from which this small archipelago takes its name, is little known. The Portuguese who discovered it in the course of their first expeditions brought the name of Europeans into such detestation b their cruelties, that all who have since ventured to go o store there have either been massacred or very ill treated It has accordingly been quite forsaken. The islands ( Mayota, Moeti, and Juan, are not more frequented on account of the difficulty of approaching them, and th want of a safe anchorage. The English vests put in the island of Joanna. HERE it is that, within the compass of thirty league nature displays all her riches, with all her implicit Hills ever green, and vallies ever gay, every where prese a variety of delightful landscapes. Thirty thousand inh giants, distributed into seventy-three villages, share productions. They speak the Arabic language, and th religion is a very corrupt fort of Mohammedanism; til moral principles are more refined than they usually are this part of the globe; the habit they have contracted living upon milk and vegetables has given them an once durable aversion from labour. From this indolence arise certain air of grandeur, which, in the people of diftinfti0 consists in letting their nails grow to an immoderate long To give a beauty to this negligence, they tinge them v4 a yellowish red, which they extra from a shrub these people, born to indolence, have lost that like which they, doubtless, came hither to enjoy from a nes pouring continent, of which they were the original in,bita
giants. An Arabian trader, not quite a century ago, B O O K having killed a Portuguese gentleman at Mozambique, ,y . threw himself into a boat, which chance conducted to Joanna. This stranger made such good use of his superior abilities, and the affiance of a few of his countrymen, that he acquired an absolute authority, which is still main gained by his grandson. This change in the government did not at all diminish the liberty and security enjoyed by the English, who landed upon the island. They conti pied to put their sick on shore without molestation, where the salubrity of the air, the excellence of the fruits, pro visions and water, soon restored them to health. They were only obliged to give a higher price for the provisions they wanted, for which the following reasons may be as signed. THE Arabians having been induced to frequent an island governed by an Arab, have brought the Indian manufactures into vogue; and as the cowries, cocoa-nuts, and other commodities they received in exchange, were pot sufficient to defray the expence of this article of luxury, the islanders have been obliged to demand money for their goats and poultry, which they before exchanged for glass beads, and other baubles of as little value. This innovation has not, however, made the English desert a place presentiment, which has no other inconvenience than that of being at too great a distance from our latitudes. A SIMILAR inconvenience did not prevent the English TheEngliih company from extending their trade very considerably. coleman The intercourse carried on between one port of India and country another was too confined, and of too little consequence, to trade t"Pn-,-vate ad-ea- engage their attention for any long time. They were turners. soon sufficiently enlightened to perceive that it was not for their interest to continue this kind of commerce; and therefore invited the private traders of their own nation to embark in it. They lent them their assistance, by taking a there in their expeditions, and granting them privileges,on
B O 0 K on board their own fleets, and frequently even undertook e l , to be the carriers of their merchandise at a low freight this generous behaviour refitting from a national spirit, and so diametrically opposite to that of other companies, quickly gave activity, strength', and credit, to the English settlements. Their free merchants twere foro in p',fll'fion of a dozen brigantines, that were employed within tie Ganges, or were difl,atclcd from thelne to, Ascham, Veda, Johor and Vigor. 'I'hey fitted out ;in crtual oimbr of larger vessels from Calcutta, Mnlir:fit, all Bonlay, which frequented all the sea-ports in the cast. 'These vcfl'r would have been still more numerous, had not the coin. any ex.itcde a duty of five per cent. in all the places where they had settlements, and eight and a half per cent. ui,nil all the remittances made by the free merchants to tie capital. When their nc iefliies did not compel them to recede from this iluncceunt.ihlc arrangement, thetis er. clan ts lent their mon y upon bottomless, sometimes to other Fr:rope.nr merchants that wanted it, but most fre. quietly to tic captains of ships belonging to their own nation, who, not heiin shrilly dependent upon the con. any, can traffic far others in the voyages they make for them. ;' cr-ris Ai' its first rill thai great body was ambitious of main. n; Ij'i- ,I gaining a maritime f,,r '. This was quite laid alidc wire k-r,,uiI!.!,r it resumed its opetrari,.: i l the time of the Protector. our. laving nothing then in v;!.Vw hut profit, they resolved disembark their good; onr private bottoms ; and what wos then cone through n c- , Sty' hI r since been continued through crony. Whet re arc ercolnts who furnish when with ship, ccnmp!ctLy listed and victualled, to carry out to India, and bli: Ig Sack to Europe, filch t;T:rober of tons as they cr-inrai flor. T he time they aro to n y ::t the place of their destination is always fixed Thine which happen to ha'. no cargo to bring hack, ar i;i'ially liirtdi by Ib;me free n:trch:nt, who engages toin,de iii.
dignify the owner. These are always the first sent home B O O K the following year, to prevent their rigging from being too IT. inuchl worn. In cases of necessity the company will equip them out of their own storehouses; but they oblige them to pay at the stipulated rate of fifty per cent. advance on their. Tut vessels employed in this navigation carry from fix to eight hundred tons bu-den. At their departure the company occupy jiftl fu inch room as is sufficient to hold their iron, their lead, their copper, their woollens, and Madeira wine, which are the only mterrha;niiife they send to India. The owners arc allowed to store the re meaning part of each vcfl:l *ili the provisions necessary for so long a voyage, and any other articles which tile society they arc coleccrndc for do not trade in. On their return, they have likewise a right to assign to any use they think proper a space equal to thirty tons, which, by their contra, is referred to themselves: they may even take in the same articles as are embarked for the company. Till lately they unfed to pay the company thirty per cent. on the value of these commodities; but since the sift. of Sober 1773, this duty has been reduced to one-half. It was thought that this indulgence ould dispose the owners and their agents more punctually to fulfil their engagements, and would put a flop to fraudulent importations The spirit of humanity, which is more common in free states than in others, has in England given rise to a very commendable custom: the surgeon of each ship that arrives from India receives, besides his pay, twenty-two livres, ten fols a, by way of gratuity for every man in the flip's company that he brings back to Europe. THE company, disengaged from the trouble necessarily Calls of attending the maintenance of a marine, as well as from theco,-' the country trade in India, had no other object to take up their attention than the commerce carried on directly between Europe and Alia. They entered upon it with a,SNear a pouud.,capital
B (1 K capital of 8,3zz,5s7 livres o foul a; and, in 1676, hay. L -,. . ing, by fortunate events, been enabled to make a divisions cent. per cent. they thought it most for their interea to double their capital. This capital Rill kept increasing, till in 170o the two companies that had so obstinately opposed each other, threw their wealth, their plans, and their hopes, into one coition flock. It has since lifcnl to seventy-two millions b divided into shires, originally of 1,1zSc, and afterwards of z,z0o livres I. Event of THE trade was, in the beginning, carried on with great tZa' 'r ' l spirit and success, notwithstanding the smallness of their flock. As early as the year 16z8, the company employed twelve thousand tons of slipping, arid four thoulf:id sea men. Their expeditions varied in an inconceivable man. ner; and were more or less considerable, according to the ignorance or capacity of thsofc who conducted them; the different states of peace or war, the property or miser. tunes of the metropolis, the fondness or indifference f the Europeans for Indian manufactures; and the different degrees of competition they met with from other nations. Since the beginning of the present century, there changes have been neither so frequent, nor so remarkable. The trade has ccn established upon a more filed basis, and the tales have risen to fevcnty.ci,,ht millions '. THEIR amount would have been still greater, had it not been for the restraints that are laid upon then. TI enter into a detail of theft would be too long and too mi. note a taft. It u: ill be ffiiciit to mention, that every ship returning from India is obliged to unlade in England, and that those v. lich bring prohibited goods are compelled to land them at the port of London. 'he cottons am stuffs that course from there countries pay very high cities thos levied upon tea are fill higher. If the government hoped, by ;la ing on so cnut-nous a tax, to abate the cx,364,11 1t. 9,1. 3-fool . C Not quite 5n. d Lit YIIe L0 . Aise 3.4;ooc 1I.,ccsir
tefive fondness of the people for this liquor, its expefa- B O O K,I'. tions have not been answered. Tea was introduced into England by the Lords Arlington and Offory, who imported it from Holland in 1666, and their ladies brought it into fashion among people of their own rank. At that time it sold in London for sixty seven or sixty-eight livres' a pound, though it colt but three or four at Batavia. Notwithstanding the price was kept up with very little variation, the fondness for this liquor gained ground; it was not, however, brought into common use till towards the year 1715, when green tea began to be drank, whereas till then no fort was known but the bohea. The fondness for this Asiatic leaf has since become universal. Perhaps, the phrenzy is not without its inconveniencies; but it cannot be denied, that it has con tribute more to the sobriety of the nation than the severest laws, the molt eloquent harangues of christian orators, or the bell treatises of morality. IN 1766 fix millions of pounds of tea were brought from China by the English, four millions five hundred thousand by the Dutch, two millions four hundred thousand by the Swedes, the same quantity by the Danes, and two millions one hundred thousand b) the French. The film total of there quantities amounts to seventeen millions four hun died thousand pounds. The preference given by most nations to chocolate, coffee, and other liquors, joined to a series of observations carefully pursued for several years, and the moll exact calculations, that can possibly be made in filch complicated cases, inclines us to think that the whole consumption throughout Europe does not exceed five millions four hundred thousand pounds. In this case, that of Great Britain must be twelve millions. IT is universally allowed, that there arc at least two millions in the mother country, and a million ins the colo nies, who constantly drink tea. It is not unreasonable About 31.,to
B 0 0 K to suppose, that each individual consumes four pounds its, a year; but should the quantity be something less, the deficiency is supplied by those who are less attached to it, and for this reason have not been taken into the account. A pound of tea, which costs only thirty fols a in the East, constantly fells in England for fix livres ten fols b, in eluding the duty; consequently the rage for this Asiatic leaf costs the nation about seventy-two millions c. To oppose the entries of the custom-house to this com potation would argue either ignorance or artifice. It is true that the amount of the duties, which, according to this calculation, ought to be about 18,000,000 livres d, is hardly half so much i but the contraband trade in this commodity carried on in England is notorious. The government itself is so thoroughly convinced of it, that, in order to lessen it, it has lately lowered the duty twenty fols c a pound. In all probability it would have been fill more generous, had it not unfortunately been under the necessity of considering its customs as a resource of finance, rather than as the thermometer of its commerce. This relaxation, which of itself is not sufficient to prevent the teas in the different ports of Europe from being smuggled into Great Britain, has been rendered more efficacious by the national acquisition of the Isle of Man, which belonged to the Athol family. THOUGH most branches of the public revenue have been increased by an arrangement, which deprived the illicit trader of his most convenient market, the India Company have been particularly benefited by it. As their commo cities were subjected to higher duties than any others, the clandestine importation of them was more common, and was principally carried on by the Isle of Man, which is admirably situated to receive vessels from the North. Tea was the favourite object of this contraband trade. The,* About is. 4d. b Near fix willing. c Abut 3;o,it5l. * Nar 79o,o;oL 10 d.,z English
',glifh company will not fail, in future, to provide as B O O K much stock as may answer their demands, and to secure - to themselves the advantages which their rivals ravished from them within the limits of their own empire. THE teas and other merchandise that arrive from India are paid for in money. The government which is not ignorant of this, has limited the exportation of specie to 6,750,000 livres i. This unaccountable restrain, so unworthy a commercial people, neither has been or can be carried into execution. The sums registered are always much higher, but this indulgence does not prevent con miserable sums being clandestinely carried abroad without the knowledge of the customhouse officers. These frau talent practices have increased in proportion as the trade has become more extensive; and the money sent out of the kingdom, has been long computed at one third of the profit arising from the sales. THIS exportation of specie would have been more con miserable if the company had adhered to that article in their charter, by which it is provided, that they stall ex port in merchandise of their own nation, the value of the tenth part of what they take in money upon their vessels. They have constantly made a charge for much greater sums in brass, lead, and English cloths, without reckoning the profits made in India upon iron from Sweden and Biscay, and other articles taken from several countries of Europe. THEIR advocates, in order to reinstate them in the good opinion of the public, which they have but seldom en toyed, have frequently asserted, that this body occasioned as much money to be brought into the country, as they carried out of it. This plea caused such a warm alter cation in the beginning of the present century, that the government thought the question not unworthy of its at,, Ab'-t )95,ocol, VOL. I, A a mention,
B 0 0 K mention. It was found by consulting the registers, that from the end of December 17z1 to the end of December 1717, 52,563,o37 livres lo fols had been exported to India. From all circumstances it appeared, that the call chances. tinelv carried out amounted, at least, to one half; and that consequently, there could be no mistake in estimating the amount of both these sums at 78,844,566 livres 5 sols. The sums remitted home by the company, in the same space of time, amounted to 75,058,391 livres 5 sols. Thus, supposing there calculations to be just, the consumption of the Asiatic productions in England for five years, should not have risen so high as 3,786,165 livres: but there is reason to believe that it rose much higher and that a great deal of merchandise apparently sold to foreigners, never stirred out of the kingdom. The partiality that has lately prevailed in favour of Scotch and Irish linens, printed in England, and the encrease of the silk manufacture, by lessening the demand for contraband goods, must of ne. effigy render the commerce of the East more advantageous to the nation. Before the year 1720, Great Britain annually consumed three millions seven hundred and fifty thou. sand yards of India cottons; but this consumption it greatly diminished. ::r'd'e.-&f IT is not to be supposed, that any changes could happen Ie i'oir.-s in the relative state of the Indian trade with the govern-ment in general, without producing some alterations in the private fortunes of the proprietors. Their profits have, at certain periods, been enormous; at others, very slender. The Shares have been regulated in conformity to these variations. The dividend, which, for a long time, had been no more than seven per cent. was, ir 1743, raised to eight. It was afterwards reduced to fix, in 1;66 it role to ten, and since that time to twelve and a half. This was more than the situation of the company) · ,:,99,63:1. 17 d. b 3449,4491. 3 3,:s3,S; :1. s. d. ; d About 165,6451.,coulC
could afford; since, at this period, they had little more B o o K,11. remaining than their original capital. If this be the case, , how has it happened that so ender a capital should, in the opinion of the public, have acquired the value of 80o,Coo,ooo a, which is the amount according to the price of the stock? THIS objection i; not answerable. The enthusiasm of the English is well known. It has repeatedly been excited by circumstances that would not have made the least impression on the most volatile and trifling people. An important event has forcibly drawn the whole nation into its vortex. They have abandoned themselves with all the impetuosity of their character, to the vast prospers that have been opened to them by the late conquest of Bengal. SHOULD it be asked, if this astonishing revolution, Conquest of which has had so sensible an influence, both upon the Adna.ges state of the inhabitants of this part of Asia, and upon drawn by the trade of the European nations !n these climates, hath frown this been the consequence and result of a series of political acquiftion,,and the con schemes-If it be one of those events, of which prudence duck thy has a right to claim the sole merit? We shall answer; No. have hitherto observed. Chance alone has determined it: and the circumstances that have opened this field of glory and power to the English far from promising them the success they have had, seemed on the contrary to threaten them with the most fatal reverse of fortune. A PERNICIOUS custom had for some time prevailed in these countries. The governors of all the European set elements took upon them to grant an asylum to such of the natives of the country as were afraid of oppression or punishment. As they received very considerable sums in return for their protection, they overlooked the danger, to which the interests of their principals were exposed by this proceeding. One of the chief officers of Bengal, who was apprized of this resource, took refuge among the,Abt't 1Z,250.sO,0.,A a English
B O OK English at Calcutta to avoid the punishment due to his - , , treachery. hic was taken under their protection. The,subah, justly irritated, put himself at the head of his .army, attacked the place, and took it. He put the gar ripon into a close dungeon, where they were suffocated in the space of twelve hours. Three and twenty of them only remained alive. These wretched people offered large sums to the keeper of their prison, to prevail upon him to get their deplorable situation represented to the prince. Their cries and lamentations were sufficient informations to the people who were touched w with compassion; but no one would venture to address the despotic monarch upon the subject. The expiring English were told that he was afitep; nd there was not, perhaps, a tingle person in Bengal who the Light that the tyrant's slumbers should be interrupted, c.cn to preserve the lives of one hundred and fifty unfortunate men. AD:iiRA.L \a Jlk:l, who was Just arrived in India with his l.ud;c.n, :sid Cl-loncl Clive who haud so remarkably di:-. :gi:!dhi. 1:im.f:!f in the war of the Carnatic, did not hesitate to-terse the cause of their country. They got together the English who had been dispersed, and were flying frcm plcc to place, they went up the Ganges in the s.c::th of December 1756, retook Calcutta, made thetaflv. es mailers of several other places, and gained a compleat viginti oSer the fublh. Sv-cit a rapid and exteni;-e t'iccefs becomes in a manner inconceivable, sis hn we confider that it was only with a body of five hundred men that the Eiglifin were Io stand against the whole force of Bengal. But if their superiority v as partly owing to their better discipline, and to other - indent advantages that the Europeans have in battle over the Indian i,on.crs; the ambition of eaiern chefs, the avarice of thir ministers, and the nature of a gc;.ri.menr, whose only springs are fear and present il tcrcer, wer; :. ;1 lmoCre cff.-c.u-l service to them: they,had
had experience enough to take advantage of the concur B 0 O K hence of these several circumstances in their first attack, , and in all that succeeded it. The subah became detested by all his own people, as tyrants generally are, the principal officers sold their interest to the English; he was betrayed at the head of his army, the greatest part of which refused to engage; and he himself sell into the hands of his ene mies, who caused him to be strangled in prison. THEY disposed of the fubahlhip in favour of Jasper Ally-Khan, the ringleader of the conspiracy; who ceded to the company some provinces with a grant of every privilege exemption and favour, to which they could have any pretence. But soon growing weary of the yoke he had brought upon himself, he was secretly looking out for means to get rid of it. His designs were discovered, and he was arrested in the center of his own capital. Coss. M-ALLY-KIr;.N, his nephew, was proclaimed in his stead. He had purchased that usurpation with an im mense sum of money. But he did not enjoy it long. Impatient of the yoke, as his predecessor had been, he gave some tokens of his intractability, and refused to sub mit to thaws the company imposed upon him. Upon this the war broke out again. The same Jaffier-Ally-Khan, whom the English kept a prisoner, was again proclaimed fibah of Bengal. They marched against Cofimn-Ally-Klihan. His general officers were corrupted: he was betrayed and entirely defeated: too happy, that whilst he lost his dig nity,he still preserved the immense treasures he had amassed. Notwithstanding this revolution, Ccfim-Ally did not drop his hopes of vengeance. Full of resentment, and loaded with treasure, he set out for the nabob of Ba nares, chief vizir in the Mogul's empire. He and all the neighbouring princes re-united in opposition to the common enemy, who threatened them all equally. But now the contest lay no longer between them and a hand ful of Europeans just arrived from the coast of Coroman,,Aa del;
B o o K del; they were to engage with the whole strength of Ben cl gal, of which the English were masters. Elated with their successes, they did not wait to be attacked; they set out di. realty and made head against so formidable a league, march ing on with all the confidence which Clive couldinfpire, a leader, whose name seemed to have become the pledge of conquest. However, Clive did not care to hazard any thing. Part of the campaign was spent in negociations; but in time the treasures which the English had drawn from Bengal, served to censure them new conquests. The heads of the Indian army were corrupted; and whca the nabob of Benares was desirous of coming to action, he uas obliged to fly with his men without cher being able to engage.,EB this vi theory, the country Benares sell into the hands of thes English: and it fenced as if nothing could hinder them from annexing that sovereignty to that of ,c:ga.l: but either from moderation or prudence, they ;:-re content to levy eight .i!!ions by contribution: and they cfered peace to the nabob on conditions which :would re;.dcr him incapable of doing them any hurt; but filch as they were, hIe mohr readily agreed to them, that he might regain the possession of his own provinces. IN the midst of these calamities, Coffin-Ally still found means to preserve part of his treasures, and retired to the Cheeks, a people situated in the neighbourhood of Delhi, from whence he made an attempt to procure some allies, and to raise upa body of enemies to oppose the English. While matters were thus circumstanced in Bengal, the Mogul having been driven out of Delhi by the Patrons, by whom his son had been set up in his room, was wan during from one province to another in search of a place of refuge in his own territories, and requeftingfuccour from hi owen kaffirs but without success. Abandoned by his sub ji;; . '!,irye;! by his allies, without support, without .:.; y; he was allured by the power of the Elg-,1 ',lish,
lish, and implored their protection, they promised to con B 0 O K duet him to Delhi, and re-establish him on his throne; j but they began by causing him to cede to them before hand the absolute sovereignty over Bengal. This celia was made by an authentic at, and attended with all the formalities usually practised throughout the Mogul empire. THE English, securely possessed of this title, which was to give a kind of legitimacy to their usurpation, at least in the eyes of the vulgar, soon forgat the promises they had made. They gave the Mogul to understand that particular circumstances would not sussex them to he con cornet in such an enterprize; that some better opportunity was to be hoped for; and to make up for all his losses, they assigned him a pension of fix millions a with the re venue of Allahabad, and Shah Ichanabad or Delhi; upon which that unfortunate prince was reduced to fulfils himself in one of the principal towns of the province of Benares, where he has taken up his residence. Thus the Mogul empire comes to be shared between two governing powers, one which is acknowledged in the several districts of India, where the English company has any establish ments and authority, the other in each provinces as border on Delhi, and in those parts to which the influence of that company does not extend. THE English, thus become sovereigns of Bengal, have thought it incumbent on them to keep up the shadow of ancient forms, in a country where they have the lead, and, perhaps, the only power that is likely to be secure and lasting. They govern the kingdom still under the name of a nabob, who is of their nomination and in their pay. and seems to give his orders. It is from him that all pub hic as seem to proceed and illuc, though the decrees in sad of the council at Calcutta; lb th tithe people, not withstanding their change of mailers, h:a-e for a considerable time been induced to believe, tl]ht this stili flbmit.'i but to the same yoke.,nn~ ~ ~ ~~ Ir·~~~1
B 0 O .K I we should wish to know the amount of the public re-avenues of Bengal, we shall find at the period of the con quest, it was equal to fourscore millions a. The outgoings, either for the government, or defence of the province, were stated at 41 millions b; fix millions c were agreed to be given to the Mogul, and three millions d to the nabob; so that the remainder to the company was thirty millions c. Their purchases in the different marts of India might ab sort a great part of this sum, but still it has been thought there must after all remain a surplus of several millions to be carried into Great Britain. THuS new arrangement of matters without having wrought any fusible change in the exterior form of the English company, has essentially changed their object. They are no longer a trading body, they are a territorial power which farms out its revenues in aid of a commerce that formerly was their sole existence, and which, notwithstanding the extension it has received, is no more than an additional objet in the various combinations of their present real grandeur. The arrangements intended to give stability to a situation so prosperous are, perhaps, the molt reasonable :hat can' be. England has at present in India an cf-:b!ifinment to the amount of nine thousand eight hundred European troops, and fifty-four thousand fipahi; well armed ad well-disciplined. Three thousand of th:c! Europeans, and twenty-site thousand spahis ate diFpr:rd along :h2 L',rdcrs of the Ganges. T71iE rmto co.Ederab!e body of theft troops has been fl:ric-ed in Ber-res, once the nurse of Indian science, and stili the most famous academy of there rich countries, :he:cre Euro; .-: avarice pays no regard to any thing. This fi:util," is chosen because it appeared favourable for i-,'p-ing :'e descent of the warlike mountaineers of te north i; zi::d in case of attack, the maintaining sofa war, , r - 5t:''''l. 7 ,~? . ~' zs,SC:!. :;3:,;5c!. b,3r;,jco Il,in
in a foreign territory would be less ruinous than in the B O O K countries of which the company is to receive the revenues. On the south, as far as it has been found practicable, they have occupied all the narrow pares by which an enter prizing and active adversary might attempt to penetrate into the province. Dacca, which is in the center of it, fees under its walls a considerable force always ready to fly wherever their presence may be necessary. All the nabobs and rajahs, who are dependent on the subah of Bengal are disarmed, surrounded by spies in order to discover their conspiracies, and by troops to render them ineffectual. IN case of any unlucky revolution which might oblige the various power to change its quarters, and abandon its poss, they have constructed a fort near Calcutta called Fort William, which, in case of urgent necessity, would serve as a place of refuge for the arms, should they be forced to retreat, and give time to expect the necessary reinforcements for the recovery of their superiority. This fort is a regular ofagon with eight bastions, several counter-guards, and some half moons already begun with out a glacis, or covered was. The ditch of this fort may he about one hundred and sixty feet broad, its depth nearly eighteen. On the side of the Ganges, the place is least strong, and the curtains are covered only with retains, over which there is a double battery raised on piles. The principal inconvenience of this citadel, whose construction cost twenty millions a, is, that it does not serve to protect Calcutta, which is now become the city of the greatest importance in India, whole people amount to fix hundred thousand fouls, and has prodigious riches centered within her walls, and by a variety of circumstances is now become the theatre of a most extensive commerce: It mar necessarily he that wholesomeness of the air, and the advantage of a very fortunate position has prevailed ver every other conlideration.,NOT With
o o K NOTWITHSTANDING the wise precautions taken by the I . English, they are not, and cannot be, without apprehensions. The Mogul power may gain strength, and wish to rescue one of its finest provinces out of the hands of a so. reign oppressor. They have reason to fear that the bar barons nations may be again allured by the softness of the climate. The princes now at variance may, perhaps, put an end to their contests, and re-unite in favour of their common liberty. It is not impossible but the Indians, who are in the pay of the victorious English, and actually constitute their force, nay one day turn upon them those arms of which they have been taught the use. The gran. dear of the company, founded solely on delusion, may, perhaps, moulder away without their being actually driven from what they posses. It is well known that the Ma rattan have their eyes continually turned towards this fine country, and are constantly threatening it with invasion. Unless the English are successful enough, either by bri berD-, oi intrigue, to divert the storm, Bengal will be the object of pillage and rapine, whatever measures may be taken to oppose a light cavalry, whose alertness exceeds every thing we can say of it. The incursions of these ravagers may be repeated; and then they will have left tribute to pay, but their expence must be increased. Supposing, however, that none of the mischiefs we have ventured to foresee, should take place, is it likely that the revenues of Bengal should always continue the same ? We muff have leave to doubt it. The English company nn longer exports any silver, but even carries away some for the use of their fairies. Their merchants agent's make immense fortune., and even private persons gain a tolerable competence, which they repair to the capital to enjoy. The other European nations find in the treasures of this ruling p;.-cr, accommodations which make it unnecessary to introduce ie;:- bullion. Must not all these combination a:-a; ro b: :i about a blank in the reckoning ci,tll0;t
hose countries, and such as will sooner or later force itself B 0 O K to be left in the making up of the public accounts ? THAT period might be at tome distance, indeed, if the English respecting the rights of humanity were to rid those countries of the oppression under which they have continued to groan for so many ages. Then Calcutta, far from being an objet of terror to the Indians, would be rendered a tribunal always open to the complaints of those unhappy sufferers whom tyranny should dare to mo left. Property would grow into respect, so that the treasure which has been buried so long would be drawn out of the bowels of the earth, and fulfil its destined purpose. Agriculture and manufactures be encouraged to such a degree, that the objets of export would become from day to day more considerable, and the company by following such maxims as these, instead of being driven to the ne reality of lessening the tributes which they found established might possibly find means to bring about an aug mentation consistent with the general satisfaction of the natives. Let it not be said that such a plan is chimerical. The English company of itself has already proved the possibility of it. THE Europeans, who have acquired any territory in India, for the most part choose for their farmers the na times of the country, from whom it is common to exact such considerable turns in advance, that in order to pay them they are obliged to borrow at an exorbitant interest The distress which thlce greedy farmers voluntarily bring on themselves, obliges them to exact of the in habitants to whom they underlet fiume parcels of the land, so considerable a rent, that the poor wretches quit their villages, and abandon them for ever. The contractor ruined by this elopement, which renders him insolvent is diifmiir'tl to make room for a fiucceli)r, who com-,e:e;y mrcet : with .he ;'.;.c :' ; l :hat it ;ry frequently opens
B o o K happens that nothing but the first um deposited is ever,. received from the estate, or very little more different fiefs have been taken in the English colo nies, on the coast of Coromandel. It had been observed that the villages had been formed by several families, who for the most part were connected with each other; this re mark served to banish the custom of employing farmers. Every land was taxed at a rent certain by the year, and the head of the family was security for his relations and connexions. This method united the colonists one with another, and created in them a disposition as well as the means of affording themselves a reciprocal support. This has occasioned the rise of the settlements of that nations to the utmost degree of prosperity they were capable of receiving; while those of her rivals were languishing for want of cultivation and manufactures, and consequently of population. WHY must a mode of contra which does so much ho your to reason and humanity not be extended beyond the small tcrr:to-r of Madras; i Can it then be true that moderation cf temper is a virtue singly attached to mode rate fortunes The Enlgiili company till these latter times had always held a conduct superior to that of the other settlements. Their agents, their factors, were w-ell chosen. The most part of them vere s young men of good families, already instructed in the rudiments of commerce, and such as were not africa, when the service of their country called upon them to cross those seas which England con riders b.-t as a p-rt of her empire. The company had gcneraW;y re-garde ti heir commerce in a great calc, and had almost always carried it en like an association of true politicians as weil as a body of merchants. Upon the r:hn.le the !?-.2er, merchants and follies had remained rn.-'re hcin;:: , more regularity, and more manliness than g.-.a'e of t a c .seer n.- ta:xo.,Wit0
WHO would ever have imagined that this fane company, B O O K by an immediate alteration of conduct, and change of t system should soon make the people of Bengal regret the despotism of their ancient matters ? That fatal revolution has been but too sudden and too real. A fettled tyranny has taken the place of arbitrary authority. The exactions are become general and stated, the oppression continual and absolute. The destructive art of monopolies is car cried to perfection, and new ones have been even invented. In a word, they have altered and tainted the public sources of confidence and happiness. UNDER the government of the Mogul Emperors, the subahs, who had the care of the revenues, were, from the nature of the business, obliged to leave the receipt of them to Nabobs, Polygamy, and Jemadar, who were a fort of under-security to other Indians, and these frill to others; so that the produce of the lands passed on, and was partly sunk amidst a multitude of intermediate hands, before it came into the coffers of the flubah, who, on his part, delivered but a very small portion of it to the emperor. This administration, faulty in many refers, had in it this favourable circumstance for the people, that the far mers never being changed, the rent of the farms re gained always the same; because the least encrease, as it disturbed the whole chain of advantage v which every one perceived in his turn, would infallibly have occasioned a revolt: a terrible resource, but the only one left in favour of humanity in countries groaning under the oppressions of despotic rulers. IT is probable that in the mid of the regulations there were many injuries and partial ditches. But, at least, as the receipt of the public monies v as made upon a fixed and moderate assessment, emulation was not wholly extinguished. The cultivators of the land being sure of laying up the produce of their harvey, after paying sith exactness the rate of their farm, iiPftcd the natural good-,3 ces
B o 0 K ness of the soil by their labour; the weavers, mailers of,Mu.,the price of their works, being at liberty to make choice of the buyer which best suited them, exerted themselves in extending and improving their manufactures. Both the one and the other, being easy on the head of their subsistence, yielded with satisfaction to the most delightful inclinations of nature, or the prevailing fancy of their climate; and beheld in the encrease of their family nothing more than the means of augmenting their riches. Such are evidently the reasons why industry, agriculture, and population, have been carried to such a length in the province of Ben gal. One would think they might still be carried further under the government of a free people, friends to huma. city; but the thirst of money, the most devouring, the most cruel of all passions, has given rise to a pernicious and destructive government. THE English, become sovereigns of Bengal, scarce con tent to receive the revenues on the same footing as the ancient subahs, have been fibrous all at once to augment the produce of the farms, and to appropriate to them selves the rents. To accomplish both these objects, they are become the farmers to their own subah, that is, to a creature on whom they have just conferred that empty title, the more securely to impose on the Indian people. The consequence of this new plan has been to pillage the farmers, in order to substitute in their room the company's agents. They have also monopolized the sale of fait, to banco, and betel, object of the first necessity in those countries but they have done this under the name, and apparently on the account of the subah. They have gone frill further, and have obliged the very same subah to establish in their favour an exclusive privilege for the sale of cotton coming from any other province, in order to raise it to an exorbitant price. They have had the duties augmented, and, to conclude all, have obtained an edit, which has been,publifled,
published, to forbid all private Europeans trading in the B 0O K interior parts of Bengal, and leaving it open and lawful only for the English. WHEN we reflect on such a barbarous prohibition, it seems as if it had been contrived only to exhaust all the powers of doing mischief to that unfortunate country, whole prosperity, for their own fake, ought to be the only object of the English company. Besides, it is easy to see that the personal avarice of the members of the council at Calcutta has dictated that shameful law. Their desire was to ensure to themselves the produce of all the manufactures at length to force the merchants of other nations, who chose to trade from one part of India to another, to purchase these articles of them at an exorbitant price, or to renounce their undertakings. BUT still in the midst of this overbearing conduce, so contrary to the advantage of their constituents, these treacherous agents have attempted to disguise themselves under the mask of zeal. It was necessary, say they, to ex port to England a quantity'ofmerchandife proportioned to the extent of her commerce, but the competition of private traders was prejudicial to the purchases of the company. UNDER the same pretext, and in order to extend this exclusion to the foreign settlements while they appear to respect their rights, they have of late years ordered more merchandise than Bengal could furnish. At the same time the weavers have been forbidden to work for other nations until the English orders were compleated. Thus the workmen, not being any longer at liberty to choose among the several purchasers, have been forced to deliver the fruits of their labour at the price they were pleased to give for them. LET us consider too how these workmen have been paid. Here reason is confounded; we are at a loss for excuses or pretexts. The English, conquerors of Bengal, possessors of the immense treasures which the fruitfulness of the foil,,and
B O O K and the industry of the inhabitants, had got together,. have ventured to take upon themselves to alter the values the specie. They have set the example of this meanness unknown to the despotic rulers of Asia; and it is through this disgraceful act that they have announced to the natives their sovereignty over them. It is true that such an ope ration, To contrary to the fidelity of trade and the public faith, could not last long. The company themselves found the pernicious esprits of it, and was resolved to call in all the false coin, in order to replace it with other money, perfectly conformable to that which was always current in those countries. But let us attend to the manner in which so necessary an alteration was conducted. THEY have struck in gold rupees to the amount of about fifteen millions a nominal value, but which represented in fact but nine millions b; for four-tenths, or something more, was alloy. All who were found to possess there gold rupees of false alloy, were enjoined to bring them into the treasury at Calcutta, where they should be reimbursed for them in salver rupees; but instead of ten rupees and a half of silver, which each gold rupee ought to be worth, according to its rate they gave them but fix; so that the amount of the alloy became the clear loss of the holder of their money. AN oppression so general must necessarily be attended with violence; and consequently they have several times been obliged to have recourse to force of arms to carry into execution the orlcrs of the council at Calcutta. These forces have not bee cnploycd against the Indians alone; tumults and military preparations have again broke out on all sides, even in the rr.id!t of peace. The European; have been exposed to signal acts of hostility, and particularly the French, who, notwithstanding their being so re duce, and so ; e:.k, hav stil! excited thejealoufy of their former rivals.,*6;t,e5:L . 33,75c 1.,IF
IF to the picture of public distresses we i'ere to add that B o 0 F,II. of private extortions, we should find the agents of the , - company, almost every where, examine their tribute with extreme rigour, and railing contributions for them with the utmost cruelty. We Should see them carrying a kind inquisition into every family, and fitting in judgment upon every fortune; robbing indiscriminately the artizan and the labourer, imputing it as a crime against him that he is not sufficiently rich, and punishing him accordingly. We (hould view them selling their favour and their credit, as well to oppress the innocent as to skreen the guilty. We should find in co:ife'lue.ce of these irregularities, de fair seizing every heart, and an universal dejection getting the better of every mind, both tending to a general flop in the progress and activity of commerce, agriculture, and population. IT will he thought, without doubt, after these details, it was impossible that Bengal should have frenl evils to dread. But, however, as if the elements, in league with mankind, had intended to bring all at once upon the same peoplec,every calamity that by turns lays waste the universe, a drought of which there never had been an instance in thole climates, came upon them, and prepared the way for a most dreadful fragile in a country of all the most fertile. IL Bengal they have two harvest; one in April, the other in October. The sirs, called the little harvest, consuls of the meaner grain;. the second, filed the grand harvest, is singly of rice. The rains which com hence regularly in the month of August, and end in the middle of October, are the occasion of these different productions; and it was by a drought ihichl happened in ice, at the season when the rains are expected, that there was a failure in the great hard et of r;69, and the lesser harvest of 1770. It is true that tile rice on the higher grounds did not suffer greatly by this disturbance of the seasons, but there ass far from a sufficient quantity for the VOL. I. B b nourishment
B o O K nourishment of all the inhabitants of the country; add tow which, the English, who were engaged before hand to take proper care of their subsistence, as well as of the spahis belonging to them, did not fail to keep locked up in their magazine a part of the grain, though the harvest withal was insufficient. THEY have been accused of having made a very bad use of that necessary foresight, in order to carry on the moR odious and the most criminal of all monopolies. It may be true that such a horrible method of acquiring riches may have tempted rome individuals, but that the chief agents of the company, that the council of Calcutta could have adopted and ordered such a destructive operation, that, to gain a few millions of rupees, the council should coolly have devoted to destruction several millions of their fellow creatures, and by the most cruel means; this i a circ-distance we never can give credit to. We even venture to pronounce it impossible; because such wicked ness could never enter at once into the minds and hearts of a Let of men, whose business it is to deliberate and al for the good of others. BUT sill this scourge did not fail to make itself fe!: throughout the extent of Bengal. Rice, which is com monty let at one fol a for three pounds, has gradual!) been raised ill i: came so high as to be sold at four soli per pound, and it has even been up to five or fix fols; neither indeed was there any to be found, except in full · paces wl:cre the Europeans lad taken care to collect it so tiilr own creations. TiH unhappy Indians nere every day perialingby thou rends under this want of sustenance, without any means of hcep a:;' , without any resource, not being able to pro c:c r:.tnn.i':vrc the least nourishment. They were to b len ;i: their-illaes, along the public ways, in the mid .f our European elcr.ics, pale, er.age, fainting, ema,* - :. ' - Ab.v:: S.J.,ciatcd
tiated, consumed by famine; some stretched on the B 0 oK ground in expectation of dying, others scarce able to drag ' themselves on to seek for any nutriment, and throwing themselves at the feet of the Europeans, intreating them to take them in as their slaves. To this description, which makes humanity thunder, let us add other objeas equally Shocking; let imagina tion enlarge upon them, if possible; let us represent to ourselves infants deferred, some expiring on the breast of their mothers; every where the dying and the dead min gled together; on all sides the groans of sorrow, and ti e tears despair; and we Ihall then have some faint idea of the horrible spectacle Bengal presented for the space of fix weeks. During this whole time the Ganges was covered with carcases; the fields and highways were choaked up with them; ingenious vapours filled the air, and diseases multi plied; and one evil succeeding another, it was near coming to pals, that the plague had carried off the remainder of the inhabitants of that unfortunate kingdom. It ap pears, by calculations pretty generally acknowledged, that the famine carried off a fourth part; that is to say, about three millions. BUT it is still more remarkable, and serves to characterise the gentleness, or rather the indolence, as well moral as natural of the natives, that amidst this terrible distress, such a multitude of human creatures, pressed by the not urgent of all necessities, remain ed in an absolute inactivity, and made no attempts whatever for their self-preservation. All the Europeans, especially the English, were possessed of magazines, and there very magazines were repeated; private houses were so too; no revolt, no massacre, not the least violence pre vail. The unhappy Indians, resigned to a quiet despair, confined themselves to the request of fticcor they did not rdtai;, and peaceably - acted the relief of deaths b c LFr
B o 0 K LET us now represent to ourselves any part of Europe afflicted by a similar calamity. What disorder ! what fury!,what atrocious acts! what mischiefs would ensue! how should we have seen among us Europeans, some contend. ing for their food with their dagger in hand, some pur suing, some si. ing, a.d, without remorse, cutting one another throats. How should we have seen men at lait turn their rage on themselves, ;erring and devouring their own limbs, and, in the blindness of despair, trampling under foot all authority, as wll as every sentiment of nature and reotfon. HAD it been the fate of the English to have had the like event; to dread on the part of the people of Bengal, per. laps the famine would ha-e been leis general and less destructive. For setting aide, as perhaps we ought, every charge of monopoly, no one will undertake to defend them against the reproach of negligence and insensibility. And in what crisis have they merited that reproach ? In the very infant of time when the life or death of several mil lions of their fellow-creatures was in their power. One would think tha:, in such an alternative, the very love of human kind, :ha; sentiment innate in all hearts, might have inspired them with resources. Might not the poor :reaches expiring before the eyes of the Europeans viii reason have cried our, " Is it then but for our ruin that " you are fertile in expedients for your own preservation? " The immense treafui es N which a long succession of ages "had accumulated in this country, you have made your " own spoils; you have transported them into your own " counts; you have raised your contributions on us; " you have got your agents to receive them for you; you're masters of our interior commerce ; you are the sole managers of all cur exported merchandize; your numerous vessels laden with the produce of our industry and o' our soil. pass and repass to the enriching of your theories and your colonies. All these things you regulate, " and you carry on for your own advantage. But what," have
have you done for our preservation ? What steps have B O o K you taken to remove from us the scourge that threatened - "us? Deprived of all authority, stripped of our property, , weighed down by the terrible hand of power, we can only lift our hands to you to implore your assistance. ' Ye have heard our groans; ye have seen famine making very quick advances upon us; and then ye attended to your own preservation. Yc have hoarded up the small quantity of provisions which escaped the pests. hence ; ye have filled your granaries with them, and distributed them among your soldiers. But we, the "f.:l dupes of your avarice, wretches in every re gard, as well by your tyranny as by 'your indifference, " v treat us like slaves, while you fi!pp,'e we have any ' riches; bu: when it appears we arc but a het of beings " fill of wants, then you no longer regard us even as 'human creature . Of what frviice is it to us that you "have the ma:lngemcnt of our p;'biic forces entirely in your hands ? Where are the laws and the morals of which ye are so proud ? What then is that government " lore wisdom you so much boast ,f? Have you put a "lop to the prodigious exports carried by your private traders ? Have ye changed the destination ofyour hips ? "Have they traversed the neighbouring seas in search of "the means subsistence for us ? Have ye requested it of "the adjacent countries ? Ah, why has Pro hence sus "served you to break tie chain which attached us to our "ancient sovereigns ? Less grasping, and more humane " than ye are, they would have invited plenty from all "parts of Asia ; they would have opened every communication they would have lavished their treasures, and "have thought they did but enrich themselves while they " preferred their subject." THIS last reflection, at least, was calculated to in:ke an ilmpreion on the English, fippofilig even tilt every liniment of humanity was extinguished in their hearts by the cffcts of depravity. The barrclh:;l; had been an-,B b 3 nouilliccd
B O O K bounced by a drought; and it is not to be doubted, that,,if instead of having solely a regard to themselves, and re making in an entire negligence of every thing elf, they had from the first taken every precaution in their power, they might have accomplished the preservation of many lives that were loft.,IT could no: happen otherwise, than that an administration so faulty in itself should defeat the means t, prosperity attached to the possession of those extensive countries. The company, pressed by real necessities, an! finding only insufficient resources in those treasures which served to dazzle their imagination, has already been obliged to tear aside the veil which concealed their filia. tion froth eyes of all the world. According to a cal citation, authenticated on the first of January 1773, the total amount of the company's postilions il Europe, whether in arrears hereafter to be received, or in rea! merchandise now in their storehouses, or even in imn:oee. able, comes to the sum of 175,1 6,ooo livres a: w.hereci their engagements amount to 207,430,oeo livres; so tala there is a deficiency of 32,274,000 livres C. It is true, rh:t the means of the company in India, that is to say, their specie in the chests of their different settlements, outstanding debts due to to them, the value of their wearer, their civil and military preparations, their elephants, step and their cargoes at ses, form a capital of 143,939,000 livres d. On the other hand, their debts are not less th: the sum of 45,726,000 livres c; so that upon the whole, of their affairs in India, there is a balance in their favor.; of 9S,213,ooo livres t From this must be deducted halt the company owes in Europe, that is to say, 32,274,00t lines ;, which reduces the sum of the general account tr 5.9;39.coo !i.-res h; and as the amount of their stocks-."3,7;!. - b 14,075,061 . s. ,4.T,9S]. Its. c t:7,331!' . 5 '. 2,cco,46:1. i -. 3 7iec651. 15. ; :.,7i,5,gl. l::. b S,8;84,31! :.,"2,00",·);
*z,ooo,ooo livres a; it follows, that on their capital, there B 0 0 K is a real loss of 6,061,ooo livres b. So that, in case all the effects of the company, as well in Europe as in India, could be converted into money, a supposition extremely in their favour, the proprietors would not find their original deposit. Doubtless it was not easy to suspect their situation to be such, when we find the tales of the company have progressively risen from 44,ooo,ooo livres ', the amount of that in 1762, to 8o,ooo,ooo livres d, according to the account of that of 1769. The trade of the com any has been carried to such a pitch, that the sales for these last ten years, to 1771 inclusive, have produced the net finn of 649,207,ooo livres c But it is essential to remark, that during the said period the company paid for different duties, to which their goods are subject, to the amount of 170,665,000 livres f, that is more than fie and twenty per cent. on the produce of the sales. And still this sum, so considerable as it is, is exclusive of an an null stipend of 9,0oo,ooo livres g; on which condition, government has given up to the company all territorial rights over Bengal. To make good engagements so extensive, and to dist: i- bute at the same time to the proprietors a dividend of 9,ooo,ooo livres h, at the rate of twelve and a half per cent. The revenues of India ought to have been managed with great wisdom and oeconomy: then they might have been sufficient, as well for the purchases the company makes in India, as for those made in China, and they might have waved sending any sums to their small factories. It was with this confidence that the proprietors of flock enjoyed quietly their dividend, and even expected it to be raised by the importation of money which had been announced to them. But so far was the event from answering their ' 3,r5,cool. b 26;5,161. i 5s. 1 ,925,oo0 1. i 3,o00,0oll . C 25.4/2,Sc61. 5s. f 7,456,;931. 15S.,1 b 4 large
B o O K large expectations, that the company's agents at Bengal,,II.,. Bombay,and Madrasss, have continually drawn upon them to make good the insufficiency of the revenues. The draughts drawn by them during the last five years, viz. from 1768 to 1772, both inclusive, amount to the sum of 49,25o,ooo livres 1. These draughts have made it unnecessary to send out coin to India; but during the same period they have been obliged to remit to China the sum of 20,ooo,oco livres b. And even this remittance not having been alf:r-er. able to the prodigious purchases made for the company at Canton, the factor there have been obliged to draw on them for 7,70o,oo0 livres c. The company, moreover, have ex. ported to India,wi hin the same time, as much as 6o, 14o0,00 livres d of merchants e; fs i tht, bringing tc gather all these sums, it appears, that during thlde five years, iIhich seemed likely to be the period of their greatest prosperity, the company, whether by exportations abroad, or by draughts paid in Europe, has employed in trade 137,590,000 livres e, which makes the sum of 2,,5 ;5,o0o livres cons mrunibas annie. However, notwithstanding this prodigious difference between the speculations and the real transactions if the revenues of Bengal had not been subject to unparalleled depredation, the company might have been enabled to fur-port with ease ail ti!.ir caprices, and till continue a dividend of-:.el c 2nd a half per cent. to !.e stockholders. The proof of this will appear in the ab straw of their commerce, cakula;ctd upon the receipts end disbursements of the ir.ft yeas, on the expel; ciciie o which it may be proper to ground our opinion of t!i actual state of things.,- :,T-. :7. Ces. b 8 ,cc. 34^,?-,.-,;,S.,I;1. c-i,59,6:1. lei. f ,: 3,73t.,RECEIPT.
BOOK R E C E I p T. I.,Livrts. produce of their sales, deducing discount, 78,750,00ooo a Produce of duties for the benefit of the corn o any laid on private trade - - - - 6 Value of 500 tons of saltpetre wanted an 7 annually for the army - - - 500,000 c,Total 79,81o,ooo 4 D I S B UR S E M Ens S.,Livres. Amount of duties - 20,250,000 e Freight and charges out - - - ,250,000 f Value of goods annually exported - - - 11,250,000ooo Amount of bullion exported to China, and) of the draughts the factory there draws , 4,500,o0 h annually on the company The impost of five per cent. on the rough produce of the annual tales, set at eighty 4,200,000 i four millions - - Bills of exchange taken from different par: S ,o of India - of India . w 8,080,000 k Annual stipend to be paid to government 1 on account of Bengal - - - f 9.- . .1 Annual dividend on the footing of twelve 7 and a half per cent. per annum - - 9'0°'°m Interest of bills beyond what the company 1,2o, receives of government f-12 000,Total 78,650,ooo0 3,445,3121. Tos. b :4,500o. ' r,8S7l. 3,447,9371. los. 5,937. I71 . . 492,1871. 10. 491,1871' Is. h 19gb,871 . i83,7501. k 353,5o01. 393,7501. n 393,75i 1. * 49,cool. P 3,440,9371. 01s.,IF,
0 0O K IF, from the amount of the receipt stated at 79,810o,o00 Its. livres a v.e drduA the latter fum of 78,65o,ooo livres , the,furDlus of the receipt will be i,16o,ooo livres C. THis 1-.:e, the Several articles of which having under gone the inspection of parliament cannot be called in ques non, selves ro f:l-v, that even supposing a wiser administration both at home and in lydia, the proprietors had no reason to expc:t any advantage beyond the dividend of twelve and a half per cent. v.hich had been fixed for them. BUT, if we ascend fr-'m t:- particular interest of the trading company to co:;ftc.r:t;;l of more extent, what resources, wha: adv.:nagc; duties no: the commerce of India procure to the ilaie r The amount of duties on the company's importation, the iin-.po of five per cent. on the rough produce cf their ills, the stipend exacted by government on account of Bengal, form a tribute of 5,450o,oco livres d paid annually to Great Britain out of the commerce and poffelons of Aria. And so long as the public treasure, supported by this new branch of revenue, turns it to the improvement of the power and prosperity of the kingdom, the annual mass of riches is hill increased by te ep:pcr:s of tee company's merchandise; by the charges of their navigation, by the benefit of the dividend at eight a::d a half above the common interest, by the draughts they pay, fcc these draught; are the representatives of the fortunes made by their agents in their fen ice. and which they retain Lome to enJoy. All thes objects brought to Peth-r constitute r:nerl; a total of 4n,ooo,ooo livres C, ex pended on the commerce of India to the advantage ofthe lard and mainfactlare of Engk!;.d: :aid yet this fin fc 4a.oco,ooo lit-rcs t, together with the :ther of 33,450,090 1 -:: :, r:-ei':cd by the govcrn!r.c:t, r-cluirt no more than : :4:;:- ~ ." T:. . . 3.i i:L :s. 9 5o,75l. ' -:, ] - --'-. ' l,,7c,c :i.L f ?,7',ct - i2 i ' - 7 iC ,an
an export of z, or 3,ooo,ooo in bullion a. Thus the pure B o o K of the state and the kingdom are equally enriched by the I. produce of a commerce, which by the good effet' of a most extraordinary management, threatens with ruin the very proprietors who farm it out to their agents. IT is easy to judge from the fketchjuft given, that for a long time they must sacrifice their dividends to clear away entirely that deficiency of 3z,000,000 livres b, which has taken place in their affairs in Europe. But what will be attended with still more difficulty will be, to revive in India the order and oeconomy necessary for discharging the debt of 45,0o0,00o livres contracted there on the company's account. WE must allow that the corruption to which the English have given themselves up from the first beginning of their power, the oppression which has succeeded it, the abuses every day multiplying, the entire loss of all prin ciple; all these circumstances together form a contrast totally disagreeing with their past conduct in India, and the real constitution of their government in Europe. list this fort of problem in morals will be easily i':lred, upon considering with attention the natura! sect of circumstances and events. BEING now become :absolute rulers in an claire where they were but traders, it was very difficult for t!e English not to make a bad ufc of their power. At a d:;?alce frown home, men are no longer restrained by the fear of be;:.g ashamed to see their countrymen. In a warm climate where the body moses its vigour, the mind ir.ntft lose some of its force. In a country where ligature and cUil!ln led to indulgence, men are apt to be seduced. In countries where they come for the purpoi: of grows. g rich, they casey forget to be upright. PERHAPS, however in a firtinaiin si taiinger', talc Eng- jill would have prcr.r;rci faite ap;)pie race of :i.;,:a::;i.: ? but :Ir."-^. :1.n a-:.'er *. b : 4?,,oool . c 5 1·6. S C ,
B O O K and virtue, had they been checked by the restraint of the,laws: but there were none to direct or to bind them. The regulations made by the company for the carrying on of their commerce, did not apply to this new state of things; and the English government considering the conquest of Bengal but as a help towards increasing numerically the revenue of Great Britain, gave up to the company for 9,oo0,0oo livres 3 per annum, the destiny of twelve millions of people. HAPPILY for this portion of our fellow-creatures, a re volution of a peaceable nature is at hand. The nation has been struck with such enormous excesses. She has heard the groans of such a number of victims sacrificed to the avarice and passions of tome individuals. The par lament is already employed on this great object. Every detail of that administration is under their inspection, every faa will be cleared up, every abuse unveiled, the reasons of them inquired into and removed. What a fight to be presented to Europe ! What an example to be left to posterity The hand of liberty is going to weigh the destiny of a whole people in the scale of justice. Yes, august legislators, ye will make good our expectations ! Ye will restore humanity to her rights, ye will put a curb on avarice, and break the yoke of tyranny. The authority of law, which is not to be taken, v ill every where take place of an administration purely arbitrary. At fight of that authority, the monopolist, that tyrant over indies try, will for ever disappear. The fetters which private in terest has rivetted on commerce ye will make to give way to general advantage. You will not confine yourselves :o this momentary re formation. You will carry your views into futurity; you w ill calculate the influence of climate, the danger of circum stances, the contagion of' example; and, to prevent their efefCs, you will feet performs without cornxions,,Ivi'hou'
without passions to visit there distant countries ; sub 0 0 I ing from the bosom of your metropolis, they are to pals II through these provinces in order to hear complaints, rec tiny abuses, redress injuries; in a word, to maintain and reunite the ties of order throughout the country. BY the execution of this salutary plan, you will, with out doubt, have done much towards the happiness of there people: but not enough for your own honour. One pre judice you have still to conquer, and that victory is worthy of yourselves. Venture to put your new fubjeas into a situation to enjoy the fwccts of property. Portion out to them tho fields on which they were born: they will learn to cultivate them for themselves. Attached to you by these favours, more than ever they were by fear, they will pay with joy the tribute you impose with moderation. They will instruct their children to adore, and admire your government; and successive generations will transmit down with their inheritance, the sentiments of their happiness mixed with that of their gratitude. THEN shall the friends of humanity applaud your success they will incline to hope they may once more see prosperity revive in a country embellished by nature, and no longer ravaged by despotism. It will be pleating to them to think that the calamities which afflicted those ser tile countries are for ever removed from them. They will pardon in you those usurpations, which have been only for the despoiling of tyrants, and they will invite you to new conquests, when they see the influence of your fu blame constitution of government extending itself even to the very extremities of Alia, to give birth to liberty, pro party and happiness.,a BOOK
B O O K IV. Voyages, Settlements, Wars and Trade of the Frenchman the East Indies. B o K 'HIE ancient Gauls, almclt always at war with each . . other, had no other intercourse together but such Anti-et - as were suitable to savage nations, whose wants are al com~~-rc° ways few. Their connections abroad were still more bird F="" subscribed. Some navigators from Vannes carried,earthen-ware to Great Britain, where they bartered it for dogs, slaves, pewter and furs. Such of there articles as te-y could not dispose of at home, were conveyed to Mar seules, and there exchanged for wines, stuffs and spice, which were brought thither by traders from Italy or Greece. This kind of traffic was not carried on by all the Gauls, It appears from Cefar's account that the inhabitants of E;!gja had prohibited the importation of all foreign com modifies, as tending to corrupt their morals. They thought their own soil sufficiently fruitful to answer all their wants. The Celtic and Aquitain Gauls were not so firs:. Their growing passion for foreign commodities, which they could be supplied with from the Mediterranean but which they could not afford to purchase, in diced them :o apply to a kind of labour which they had never thought of before: they picked up all the gold diet that was brought down kith the sand along the 'iran: of *:veral of their rivers. TUt O.H 'l: Roman had neither a turn forbade, nor head it in ann hand cii nation, it necessarily increased in,Gaul,
Gaul, after they had subdued, and in some measure civil O O,IV. sized it. Sea-ports were opened at Aries, Narbonne, Born . deux and other places. Magnificent roads were everywhere made, the ruins of which we still behold with astonish ment. Every navigable river had its company of mer chants, to whom considerable privileges were granted. These were called Rates, and were the agents and springs of a general circulation. THIS rising spirit was checked by the inroads of the Franks and other barbarous nations; nor was it restored to its former activity, even when these robbers had established themselves in their conquests. To their savage fury succeeded an unbounded passion for wealth, to gratify which, they had recourse to every kind of oppression. Every boat that came to a town was to pay so much for entrance, so much for the salute, so much for the bridge, so much for approaching the shore, so much for anchorage so much for leave to unload, and so much for the store-room. Land carriages were not more favourably treated, and were exposed to the insufferable tyranny of custom-house officers who were dispersed all over the country. These excesses were carried so far, that some times the goods brought to market did not fetch enough to pay the preliminary expences. A total discouragement was the necessary consequence of such enormities. CLOYSTERS soon became the only places where industry prevailed, and manufactures were carried on. The monks were not then corrupted by idleness, intrigue, and de debauchery. Useful labours filled up the vacancies of an edifying and retired life. The nioft humble and robust of them flared the toils of agriculture with their servants. Those to whom nature had imparted less strength or more understanding, applied themselves to the cultivation of the forlorn and abandoned arts. All of them in silence and retirement, were engaged in the ferric of their country, I
B O KC country, whose substance their successors have incessantly,. devoured and disturbed its tranquillity.,DACOBERT rouzed the spirit of his countrymen in the seventh century. Fairs were opened, to which the Saxons flocked with tin, and lead from England; the Jews with jewels, and gold or silver plate; the Sclavonians with all the metals of the north; traders from Lombardy, Pro. hence and Spain, with the commodities of their respect time countries, and those they received from Africa, Egypt and Syria; and merchants of every province in the king. dom, with whatever their soil and their industry afforded: Unfortunately this prosperity was of a short duration; it disappeared under indolent kings, but revived under Charlemagne.,THAT prince, who might without flattery be ranked with the greatest men recorded in history, had he not been sometimes influenced by sanguinary schemes of conquest, and sullied with ads of persecution and tyranny; seemed to follow the footsteps of those firs Romans, who made mu rat labours a relaxation from the fatigues of war. He applied himself to the care of his vast domains, with that closeness and fill which would hardly be expected from the most assiduous mati in a private station. All the great men of the state followed his example, and devoted them. selves to husbandry, and to those arts which attend, or are immediately connected-with it. From that period the French had plenty of their own productions to barter, and could with great ease make them circulate through out the immense empire, which was then subject to their dominion.,So flourishing a situation presented a fresh allurement to the Normans to indulge the inclination they had for piracy. Those barbarians, accustomed to seek from plunder that wealth which their soil did not asord, poured out of their inhospitable climate in quest of booty. They sell upon all the sea-coasts, but most eagerly upon thole,of
of France, which promised the richest harvest. The ra B O o K,- IV. wages they committed, the cruelties they exercised, the shares they kindled for a whole century in those fertile provinces, cannot be remembered without horror. Dur ing that fatal period, they were wholly taken up with the thoughts of escaping slavery or death. There was no com mutilation between the nations, and consequently nitrate. IN the the mean-time the nobles, intrusted with the administration of tie provinces, had insensibly made them selves masters of them, and had found means to make their authority hereditary. They had not, indeed, thrown off all dependence on the head of the empire, but retain ing the modest appellation of vassals, they were not much less formidable to the state than the king in the neigh boyhood of its frontiers. They were confirmed in their usurpations at the memorable era, when the scepter was removed from the family of Charlemagne to that of the Carpets. From that time there was no more national as fcmbly, no tribunals, no laws, no government. In that fatal confusion the sword usurped the place of justice, and the free citizens were forced to embrace servitude, to purchase the protection cf a chief who was able to defend them. Commerce could not polly thrive under the fetters of slavery, and in the midst of the continual disturbances occasioned by the must cruel anarchy. Industry is the child of peace; nothing depresses it tb much as servitude. Genius languishes when it is not animated by hope and emulation; and neither of these can subsist where there is no property. Nothing is a stronger recommendation of liberty, or mote fully proves the rights of mankind, than the impossibility of working successfully to enrich barbarous masters. SEVERAL of the kings of France entertained some suspicion of this important truth; they attempted to abridge the power of these petty tyrants, who, by ruining these unfortunate vassals, kept up the calamities of the mo anarchy. St. Lewis was the fist who introduced trade into V L. I. Cc the
B 0 0 K the system of government. Before his time it was only the,. work of chance and circumstances. He brought it under the regulation of stated laws, and he himself drew up statutes, which have served as a model for those that have since been eniaed. THESE si-rs steps led the way to measures of greater im. portance. The old law, which sorbad the exportation of all productions of the kingdom, was still in force, and agriculture was discouraged by this absurd prohibition. The wise monarch removed these fatal impediments; ex. petting, not without reason, that a free exportation would restore to the nation those treasures which his imprudent expedition had lavished.,SoME political events seconded these salutary views. Before the reign of St. Lewis, the kings had but few ports on the ocean, and none on the Mediterranean. The northern coasts were divided between the Counts of Flan. ders and theDukes of Burgundy,Normandy,andBretagne; the rest belonged to the English. The southern coasts were pcfiefIcd by the Counts of Toulouse, and the Kings of Majorca, Arragon, and Castile. By this repartition, the inland provinces had little or no communication with the foreign markets. The union of the county of Toulouse with the crown removed this great obstacle, at least for that part of the French territory. PHI LIP, the son of S. Lewis, desirous of improving this kind of conquest, endeavoured to draw to Nifmes, a city under his jurisdiction, part of the trade carried on at Mont palliser which belonged to the king of Arragon. The privileges he granted produced the desired effect; but it was soon found to be an object of little consequence. The Ita hans supplied the kingdom with spices, perfumes, silks, and all the rich.ftuffs of the East. The arts had not made such progress in France as to afford their own manufactures in exchange; and the produce of agriculture was not sufficient to defray so many articles of luxury. So dear a,als~~~~~~ consumption
consumption could only be supported by ready money, and B o0 K,IV. there was but little in the kingdom, especially since the Crusades, though France was not so poor as most of the other European nations. PHILIP, surnamed le Bel, was sensible of these truths; he found means to improve agriculture, so as to answer the demands of foreign importations, and these he reduced by establishing new manufactures, and improving the old ones. Under this reign the ministry firth undertook to guide the hand of the artist, and to dire his labours. The breadth, the quality, and the dressing of the cloths was fixed; the exportation of wool was prohibited; which the neighbouring nations came to purchase, in order to manufacture it. These were the best measures that could be taken in those times of ignorance. Since that period the arts advanced in their progress in proportion to the decay of feudal tyranny. The French, however, did not begin to form their taste till the time of their expeditions intoltaly. They were dazzled with a thou sand new object that prefentedthemfelves athena, Venice, and Florence. The strictness observed by Anne of Bretagne under the reigns of Charles VIII. and Lewis XII, at first restrained the conquerors from giving full scope to their propensity for imitation; but no sooner had Francis I called up the women to court, no sooner had Catharine of Medicis crossed the Alps, than the great offered an elegance unknown before, since the first foundation of the monarchy. The whole nation was led by this alluring ex ample of luxury, and the improvement of the manual. turns was the natural consequence. From Henry II. to Henry IV. the civil wars, the un happy divisions of religion, the. ignorance of government, the spirit of finance which began to have its influence in the council, the barbarous and devouring avarice of men in business encouraged by the protection they enjoyed; all theft several causes retarded the progress of industry, but,Cc 2 could
B 0o K could never destroy it. It revived with fresh fplendoar,under the frugal administration of Sully. it was almost ex. disguised under those of Richelieu and Mazarine, both governed by the farmers or the revenue; one wholly taken up with his ambition for empire and his spirit of revenge, the other with intrigue and plunder. r;-. anno king of France had e:-r seriously considered the ad F'rr h io vantages that might accrue from a trade to India, nor t-. East had the emulation of the French been ronued by the lufire,which other nation; derived from it. They consumed more eastern productions than any other nation; they were as favourably situated for fetching them from the first hand; and vet they s ere content to pay to foreign in dusty what their own might as weil have shared. Some merchants of Rouen had ventured, indeed, in 1;35, .pon a snail armament; but Glanville, who com handed the expedition, met with violent storms at the Cape of Good Hope, was cast upon unknown lands, and with much difficulty got back to Europe. Is cos a society formed in Bretagne fitted out two ship!, to endeavour to get a share, if possible, of the riches of the East, which the Portuguese, the English, and the Dutch, were contending for. Pyrard, who commanded these ships, arrived at the Valdivia islands, and did not return to his own country till after an unfortunate navigation of ten years. A rNEW company, headed by one Girard, a native of Slanders, fitted out tome ships from Normandy for the faint of Java, in 1616 and 1619. They returned with cargoes sufficient to defray the adventurers, but not enough to encourage them to any fresh undertakings. C.PT.A IN Region, upon the expiration of this fruitless grant in 1633, prevailed upon tome merchants of Dieppe two years after, to enter upon a track which might be productive of great riches, if properly pursued. Fortin baffled the endeavours of the new adventurers. The oni),z advantage
advantage gained by these repeated expeditions was the B O O K,IV. high opinion that was conceived of the island of Madagascar discovered by the portuguese in ixo6. This gave rise to a company in 1642, xihich was to make a considerable settlement on that island, to secure to their (hips the necessary hc!ps for failing further. UPON a ulrvey of the island, it was Sound to be situated Srttlrll.lt aloiig the calico coast of Arica; that it was three hun i-r'nur at died and thirty-fix leagues long, and one hundred and ts:i :twenty broad in the widest palt, and about eight hundred fqritio: f circumference. By whatever wind a ship is brought thatiLidn. there, nothing but di-cary and barren lf:n: s are ro be hccn; but at a greater diil':ace sola The l',!c 'hei ,il is famines lines bLack, fuonmetimies riedilh, monthly iiritft!, and every w-here watered by a great number of rivers. Veneration is heir very quick, and requires little labour; nature produces rice, potatoes, bananas, pine-apples, indigo, hemp, cotton, fisk, sugar, panl-trce;, cocoa-trees, orange trees, gum-trees, and woods fit for building, and for every art. The pastures are excellent, and are covered with oxen of the largest kind, and slice exactly resembling rhode of Barbary. THE inanity of Madagascar is divided into a great many provinces; each of them has a chief called Dean, which algiers to the word Lord. Ail the ensigns of his dignity are his laves and his flocks. His place is hereditary, but, in default of heirs, it devolves upon the oldest of his dele gates. His council is composed of some of such magistrates as he makes choice of, and the rest, which is the greatest number, reside in the villages to prefers peace, and administer justice. He can neither declare war without ihcir consent, nor support it without the voluntary contributions and aCtual assistance of his people. SUCH is the general form of government in the island; the province of Aloufi alone differs from it, having been poeflffcd by the Arabs for several centuries pall. Thoulgh,C c 3 lrc:
B 0 0 K few in number, they soon became the strongest, and d-,IV.,vided the country into twenty-two diltrias, each of which had a master of their own nation, to whom they gave the name of Boandrian, or descendant of Abraham. These petty sovereigns are continually at war with each other, but never fail to unite against the other princes of Madagascar who hold them in detestation, as being foreigners and usurpers. This is of all the island that part which is the most destitute of morals, activity, industry and bravery, because it is the only one where there is no liberty. SOME of the French fettled at Fort Dauphin in the country of Anofti, have lately in their excursions disco. vexed a new race of men, called Kimos, the tallest of whom are not above four feet high. They inhabit about forty villages in the interior parts, on the north-west side of the island. They are said to be more mischievous than their neighbours, and, what appears very extraordinary, not fq cowardly. They never stir out of their mountains, nor sussex any one to penetrate into them. THE other inhabitants of Madagascar are tall, nimble, and of a haughty countenance. They will mask a deep design, or a strong passion under a singling face, as art. fully as any knave in a civilized nation. They are ignorant of the origin of their laws, but observe them with great uniformity. The old men, who are intruded with the care of enforcing them, never take any see for the trial of a cri-minas, and think themselves sufficiently re warded if they can rid their country of a malefactor. In civil causes the parties bring them so many head of cattle, in proportion to the importance of the affair. THE offence that is moss frequently brought before these magistrates is theft. Though it is customary to bore the hand of the thief, these people have a universal propensity to robbers The inhabitants, ever afraid for their property, live in continual mistrust of each other. For their mutual security they feal their engagements with the most solemn,oaths,
.paths. They are so accustomed to these formalities, that 0 o K,1v. they praise them even when they treat with Europeans. On these important occasions, he who represents the na tion puts into a vessel filled with brandy, gold, silver, gun-flint, if possible some of the dust of the tomb of his ancestors, and frequently blood, which, after the manner of the ancient Scythians, the parties draw out of their own arms by incision. During there preparatives, their weapons are laid on the ground in the form ossa cross. Soon after, both parties pick them up, and hold them with the point in the cup, constantly stirring the contents till the agreement is made. Then the contracting parties, the witnesses, and the operators, all drink out of the cup till it is empty, after which they embrace and withdraw. RELIGIous principles are no check upon the people of Madagascar. Though in general they admit the prevail ing doctrine of the two principles, they have but a con fused notion of it, nor have they any worship whatever. Notwithstanding this indifference, they are-addicted to every kind of superstition. In their uncouth notions of astrology they see nothing, nor imagine any thing, but what they connect with futurity. THE most dangerous of all their prejudices is, doubtless, the distinction between lucky and unlucky days. They inhumanely put to death all children born under the un lucky day. This destructive principle is one cause among many others which prevents the population of this country. THOSE who do not fall victims to this cruel superstition are circumcised at the age of two years, or twenty-four moons, as they express it. The ceremony is performed with all possible solemnity. While the operation is per forming, one of the child's parents holds a cup under the sacred knife; and the most distinguished of the uncles swallows the part of the prepuce that has been cut off. The rest of the family, and the by-sanders, dip a finger into the blood, and taste it. These singular mysterics,Cc j are
BO O K are concluded with festivity, dancing, aid pleasures of all kinds. TRE people of Madagascar never receive any kind of education, and marry as soon as they attain to the sate of manhood. A man of the lower fort, even a stase, takes as many wives as he pleases, or as many as he can find. The better fort have but one lawful wise, but, in order to vary their pleasures, they keep concubines. They allput away their wives whenever they dislike them, and beth par. tics are at full liberty to marry again, or to remain tingle the people of Madagascar led an idle and dissolute life, and seldom arrive at o't age. An unwholesome climate bad food, constant debauchery, the want of proper assistance, together with other caul:. s, concur to hasten their end. When a man dies, the whole neighbourhood is apprized of it by lmentslttiu;'s, expressed in an incef'ilsn mournful tinging. The relations meet, and partake of the most profuse entertainment:, whilst the thos affectionate of the slaves-keeps asking the deceased, " W'hat,could induce him to cit c-11 that was dear to binan." After eight days the corpse is buried with his choices. jewels; nor is he then forgotten. The respect for an castors is incredible.: in those icb:!arous legions. It is no uncommon thing to sae men of all ages go and weep over :he tombs of their fathers, and ash their advice in the most important occurrences of life. THE common food of the inhabitants of Madagascar is rice, ewhi:h multiplies a hundred sod, il spite of the iwo*l of culture. Their drink is a lind of mead, and wine made withfugar and bal.lna. Their g:-cateft incrv is a pier c c clo c-.-cr tilcir :shoulders, and another round their waits. Maid C. A ad been ted b y the Portuguese, the Dutch, and the Engll:;, ,Sho had despised it, fielding none of those objects which b-r;;.t ther. to the East. The French, who versed to bite no determinate obieft in V-wv, :per th-.t capital they ;ad reserved for the ptlrpefc,,f
of trade, in subduing the island. They found some gold B O O K,IV. scattered in one corner of the island, and directly concluded . titre mist e gold mines, never pilfering that it might have been brought thither by the Arabs. They were pn- nailed for their greediness by the loss of their whole stock, At the expiration of their grant they had nothing left but a few tenements, situated in five or fix different parts of tile coast built of boards covered with leaves, surrounded smith stakes, and decorated with the pompous name of forts, because they mounted a few bad pieces of cannon, Their defenders were reduced to about a hundred robbers, ;ho, by their cruelties, daily increased the hatred con civet against their nation. The whole of their conquests amounted to a few fill districts, forsaken by the natives, and sone few larger cantons, from hence they forcibly extorted a tribute of pros iiions. MARSHAL de la Meilleraie seized upon these ruins, and conceived the project of restoring this ill-contented under taking for his own private emolument. Hi.- success-as so indifferent, that his nrpirty sold but for 20,o30 livres, which was full as much as it was v.orh. AT last, in 1664, Colbert presented to Jervis XIV. a plan for an East India Company. Agriculture was then so flourishing in France, and industry so brisk, that this branches commerce seemed to be needless. The minister sas of a different opinion; he foriclaw that the other European nations would follow his ce:;.ap!c, and fct lp manufactures of their own, and would have their Eal!e:ln connections besides. This was cornet-ed as a very deep thought, and an East lid'a Ccr:il;npy :was accordingly created, vested xs with all the privilege enjoyed by tie Dl)ch East India Company. They even event ilruher. C't.b ct, considering that in order to carry on great commercial un undertakings there must always be a certain confidence in Re publics, which cannot ae expected in Monarchical, had re course to every expedient that couui prone ii.,THS
B 0 O K THE charter was granted for fifty years, that the corn,Iv. *" any might be encouraged to form great settlements, wither prospect of reaping the fruits of them. ALL foreigners advancing 20,000 livres a, were to be deemed Frenchmen, without being naturalized. Os the like terms, officers, whatever corps theybe. longed to, were excused from residence, without forfeit. ing the rights of their post, or their pay. Whatever was wanted for the building, arming orvic. talking of the sips, was to be entered duty free, and be excused all duties to the admiralty. THE government engaged to pay fifty livres b per ton for all goods exported from France to India, and fe vent-five livres c for every ton imported from thence. THE government entered into engagements to convoy their outward and homeward bound flips, with as strong a squadron as exigencies should require. THE reigning passion of the nation was made subser. vient to this establishment. Special honours and hereditary titles were promised to such as should distinguish them selves in the service of the company's trade was yet in its infancy in France, and was un. able to furnish the fifteen millions d that were to constitute the stock of the new society, the ministry engaged to lend as fares three millions e. The nobles, the ma nitrates, all orders of men were invited to share the rest. The nation, proud to please their king, who had not yet crushed them with the weight of his false greatness, came into the proposal with great eagerness the persisting in the resolution of forming a settlement at Madagascar deprived the company of the benefit of the first voyage. They were at length obliged to relinquish that island, whose savage and unconquerable inha.,-875 L "L 3s. 9d. 3 1. 55. 7d, O. v 656,2zco . 135,2501.,bitants
giants could not be reconciled either to the commodities, B 00 0 the worship, or the manners of Europe. AT that period it was, that the company's (hips began to fail directly to India. Cy the intrigues of Miarcara, a native oflfpahan, but in the French fen-ice, they obtained leave to establish stories on several places on the coast of the peninsula. They even attempted to secure a share of the Japan trade. Colbert offered to send none but pro tenants, but by the artifices of the Dutch, the French were denied an entrance into that empire, as the English had been before. SURAT had been pitched upon for the center of all the TheFPrenC business which the company was to carry on in those parts. mae Surat It was from that capital of Guzarat that all orders were of heir trade. Ac to be issued out for the subaltern settlements. There all coauntfthih goods destined for Europe were to be brought. famscs city and of the GUZARAT forms a peninsula between the Indus and province of Malabar. It is about one hundred and sixty miles in G iunarat, which it i' length, and much the same in breadth. It is separated vitiated from the kingdom of Agra by the mountains of Maria. It rains there incessantly from June to September; at all other times, farce a cloud is to be seen. The burning heat of the fun, however, is happily tempered by refresh ing dews, which cool the air and moisten the ground. The richness of a soil abounding in corn, rice, sugar, cot ton, cattle, game, fruits of all kinds in an uninterrupted succession, added to variety of important manufactures, was sufficient for the happiness of the inhabitants; when, in the beginning of the eighth century, strangers came and introduced new branches ofindufiry among them. Some Persians, who were persecuted for their opinions by the Saracens their conquerors, took refuge in the isle f Ormus, whence they failed some time after for India, and landed at Diu. In this asylum they continued but nineteen'years, and then embarked again. They were driven by the winds inn a pleasant llcr. between Da-man
B O O K man and Bacaim. The prince who governed that conn-,V try, confined to admit them amongst his subjects, on,condition that they should reveal the mysteries of their bliief, that they should lay down their arms, that they should speak the Indian language, that their wonmL foul: go abroad un-veiled, and that they Should celebrate their nuptials at the close of the evening, according to the custom of the country. As these stipulations con gained nothing repugnant to their religious notions, the people who fled there for protection agreed to them. A piece of ground was allotted them, where they built a town, whence they soon spread farther up the country. A HAPPY necessity had made them contrary a habit of labour, so that both the lands and the manufactures prospered in their hands. They were so wise as not to inter here .with goi errant or war, and enjoyed profound tranquillity in the midst of all the revolutions that happened from time to time. In consequence of this Circumspection and of the affluence in which they lived, they multiplied-very fast. They always remained a separate people, distinguished hy til name of Paris, never intermarrying r.ith the Indians, and adhering to the principles which had occasioned their banishment. Their tenets were those of Zoroaster, fnfmc:hat altered by time, ignorance, and the rapacor.nef ;s of the plies. THE prosperity of Guzarat, partly owing to the ex sled Persians. excited the ambition of two formidable powers. Vhi'ft the Portuguese annoyed it by the see side by the ravages they committed, by the victories they gained, ard by the conqucll of Diu jufllv esteemed the builar-k of the kingdom; the Moguls, already masters of the rnrth' of India, and eager to advance towards the fou'.:ern parts where trade and riches were to be' found, threatened it from the continent.,B:Dn R, a Satan by birth, who then reigned over Gu marat, fs;w how impossible it would be for him at once to,sw highland
withstand two filch enemies, both bent upon his deftruc- B O O K tion. He thought he had less to fear from a people whose forces were parted from their dominions by immense seas, than from a nation firmly fettled on the frontiers of his provinces. This consideration made him determine to be friends with the Portuguese. The concessions he made them even induced them to join with him against Akebar, whose activity and courage they dreaded little less than herself. THIS alliance disconcerted men who thought they had only Indians to deal with. They could not think of en gaging with Europeans, who were reputed invincible. The natives, not yet recovered from the consternation into which these conquerors had thrown them, represented them to the Mogul soldiers as men come down from heaven or risen from the waters, of a species infinitely superior to the Asiatics, and far surpassing them in valour, genius and knowledge. The army seized with a panic, was urging the generals to march back to Delhi, when Akebar, convinced that a prince who undertakes a great conquest mull command his own troops, hastened to his camp. He did not hesitate to promise his troops that they should beat a people enervated by luxury, riches, plea sures, and the heat of the climate; and that the glory of purging Asia of that handful of banditti was reserved for them. The army, in fresh spirits, applauded the emperor and marched on with confidence. They soon came to an engagement; the Portuguese, ill seconded by their allies, were surrounded and cut to pieces. Badur fled, and disappeared for ever. All the cities of Guzarat hastened to open their gates to the conqueror. This fine kingdom in 1565, became a province of that vast empire which was soon to invade all Hindostan. UNDER the Mogul government, which was then in its full glory, Guzarat enjoyed more tranquillity than before. The manufactures were multiplied at Cambaya, Ama-,dabat,
-B o 0 K dabat, Broitfchia, and several other places. New ones .t ' - - - were set up in those towns which were yet unacquainted with this industry. The culture of lands was improved, and their productions increased. That part of Malabar which borders upon Guzarat, long since tired of the im positions of the Portuguese, brought their linen cloths thither. The goods manufactured on the banks of the Indus were likewise sent to this country, as they could not conveniently be conveyed down the river, as the Stream is too rapid above to land them, and below, the waters discharge into the lea by so many streams, that they are in a manner lost in the sands. ALL these riches centered at Surat, which stands on \X~ the river Tanta, a few miles from the ocean. This city,was indebted for this advantage to a fort, which protected the merchants, and to its harbour, the best on that coast, though not an excellent one. The Moguls, who had then no other maritime town, drew all their articles of luxury from thence, and the Europeans who had not yet any of the great settlements they have since made at Bengal and on the coast of Coromandel, bought most of their Indian commodities at that place. They were all collected there, as the people of Surat had taken care to procure a navy superior to that of their neighbours. The ships, which lasted for ages, were for the molt part of a thousand or twelve hundred tons burthen. They were built of a very strong wood called Teak. Far front launching them with a costly apparatus and complicated en gives, they let in the tide into the dock, and it set them afloat. The cordage was made of the bark of the cocoa tree; they were rougher and less pliable honours, butt least as solid. Their cotton fails were neither so strong nor so lasting as our hempen ones, but more pliable and less apt to split. Inroad of pitch, they made use of the gum of a tree called Tamar, which is, perhaps, better. The fill cf their officers, though but moderate, was sufficient foi,thosc
those seas and those seasons in which they failed. As to B 0 0 g their sailors, called Lascars, the Europeans have found 1,. them good ones for their voyages from one part of India to another. They have even been employed successfully in bringing home into our stormy latitudes such Ships as had lost their crew. So many united advantages had brought to Surat a great concourse of Moguls, Indians, Persians, Arabs, Ar menials, Jews and Europeans. We hardly suffered that there was such a thing as commercial principles, and they were already known and practiced in this part of Asia. The value of money was very low, and it was easily obtained; and bills of exchange might be had for every market in In dia. Insurances for the most distant navigations were much in vogue. Such was the honesty of these traders, that bags of money ticketed and sealed by the bankers would circulate for years, without ever being counted or weighed. Fortuned were proportionable to the ease with which they were to be acquired by industry. Those of five or fix millions a were not uncommon, and some were even more considerable. THESE fortunes were mostly possessed by the Banians, a set of traders who were noted for their honesty. A few moments were enough for them to transact the most im portant business. In the most intricate discussions, they preserved an evenness of temper and a politeness which can hardly be conceived. THEIR children, who assisted at all bargains, were early trained up to this gentleness of manners. Scarce had they a dawning of reason, but they were initiated into all the mysteries of trade. It was a common thing to see a child of ten or twelve years old, able to supply his father's place. What a contrast, what a distance between this and the education of our children; and yet, what a difference between the attainments of the Indians, and the progress of our knowledge !,* About 240,00 1. on an average.,$tct
B0 0 K SUCH of the Banians as had Abyssinian saves, and very,few of these good-natured men bad any, treated the iln with such humanity as must appear very singular to us. The brought them up as if they had been of their own family, trained them to business, advanced them money to enable them to trade for themselves, and not only differed them to enjoy the profits, but even allowed them to dispos of them in favour of their descendants if they had any.,TuE expences of the Banians were not proportioned to their fortunes. As they were restrained by the principles of their religion from eating meat or drinking fireor. liquors, they lived upon fruits, and a few plain dishes. They never departed from ths frugality but upon the settlement of their children. On this single occasion, no cost was spared for the entertainment, or for the music, dancing and fireworks. Their .whole ambition was to tell how much the wedding had cost. Sometimes it amounted to a hundred thousand crowns '. THEIR very women had a table for this simplicity of manners. All their glory consisted in pleating their husbands Perhaps, the great veneration in which they hdd the nuptial sie arose from the cui'lom of engaging them in their earliest infancy. That fentir.ents.ias in thciroi)i- non the most sacred part of religion. Never did they ai low themselves the l;alt conversation with strangers. Left reserve would not have fats-fid their husbands, who could not hear, without aioniihlnnt, of the familiarity that prevailed between the two fIxes in Europe. WheVhc they were told that this freedom was attended with n, ill con sequence, they were not convinced, but fliuok their hearts, and answered by one of their proverbs, which signifies, That if Jsu brig butter too n-ar th: fire, oi caen lsiaals kee itfrsm melting. Excepting the Moguls, who were in possession of all places under the govrnr.ient, who were very extravagant it their stables, their baths and their seraglios, and ran,*13,t1251.,inte
into every kind of indulgence to drown the sense of the B 0 IC,IV. despotism under which they lived, all the merchants of boot curate conformed to the frugality of the Banians, as far as the difference of religion would admit. Their greater expence was the decorating of their houses. THESE were contrived in the best manner to guard against the heat of the climate. The outside walls were covered with beautiful wainscoting, and the inside ones inlaid with porcelain. The panes of their windows were of-shell or mother of pearl, which tempered the glare of the fun without too much obtruding the light. The apartments were prettily disposed and furnished, suitably to the customs of the country; and in one of the rooms was a fountain of water, spouting up from a marble bason, whose gentle murmurs invited the company to soft slumbers. DURING their repose, the common indulgence of the inhabitants of Surat was to stretch themselves upon a sopha, where they were rubbed by men of singular dexterity or rather kneaded like dough. The necessity of promoting the circulation of the fluids, too often re warded by the heat of the climate, first suggested the notion of this operation, which affords them an in finite variety of delightful sensations. They fall into such a tender state of languor, that they sometimes aloft faint away. This custom was said to be brought to the Indies from China; and some epigrams of Martial and declamations of Seneca, seem to hint that it was not unknown to the Romans at the time when they refined upon every pleasure, as the tyrants who enslaved those mailers of the world afterwards refined upon every torture. THEY had another species of pleasure at Surat, which, perhaps, our effeminacy would have envied them fill more, and this was their female dancers, whom the Europeans call Balliadere;, a name given them by the Portuguese. Numbers of these are collected together in seminaries of pleasure. The better fort of there societies are devoted Vo. I. D d to
B O O K to the richest and mols frequented Pagodas. Their deffi.,v , nation is to dance in the temples on their great festivals and to be subservient to the pleasures of the Bramins, There priests, who have not taken the artful and de. restful vow of renouncing all, that they may the more freely partake of every enjoyment, chuse rather to have women of their own, than at once to defile celibacy and wedlock. They do not invade another man's right by adultery, but are jealous of the dancers, whose worship and vows they share with the gods; but they never sussex them without reluctance to contribute to the amusement of kings and great men. THE rise of this singular institution is not known. Pro. baby, one Brain who had a concubine or a wise, affoci. acted with another Brain, who had likewise his concubine or his wise; and in process of time, the mixture of so many Brahmins and women occasioned such confusion, that the omen came to be common to all those priests. Let but a number of single persons of both sexes be collected into one oyster, and a commonalty of men and women will soon take placet his freedom, we may suppose, put an end to jealousy. The women were not uneasy at the increase of their num boers, nor the Bramins at that of their order. It was ra ther a new conquest than a rival flip. We may likewise suppose, that in order to palliate this licentiousness in the eyes of the people, all those women were consecrated to the service of the altars. It is no less pro able that the people readily consented to this kind of fu perfection, as it insured the safety of their wives and daughters by confining the lawless desires of the monks to one particular spot. THE contrivance of stamping a sacred character upon there courtesan, might make parents the more willing to part with their beautiful daughters, and to content that they should follow their casing, and devote themselves tother fmuiinric., from-thence the superannuated women might,return
return to society without disgrace: for there is no crime B 0 0 I,1V. that may not be sanctified by the intervention of the gods. a . The most sacred truths may be perverted by wicked men to the worst of purposes. The very notion of a Supreme Being may, in the hands of a crafty pries, be made sub.' verse of all morality. He will affirm, not that filch a thing is pleasing to the gods, because it is good; but that such a thing is good, because it is pleasing to the gods. THE Bramins wanted only to gain another point in or der to complete this institution, which was to persuade the people that it was decent, holy, and pleasing to the gods, to marry a balladiere, in preference to all other women, and thereby induce them to solicit the relics of their debaucheries as a special favour. IN every city there are other companies, not so choice as the former, for the amusement of the rich. The Moors and Gentiles may equally procure a fight of there dancers at their country houses, or in their public assemblies. There are even strolling companies of them, conducted by old women who having been themselves trained up in there seminaries, are promoted in time to the direction of them. THESE handsome girls have the shocking custom of be ing always followed by an old deformed musician, perhaps, as a soil, whose employment is to beat time with an instrument of brass, which we have lately borrowed of the Turks, to add to our military music, and which in the Indies is called a tam. The man who holds it, is conti annually repeating that word with such vehemence, that by degrees he works himself up into dreadful convulsions, whilst the balladieres, intoxicated with the desire of plea sing, and the sweets with which they are perfumed, at length lose their senses. THEIR dances are, in general, love pantomimes: the plan, the design, the attitudes, the time, the airs, the cadence, all is expressive of this passion, with all its raptures and extravagancies.,P d a EVEev
B o O K EVERY thing conspires to the amazing success of therein voluptuous women: the art and richness of their attire,,as well as their ingenuity in setting off their beauty. Their long black hair falling over their Shoulders, or braided and turned up, is loaded with diamonds and stuck with flowers. Their necklaces and bracelets are enriched with precious stones. Even their nose jewels, that ornament which shocks us at first fight, is wonderfully pleasing; it sets off all the other ornaments by the charms of symmetry and has an effect which cannot be explained, but is felt in time. Nothing can equal the care they take to preserve their breasts as one of the most striking marks of their beauty. To prevent them from growing large or ill shaped, they inclose them in two cases made of an exceeding light wood, which are joined together, and buckled behind. These cases are so smooth and so supple, that they give way to the various attitudes of the body, without being flattened, and without injuring the delicacy of the skin. The outside of these cases is covered with a leaf of gold, studded with diamonds. This is certainly the most refined kind of ornament, and the heft calculated to preserve beauty. They take it off, and put it on again with fin gular facility. This covering does not prevent one from seeing the palpitations, sighing and tender emotions of the breast: it conceals nothing that can contribute to excite dcfire.,MosT of these dancers imagine it an addition to the beauty of their complexion, and the impression of their looks, to trace a black circle round their eyes with a hair bodkin, dipped in the powder of antimony. This borrowed beauty, celebrated by all the eastern poets, ap feared very odd at first to the Europeans, but custom has reconciled them to it. THis art of pleasing is the Alone life, the whole cm pl.ynment, the whole felicity of the balladieres. It is hard to,rcelit
resist their seducing manners. They even obtain a prese B 0 0 K,1V. hence over those beauties of Cashmere, which fill the seraglios of Hindostan, as the fair Georgians and Circassians fill those of Ifpahan and Constantinople. The mo testy, or rather the reserve of proud slaves, sequestered from the society of amen, cannot balance the arts of these expert courtesan. THEY were no where so much in repute as at Surat, the richest and most populous city in India. It began to decline in 1664. It was sacked by the famous Sevagi, who carried off twenty-five or thirty millions a. The plunder would have been infinitely greater, had not the EngliSh and Dutch escaped the public disaster, by the care they had taken to fortify their factories, and had not the most valuable effects been lodged in the castle, which was out of the reach of attack. This loss made the inhabitants more cautious. They surrounded the city with walls, to prevent the like disaster. The mischief was re paired, when the English, in 1686, were so unwarrantably and shamefully greedy, as to flop all the ships that were sending out from Surat to the several seas. This piracy, which lasted three years, deprived this famous mart of almost every branch of trade that was not its own peculiar property. The town was nearly reduced to its own natural riches. OTHER pirates have since infested those latitudes, and from time to time disturbed the operations of Surat. Their very caravans, that carried their merchandises to Agra, to Delhi, and all over the empire, were not respected by the fubjeas of the independent rajas, which they met with on the several roads. They had formerly had recourse to a strange contrivance for the security of their caravans, which was, to put them under the profession of a woman or a child of a sacred race, held such by the nations they dreaded. When those banditti approached tota About l,2oo,ooo. on averaged d plunder
0o7 K plunder the caravan, the guardian threatened to make,, away with herself if they persisted in their resolution; and actually did so if they did not yield to her remonstrances. Those profligate men, who had not been restrained out of respect for sacred blood, were excommunicated, degraded, and car out of their tribe. The dread of there revere pu nifunents was sometimes a check upon avarice; but since all has been in combustion in Hindostan, no consideration can allay the thirst of gold. NOTWITHSTANDING all there misfortunes, Surat is still a great trading city. The produce of the numberless ma nufaaures all over Guzarat is deposited in her warehouses. A great part is carried into the inland countries; the rest is conveyed to all parts of the globe by an uninterrupted navigation. The most common goods are duties, a kind of coarse unbleached cloth, worn in Persia, Arabia, Abyssinia, and the eastern coast of Africa, and blue linens, which are disposed of in the same manner; and are like wise sold to the English and Dutch for their Guinea trade the blue and white checks of Cambaya, which are worn for mantles in Arabia and Turky: some are coarse and some fine, and some even mixed with gold for the wear of the rich. THu white linens of Broitfchia, so well known by the name of Barras. As they are extremely fine, they make summer caftans for the Turks and Persians. The fort of muslin, with a gold stripe at each end, with which they m-ake their turbans, is manufactured at the same place. THE printed linens of Amadabat; whose colours are as bright, as fine and as durable as those of Coromandel. They are worn in Persia, in Turky, and in Europe. The rich people of Java, Sumatra and the Molucca islands make pages and coverts of these chintz. THE gauzes of Bairapour; the blue ones are worn by the common people in Persia and Turky for their summer cloathing, and the red ones by the better fort. The Jews,,who
who are not allowed by the Porte to wear white, make their B 0 0 K,IV. turbans with there gauzes. 1. MIXED stuffs of silk and cotton, plain, striped, some with sattin stripes, some mixed with gold and silver. If they were not so dear, we should like them even in Europe for the brightness of their colours, and the fine execution of the flowers, though their patterns are so indifferent. They soon wear out; but this is of no consequence in the sera alios of Turky and Persia, where the consumption of them is made. Some are all silk, called tapis. These are pages of several colours, much esteemed in the eastern parts of India. Many more would be wove, were they not under a necessity of using foreign materials, which enhances the price too much. Shawls, very light, warm and fine cloths, made of the wool of Cassimere. They are died of different co lours, striped and flowered. They are worn for a winter dress in Turky, PeriGa, and the more temperate parts of In dia. With this precious wool they weave turbans, that are ell wide, and a little more than three ells long, which sell from 2400 to 3600 livres a. Though it is Sometimes ma nufaaured at Surat, the finest works of this kind are made at Cassimere. BESIDES the prodigious quantity of cotton made use of in the manufactures of Surat, seven or eight thousand bales at least are annually sent to Bengal. Much more is sent to China, Persia and Arabia when the crops are very plentiful If they are moderate, the overplus is carried down the Ganges, where it always fetches a better price. THOUGH Surat receives in exchange for her exports, porcelain from China, silk from Bengal and Persia; masts and pepper from Malabar; gums, dates, dried fruits, copper and pearls from Persia ; perfumes and slaves from Arabia; great quantities of spices from the Dutch; iron about 130 1. on an averaged d 4 lead,
o o; K lead, cloth, cochineal, and some hard wares from the,Englih ; the balance is so much in her favour, as to bring in yearly twenty-five or twenty-fix millions of livres a in ready money. The profit would be much greater, if the source of the riches of the court of Delhi was not turned away. HowEvER, this balance could never again rise to what it was when the French fettled at Surat in sci. Their leader was one Baron. He was a merchant of French extraction, who was grown old in the service of the Dutch company. Hamilton says, that this able man, who had in gratified himself with the emperor of Japan, had obtained leave to build a house for his mailers, on the island where the factory stood which was under his direction. This building proved to be a castle. The natives, who knew nothing of fortification, did not entertain any suspicion of i', They surprized some pieces of cannon that were sending from Batavia, and informed the court of what was going forward. Baron was ordered to repair to Jeddo, to give an account of his conduct. As he had nothing reasonable to alledge in his vindication, he was treated with great severity and contempt. They plucked off his beard by the roots, put him on a fool's cap and coat, and in this trim exposed him to the insults of the populace, and he was banished from the empire. The reception he met with at Java gave him a disgust against the interests he had espoused; and actuated by revenge he went over to the French, and became their agent. Artrt of SURAT, where they had fixed him, did not answer his the Frenuh,= rh3Tib notion of a chief settlement. He disliked the situation; itad3s of he lamented his being obliged to purchase his safety by S:.Thos., submissions; he foresaw it would be a disadvantage to The'ft!'- carry on trade in competition with richer nations, who P.r.d:,her- knew more, and were held in greater esteem than them-,r fever. He wished to find an independent port in the center of India, or in some of the spice islands, without,On a ane:ae abbot ,l 16,eCC 1.,which
which he thought it impossible for any company to sup B 0 K port itself. The Bay of Trinquimale in the island of lv Ceylon, appeared to him'to unite all these advantages, and he accordingly failed for that place with a powerful squadron, which had been sent him from Europe under the command of La Have, and which was to an under his direction. They believed, or feigned to believe, that they might fettle there without encroaching upon the rights of the Dutch, whose property had never been acknowledged by the sovereign of the island, with whom they had entered into a treaty. ALL that they alledged might indeed be true, but the event did not answer their expedition. They divulged a project which they ought to have kept a profound secret; they ex executed slowly an expedition which ought to have been effect ed at once; they were intimidated by a fleet which was not in a condition tonight, and which could not, possibly, have received orders to hazard an engagement. The greater part of the ships crews and land forces, perished with want and sickness; some men were left in a small fort they had Rreted, where they were soon compelled to surrender. With the remainder they went to seek for provisions on the coast of Coromandel, but finding none either at the Danish settlement of Tranquebar or any where else, in a fit of despair they went and attacked St. Thomas, where they were informed there was great plenty. THIS town, which had long been a flourishing one, was built by the Portuguese above a hundred years before. The king of Golconda having conquered the Carnatic, could not sussex so important a place to remain in foreign hands; he sent his generals to attack it in ice, and they made themselves matters of it. The fortifications, though considerable and in good repair, did not stop the progress of the French, who took them by storm in 1672. They were soon invested, and were forced to surrender two,years
B O K years after; because the Dutch, who were at war with, Lewis XIV. joined with the Indians to expel them this last event would have entirely ruined the enter. prize, after all the expence the government had been at to support the company, had not Martin been one of the merchants sent on board La Have's squadron. He collected the remains of the two colonies of Ceylon and St. Thomas, and with them he peopled the little town of Pondicherry, which had been lately ceded to him, and which was riling to a city, when the company conceived the fairest hopes of a new settlement which they had now an opportunity of making in India. SOME priests belonging to the foreign missions had of the preached the gospel at Siam. They had gained the love French at cram. herr of the people by their doctrine and by their behaviour. doss o Plain, good-natured, and humane men, without intrigue Tonqu.n o.dCo-i. or avarice, they gave no jealousy to the government nor,i to the people; they had inspired them with respect and,love for the French in general, and in particular for Lewis XIV.,A GREEK, of a restless and ambitious spirit, named Constantine Falcon, in his travels to Siam, had been seen by the prince, who was so much pleased with him, that in a sort time he raised him to the post of prime minister, or barcalcn, an office which nearly answers to our ancient nr:i.es of the palace. FArLKOSo governed both the people and the kingwith despotic sway. The prince was a weak valetudinarian, and had no issue. His minister conceived a project tc succeed him; possibly to dethrone him. It is well knowvr that these attempts are as easy and as frequent in de. fpotic governments, as they are difficult and uncommon it countries where the prince governs by the rules justice where the principles and measure of his authority ar founded on fundamental and immutable laws, which ar under the guardianship of numerous bodies of able magil,3 tratet
traces. There the enemies of the sovereign shew that they B o 0 K,Iv. are enemies of the fate; there they find themselves soon flopped in their process by all the forces of the nation; be cause, by ring up against the head, they rise up against the laws, which are the standing and immutable will of the nation. Falcon contrived to make the French subservient to his scheme, as some ambitious men had formerly made use of a guard of fix hundred Japanese, who had more than once disposed of the crown of Siam. He Cent ambassadors into France in 1684 to make a tender of his master's alliance, and to offer sea ports to the French merchants, and to ask for ships and troops. THE ostentatious vanity of Lewis XIV. took advantage of this embassy. The flatterers of that prince, who was too much extolled, though he deferred commendation, persuaded him that his same abroad throughout the whole world, entitled him to the homage of the East. He did not content himself with the enjoyment of these vain honours; he endeavoured to improve the disposition of the king of Siam, to the benefit of the India Company, and still more of the missionaries. He sent out a squadron with more Jesuits than traders; and in the treaty which was concluded between the two kings, the French ambassadors directed by the Deficit Richard, attended much more to the concerns of religion than to those of com mere. THE company frill entertained great hopes of the fettle ment at Siam, and these hopes were not ill grounded. THAT kingdom, though it is divided by a ridge of mountains that runs on till it meets with the rocks of Tar mary, is so prodigiously fruitful, that many of the cultivated lands yield two hundred to one. Some will even bear plentiful crops spontaneously. That grain, left to the care of nature, rows itself again, and grows the next,year,
B O K year, without any other culture than what the waters of, the river afford, which flows all across the kingdom there is, perhaps, no country where fruits grow in such plenty and variety, or are so wholesome, as in this delightful spot. Some are peculiar to the country, and others are much higher flavoured than any where else. THE earth, always covered with these ever-growing treasures, conceals, under a very thin surface, mines of gold, copper, loadstone, iron, lead, and cabin, that spectre of tin which is so highly esteemed all over Asia. ALL these advantages are rendered useless by the most horrid despotism. A prince corrupted by his very power, oppresses his people by his caprices, whilst he is indulging in his seraglio, or £offers them to be oppressed by his in silence. At Siam there are none but slaves, and no sub. jets. The men are divided into three classes: the first serve as a guard to the monarch, till his lands, and work at different trades in his palace. The second are ap. pointed to public labours, and to the defence of the state. The last are magistrates, ministers, the principal officers of the kingdom. No Siamese is advanced to any eminent post, but he is allowed a certain number of men who are at his disposal; so that the salaries annexed to great offices are well paid at the court of Siam, because they are not paid in money, but in men, who coif the prince nothing. These unfortunate people are registered at the age of fix. teen. On the first summons every one must repair to the post assigned him, upon pain of being put in irons, or condemned to the bastinado. Is a country where all the men must work for the go. government for fix months in the year, without being paid or subsisted, and the other fix to earn a subsistence for the whole year; in such a country, the very lands must see' the eftcft3 of tyranny, and consequently there is no pro party. Thole idelzious fruits that enrich the gardens o,tl
the monarch and the grandees, are not suffered to ripen B O0 K,Iv. in those of private men. If the soldiers who are sent out to examine the orchards, discover some choice tree, they never fail to mark it for the tyrant's table, or those of his mi fishers. The owner becomes the guardian of it, and is answerable for the fruit, under very severe penalties. THE men are not only slaves to men but to the very beats. The king of Siam keeps a great number of elephants Those of his palace are waited upon, and treated with extraordinary honours. The meanest have fifteen slaves to attend them, who are constantly employed in ga thing grass, bananas and sugar canes for them. The king takes so much pride in there creatures which are of no real use, that he rates his power rather by their num ber than by that of his provinces. Under pretence of feeding them well, their attendants will drive them into grounds and orchards to destroy them, unless the owners will purchase an exemption from these hardships by con tindal presents. No body would dare to shut his field against the king's elephants, many of whom are decorated with honourable titles, and advanced to the highest dig cities in the fate. So many kinds of tyranny make the Siamese detest their native country, though they look upon it as the best upon earth. Mos of them fly from oppression into the forests, where they lead a savage life, infinitely preferable to that of society corrupted by despotism. So great is this desertion, that from the port of Mergus to Julia the capital of the empire. you may travel for a week to gather and not meet with the least population, through immense plains, well watered with a fine rich soil and still bearing the marks of former culture. That fine country is now over-run with tygers. IT was formerly peopled with men. Befit .es the natives, it was full of colonies, which were come successively from all the eastern parts of Asia. Their inducement was the,inlmmnfe
B 0 0 K immense trade carried on there. Ail historians attests that in the beginning of the sixteenth century, a vast number of sips came into their roads every year. That tyranny which prevailed soon after proved the destruction of the mines, manufactures and agriculture. With them disappeared all the foreign merchants, and even the trad ing part of the nation. The state sell into confusion, and consequently grew languid. The French, on their arrival found it sunk into this state of degradation. It was in general poor, and under the dominion of a despotic tyrant who, engrossing all the trade to himself, nut of course bring it to nothing. What few ornaments and ar titles of luxury were consumed at court and in the houses of the great, came from Japan. The Siamese had a great regard for the Japanese, and were very fond of their work. IT was no easy matter to divert them from this attach ment, and yet it was the only way of procuring a demand for the produce of French industry. If any thing could effect this change, it was the Christian religion, which the priests of the foreign missions had preached to them, and not without success; but the Jesuits, too much de voted to Falcon, who began to be odious, abused the fa your they enjoyed at court, and drew upon themselves the hatred of the people; and this odium reflected upon their religion. They built churches before there were any christians. They founded monasteries, and by these pro meetings revolted the common people and the Talapoys. These are their monks; some live solitary, and some are in trifling men. They preach to the people the doctrines and precepts of Common Sodom. That lawgiver of the Siamese was long honoured as a sage, and has since been revered as a god, or as an emanation of the deity, a son of god. They relate a thousand wonderful stories of this man. He lived upon one grain of rice a-day. He pulled out one of his eyes to give to a poor man, having nothing le to give him. Another time he gave away his wise. He,commnandec
commanded the stars, the rivers and the mountains. But B O O K,Iv. he had a brother who was always thwarting his endeavours for the good of mankind. God avenged him, and crucified that unhappy brother. This fable prejudiced the Siamese against the religion of a crucified God; and they could not revere Jesus Christ, because he died the same death as the brother of Common Sodom. IF the French could not carry their commodities to Siam? they could at least inspire the people with a taste for them, prepare the way for a great trade with this country, and avail themselves of that which equally offered, to open connections with all the east. The situation of that king dom between two gulphs, where it takes up one hundred and sixty leagues of sea-coast on the one, and about two hundred on the other, would have opened the navigation of all the seas in that part of the world. The fortress of Banco, built at the mouth of the Mean, which had been put into the hands of the French, was an excellent mart for all dealings they might have had with China, the Phi pippins, or any of the eastern parts of India. Mergui, the principal port of the kingdom, and one of the belt in Asia, which had likewise been ceded to them, greatly fa ciliated their trade with the coast of Coromandel, and chiefly with Bengal. it secured to them an advantageous intercourse with the kingdoms of Pegu, Ava, Aracam and Lagos, countries still more barbarous than Siam, but where are found the finest rubies and some gold dust. All these countries, as well as Siam, produce the tree which yields that precious gum, with which the Chinese and Japanese make their varnish; and whoever is in possession of this commodity, may be sure of carrying on a very lucrative trade with China and Japan. BESIDES the advantage of coming into good fettle ments, which were no expence to the company, and might throw into their hands a great part of the trade of the east, they might have brought home from Siam ivory.,logwood
B O 0 K logwood like that which is cut in the bay of Campeachy,,IV.,a great deal of cassia, and all that quantity of buffalo and deer skins that the Dutch formerly fetched from thence. They might have grown pepper there, and, possibly, other spices which were not to be found there, as they did not understand the culture of them, and because the wretched inhabitants of Siam are so indifferent to every thing, that nothing succeeds with them. THE French paid no attention to there object. The favors of the company, the officers, the Jesuits, all were ignorant of trade: their whole attention was taken up in con venting the natives, and making themselves masters of them. At lait, after having given a very trifling assistance to Fault. kon, at the instant when he was ready to execute his designs, they were involved in his disgrace; and the fortresses so Mergui and Hancock, defended by French troops, were taken from them by the basest of all nations. Puling the (short time that the French were fettled at Siam, the company fought to get a footing in Ton quin. They flattered themselves that they might trade safely and to advantage with a nation which had for ages been insure-ed by the Chinese. Their religion is Theism, the doctrine of Confucius, whose precepts and writings are held in greater veneration than even in China. But there is not the same agreement as in China between the principles of government, religion, laws, opinion, rites and ceremonies. Accordingly, though Tonquin has the same lawgiver, it is far from having the same mo rats. You find there neither that respect for parents, that love for the prince, those reciprocal affections, nor those social virtues which you meet with in China; nor have they the same good order, police, industry or activity. THIS nation, which is devoted to excessive indolence, and is voluptuous without taste or delicacy, lives in con tant distrust of its sovereigns and strangers. It is doubts whether their seditious humour proceeds from a natura,reftleffnef
restlessness of temper, or whether the Chinese system of B o o K morality has intrusted the people without mending the government. The improvement of knowledge, whether it ascends from the people to the government, or descends from that to the people, should unite their assistance, else it will be productive of fatal revolutions. In Ton quin, there is a continual struggle between the eunuchs who govern, and the people who impatiently bear the yoke. Every thing languishes and tends to ruin in the midst of these dissentions; and thee calamities turf increase, till the people have compelled their mailers to grow whiter, or the matters have rendered their fiubjefCs quite insensible. The portuguese and the Dutch who had attempted to form some connections in Tonquin, had been forced to give them up. The French were not more successful. No Europeans have since carried on that navigation, ex kept fume few merchants of Madrasss, who have alternately forsaken and resumed it. They divide with the Chinese the exportation of copper and ordinary silks, the only to tenable commodities that country affords. CocHINCHIn-. lay too near Siam not to draw the at mention of the French, and they would, probably, have fixed there, had they had sagacity enough to foresee what de gree of splendour that riling state would one day acquire. The Europeans ale indebted to a philosophical traveller for what little they know-with any certainty concerning that fine country. The following is the result of his ob sensations. WHEN the French arrived in those defiant regions, they learned that about half a century before, a prince of Ton quin as he was flying from his sovereign, who pursued him as a rebel, had, with his soldiers and adherents, crossed the river, which fives as a barrier between Ton quin and Cochinchina. The fugit es, who were warlike and civilized men, soon expelled the scattered inhabitants, who wandered about without any society or-form of go government, or any laws but that mutual interest which VOL. I. E e prompted
B O O K prompted them nor to injure one another. Here hey', founded an empire upon the principles of culture and property. Rice was the food the most easily cultivated, and the molt plentiful; upon this, therefore, the nes colonists beirov-ed their first attention. The sea and the rivers afforded an ample provision of excellent fish, which was an inducement to inhabit their banks. They bred domestic animi !, fcer.e for soc d d others for labour. They cultivated the trees they were met in want of, suc! as the cortes ior their clothing. The mountains ant forests, which could not possibly be cultivated, afforded wild fowl, metals, gums, perfumes and timbers of an ex silent kind. Thele productions proved so many mate rials, nm:-:;s and ci;.:cts of commerce. One hundred gallies were built, xvhich ane conft-.aty employed in descending th oaf ole s o e kingdom. ALL these several advantages were well bestowed upon a people of a wild and humane disposition; a disposition which they partly owe to the women, either from the natrinl ascendant of beauty, or from their assiduity to labour, or from their readiness business. In general, it is certain, that in the si,11 beginnings of all societies;, the women ane sooner civilized than the men. Their very v-weaknes, their sedentary life, their being more taken up with a variety of Icleir cares, furnish theme sooner with that knowledge and experience, and in cline them to those domestic attachments, which are the fret promoters rnd i.ron(cli ties of society. Tlhi is, perhaps, the reason why, in many savage nations, the women are intruded with the administration of civil go government, which is bu: a higher degree of domestic octo. corny. So long as the state is but as one great family, ths women are capable of undertaking the management of it Then, undoubtedly the people are happiest, especially ii a climate where nature has left but little for man to do. SUCH is the climate of Convincing. The people though but imperfectly civilized, enjoy that happinel,whic
*which might excite the envy of more improved societies. B 0 o0 K,IV. They have neither robbers, nor beggars. Every one is at liberty to liv at his own house, or at his neighbour's. A traveller freely enters a house in any village, fits doivn to table; eats and drinks, without being invited or asked any questions, and then goes away without returning thanks. He is a man, ard therefore a friend and relation of the family. If he is a foreigner, he will excite more curiosity, but is equally welcome. THssts customs are the relics of the government of the fix first kings of Cochinchina, a::d derived from the original contra entered into between the nation and their leader, before they crossed the river that divides Tonquin from Cochinchina. These men were weary of oppression. Thcv dreaded the like calamity, and therefore took care to guard against the abuse of authority, which is so apt to transgress its due limits, if not kept under some restraint. Their chief, who had set them an example of liberty, and taught them to revolt, promised them that felicity tvich he himself chose to enjoy; that of a just, mild and parental government. HeI ctitiv:;ted with them the land into which the h ad taken refuge toSct!:er. He lever demanded any thing of them, but a yearly :1.:1 voluntary supply, to engage him to defend the notion against the tyrant of Tonrcqin, who, for a long tenir:, pursued them beyond the river. This primitive contrast waViS reliiotufy observed 1;. upwards of a certify, ind.' nd ive or fix successors of that brave de!ii-c'-c : hilt at t it has been infringed. This reciprocal and solemn engagement is iti!l renewed every ye:ir in the face of heaven :end earth, in a general a!- fciblv of the wvhoic nation, held in opal air, where th , oidellt omnia presides, and where the king only assists as a private lperlboi. Tilt prince still honours and prote's agriculture, but dots net like lii pr-declfibrs ft the ex ample of labour. .;'hen lie f cats of hiE fibers, hest e still
B o o K fill says, they are my children; but they are no longer so. I . . His courtiers have hailed themselves his slaves, and have given him the pompous and f sacrilegious title of king of beaten. From that moment, men must have appeared to him but as so many infers creeping on the ground. The gold which he has digged olutof the mines, has put a flop to agriculture. He has despised the homely roof of his ancestors, and would have a palace. Its circumference has been marked out, and comprehends a whole league. Thousands of cannon planted round the walls of this palace, make it formidable to the people. It now incloses a despotic monarch; in a short time he will no more be seen; and this divisibility, which constitutes the majesty eastern kings, will substitute the tyrant to the father of the nation. THE discoverY of gold has brought on that of taxes; and the name of administration of the finances will soon supercede that of civil legislation and social contrast. Con tribulations are no longer free-will offerings, but extortion; levied by compulsion. Designing men go to the king's palace, and craftily obtain the privilege of plundering the provinces. With gold they at once purchase a right of committing crimes, and the privilege of impunity: they bribe the courtiers, elude the vigilance of the magistrates and oppress the husbandmen. The traveller al ready fees as he passes along fallow grounds, and whole villages forsaken by their inhabitants. This king of heaven, like the gods of Epicurus, carelessly fusser plagues and calamities to vex the land. He is ignorant of the sufferings and distresses of his people, who will soon fall into a state of annihilation, like the savages whose territories they now possess. All nations governed by despotism m;u1t inevitably perish in this manner. If Cochinchina relapses into that chaos out of which it emerged about a hundred and fifty years ago, it will be wholly disregarded by the navigators who nov frequent reports of that kingdom. The Cli-,nefc,
nec, who carry on the greatest trade there, get in ex B O 0 K,IV. change for their own commodities wood for finally work, and timber for building houses and chips. AN immense quantity of sugar, the raw at four livres a a hundred weight, the white at eight b, and sugar-candy at ten C. Very good fill, !attains, and pitre, the fibres of a tree, not unlike the banana, which they fraudulently mix in their manufactures. Black and ordinary tea, which serves for the consumption of common people. Such excellent cinnamon, that it fells three or four times dearer than that of Ce. ion. There is very little of it; it grows only upon one mountain, which is always surrounded with guards. Excellent pepper, and filch pure iron, that they work it as it comes out of the mine, without fighting. Gold of three and twenty carrots. It isffotud there in greater plenty than in any other part of the East. eagle-wood, which is more or less esteemed as it is more or less resinous. The pieces that contain moRi of this rosin are commonly taken from the heart, or from the root of the tree. They are called calunbac, and are always sold for their weight in gold to the Chinese, who account them the highest cordial in nature. They are carefully preserved in pewter-boxes, to keep them from drying. When they are to be administered they are ground upon a marble, with filch liquids as are best (united to the disorder they are intended to remove. The inferior eagle-wood, which always fells at leat a hundred livres d a pound, is carried to Persia, Turky, and Arabia. They 1tfe it to perfume their cloaths, and sometimes their apart ments, upon very particular occasions, and then they mix it with amber. It is also used for another purpose. It is a custom among thole nations, when they are desirous of shewing their visitors great civilities, to present them with pipes, then with coffee and sweetmeats. When conversations. 6d. 7. 4, 8s. d, 4 7. 6d.,E c begins
B OO0 K begins to grow languid, the sherbet is brought in, which i> * looked upon as a hint to depart. As soon as the firanger,riles to go away, they bring in a little pan with eagle-woo d, and perfume his beard, sprinkling it with-rosewater. Though the French, who had scarce any thing else to bring but cloth, lead, gunpowder, and brimstone, were obliged to trade with Cochinchina chiefly in money, yet they were under a ncceiifty of pursuing this trade in com petition with the Chinese. This inconvenience might have been obviated by the profit that would have been made pon goods sent tr Europe, or sold in India; but it is now too late to a'-ter.?t ir. l'iobiry and honesty, the essentials of an active and solid trade, are forsaking these regions, which-were formerly so flourishing, in proportion as the government becomes arbitrary, aid consequently unjust. In a. short time no greater number of filius will be ;ea in their harbours than in those of the neighbouring state;, where they v-cre :scarcely kro; ,n. Howi-VCER this may be, the French company drive from Slam, and without h'o.es of fettling at the extremities of Aria, bgr.ga 1o regret their f!icory at Sugar, w-cre they dared not appear again, since tCiey had left it wi-lout pa ing their debts. They had lost the only market they knew of for t';cir cloths, their lead, and their iron; and tr.-y were continually at a loss in the purchase of goods to a-ni.er the fancies of the mother country, and the wants of the colonies. By fulfilling ail their lorimer engngo-ment: , they might have recovered their fitted liberty. 'I 'e' Mogul guvi.'-cr;: ccn t visited for a greater competition in their roads, and would have prci-circd te French to the-ngi.lb, vl.o hFd purchased oi the court an corruption from all dutic:, E-d o'.en urged them to it. V'hethcer it was for i wat of hoi-eiey, of ski;, or of mean, certain it is that the compare y nievcr could rcr.cm e tlc reproach they rh'.d ir-currie. 'icy confined their hei c .uttecticn :o .;, for;i.;i lg of F'oditcherry, when ts:'i
were suddenly prevented by a bloody war, which was ot ing B 0 0 K,IV. to remote calls. . THE northern Barbarians who had overturned the Rn 1 be nls man empire, that was mistress of tlhc s old, established a ),.,- ,, form of government which i ould not admit of augmenting iibcrry, their conquests, and kept every Irate within its natural-r.l i, r limits. The abolition of the feudal laws, and the altera lhi'r:l'-,me:1t i millions consequent upon it, fccned to tend to a second dia. universal monarchy; but the Austrian power, weakened by the great extent of their possessions and their distance from each other, could not overturn th-e bulwarks that were raising again it. After a whole century of con tests, hopes, and disappointments, it was forced to yield to a nation, whose strength, position, and activity, ren tered her more formkcl':bc to the liberties of Europe. Richelieu and Mazarine began ths; rc.-hcltion by ther intrigues. T turenne and Coi:dc compelled it by tlIir victories. Colbert settled it by the mintodu:Lion of art;, and of all kinds of indiltfry. If Lew-is XIV. x io ira be laid to have been not, perhaps, the gs!cn:cf moilaich es his age, but one who best supported the dignii: of the throne, hash been more moderate in the exercise of lib power, and the sense of his grandeur, it is difficult to determine how far he might have carried his good fortune. His vanity proved detrimental to his ambition. After bend ing his own subjects to his will, he wanted to do the same r.ith his neighborhood. Isis pride raised him more cneneies than his influence and his genius could supply hin sith allies and resources. liE nas delighted with the flatteries of his p.ani er ris and courtiers, who pronmicfd him universal illoniscl'l , and the pleasure le took ins there ads talons contributed still more than the extent of his poorer to ii!liire a dread of universal conquest ant flattery. ' The distress's and invectives of his protestant i shines dis;l-ied bv a Cl ran nicol finllticifn, compacted the hticld lie had ioc'.Lr;d,E c + by
B 0 O K by his successes, and the abuse he made of his prof g-" . perty.,THE Prince of Orange, a man of a steady, upright disco. fiction, and of a penetrating judgment, endowed with every virtue that is consistent with ambition, became the center oi all these resentments, which he had long fomented by his negociations and his emissaries. France was attacked by the most formidable confederacy recorded in history, and yet she was constantly triumphant. SHE was not so successful in Asia as in Europe. The Dutch first endeavoured to prevail upon the natives to at tack Pondicherry, which they could never be compelled to restore. The Indian prince, to whom they applied for that purpose, was not to be bribed by their gold to agree to si perfidious a proposal. His constant answer was, Tin French have bough that place, it would be unijuif to turn them out. What the Raja refused to do, the Dutch did themselves. They besieged the town in 1693, and were obliged to restore i: at the peace of Ryswick, in a much better condition than they friend it. MiARTI was again appointed director, and managed the affairs of the company with that wisdom, skill, and i:itegrit;, which was expected from him. That able and-virtuous merchant de.c:v fresh colonists to Pondicherry, and made the place agreeable to them, by the good order he inalataincd there, and by his moderation and jurficc. He found iec.as to he beloved by the neighbouring princes, 'hose fricrdihpi was of coll:squencc to an infant colony. He fele:fied ant t.-a;ncd un , c-i-cccn subjects, and sent them :o ther iatic :- r.;:::, and to the fc eras princes. He had pervaded tic S-c!:c, that as they were cone !aft to ndC., sin:-g t'l:nl;'c- I;'.r e in a weak condition, ;red 'thou: h-:3 es a''.T.nc - fu-nm !hotel, the orly way to succeed wav, to give l:e natives a good opinion or them. Ile male tna hem p ; off that i. i.-::d riot; i:;ornniul diir,.:: . t fn .:. h- r i i.:.' i lc;:ablc to firancges.,Ti'ey
They grew modest, gentle, and assiduous to business; they B O O K learnt the art of behaving suitably to the genius of the - . several nations, and to particular circumstances. Those who did not confine themselves to the company's service, frequenting different courts, got acquainted with the places where the finest stuffs were manufactured, the staples where the choicest commodities were to be met with, and, in short, with all the particulars relative to the inland trade of every country. ALL that Martin could do was to lay the foundation of future success to the company, by the good opinion he gave of the French, by the pains he took to train up agents, by the informations he acquired, and by the good order he maintained in Pondicherry, which daily acquired new inhabitants; but all this was not sufficient to invigorate a feeble constitution as that of the company had al ways been. THE first scheme was to establish a great empire at Ma Decline of madagascar. A tingle armament carried over 1688 persons, th Fr"nch,company, who were made to expect a delightful climate and a rapid a d the fortune, whereas they found nothing but famine, discord, calf oflr. and death. So unfortunate a beginning discouraged the adventurers from an undertaking, which they had entered upon for fa sion's fake, or out of complaisance. The owners of shares had not made good their payments so punluatally as they ought, which is an essential thing in commercial con ceres. The government, which had engaged to lend without interest a fifth part of the shuns which ficul!d come into the company's coffers, and had as yet been called upon but for two millions a, again drew the same from out of the public treasure, in hopes of supporting the work they had begin. Some time after, they carried their ge ferocity further still, and freely gave what at first was only icnTt.,THIS
B o O K THIS sacrifice of the ministry could not, however, en-sable the company to proceed in their operations. They were forced to confine them to Surat and Pondicherry; and to abandon their settlements at Bantam, Rajapore, Tiller, Mazulipatam, Gombroon and Siam. No doubt they had too many factories, and some were ill situated; but this was not the reason for putting them down; it was merely their inability to support them soon after, they were obliged to proceed a step further. In 162z, they gave permission indiscriminately to French subjects and foreigners to trade to the East Indies for five years on the company's chips, paying the freight that Could be agreed upon; and on condition that the goods brought home should be deposited in the company's ware houses, sold with their ox n, and pay them a duty of five per cent. The public to eagerly came into this proposal, that the directors entertained great hopes from the in crease of these fall profits, which would be constant without any risque. But the proprietors, despising there lesser emoluments, and jealous of the great profits made by the free traders, in tis years time obtained a repeal of this regulation, and their charter remained in fill force. To support this monopoly with some decency, they wanted money. In 168+, the company obtained from government a call upon all the proprietors, amounting to a quarter of their concern ; and in cale any one failed to pay his call, his whole share was to be made over to an ether who had paid it for him. Whether from perverseness from good reasons, or from inahiii-y, many did not pay, so that their stares loll three fourths of their original value; and to the shame of the nation, men were found so barbarous or so unjur as :o enrich theimhcflcs with their spoils. THIs dishonourable excdci:: c. e named them to fit out a few slips for Aia ; br-: ;:;v .'::r.rs :ierc 'bon felt. This,er-::c!
cruel situation, which grew.worfe and worse, put them B o o K,IV. upon demanding of the proprietors, in 1697, the reftitu- ;' tion of the dividends of ten and twenty per cent. which they had received in 1687 and 1691. So extraordinary a proposal raised a general clamour. They were obliged to have recourse to the usual method of borrowing. Thele loans became more chargeable, the more they were multiplied, because the security grew more precarious. As the company was in want both of money and credit, the emptiness of their coffers put it out of their power to afield those advantages to tile merchant in India, and that encouragement, without which he will neither work nor set others to work. This inability reduced the French sales to nothing. It is demonstrable, that from 1664 to 1684, that is, in the space of twenty years, the sum total of their produce did not exceed nine millions one hun died thousand livres a. To these had been added other abuses. The con duff of the administrators and agents for the company had not been properly dirctdcd, or duly looked into. They had broken into their capital, and paid dividends out of their stock, which ought only to have arising from the profits. The least brilliant and lea prosperous of all reigns had exhibited a model for a commercial company. The trade to China, the eaflcft, the 1' ;left and the not ad advantageous that is carried on sir l Asia, had bccn given up to a particular body of mercians. THE bloody war of 1689, added to the calamities of the ilia company, even by the very ilucclits of France. Swarms of privateers, fitted out from the several !:a bo:srs in the kingdom, annoyed by their vigilance and bravery the trade of Holland and England. In their numberless prizes were found a prodigious quantity of India goods, Ishich were retailed at a low price. The company, who,a res, S5.,by
- 0 o0 K by this competition were forced to sell under prime cost,, fought to find our some expedient to save themselves from this extremity, but could think of none that was reconcilable with the interest of the privateers, nor did the minister think proper to sacrifice an useful set of men, to a body who had so long wearied him with their murmurs and complaints. AFTER all, the company had many more causes of discontent The financiers had shewn an open hatred for them, and were continually thwarting and clogging them. Supported by those vile associates which they always have at court, they endeavoured to annihilate the India trade, under the specious pretence of encouraging the home ma nufacures. 'Th government was at firil afraid of being exposed to reproach, by departing from the principles of Colbert, and repealing the croft fclcmn edits: but the farmers of the rcc;:U; found means to render those privileges useless, which the ministry would not abolish; and without being absolutely deprived of them, the company no longer enjoy L-d them. Heavier duties vere successively laid upon all India goods. Half a year seldom patted, without bone new re mutation, sometimes to llcow, ornetimes to prohibit the ufc of t!:ef co.-rn.odiri.s: these was a continued scene of contradictions, i. a part of administration that would have required steady and invariable principles. All these wavering ga-.e Europe room to think that trade would hardly be ct.aii::cd in a kingdom where all depends upon the caprices of a msiniliar, or the interests of those who govern. Tir conduct of an ignorant and corrupt administration the leitry and impatience of the proprietors, the ieifilh ealoiify rs the finance, the oppressive spirit of the trca:r-., joined to other rcaues, had prepared the ruin of the c:;' ;:y-. The miseries of the wa-r lor the Spanish iic- cc!ion ::it':itd their (dftru::i'n.,- ERe'.saR'
EvERY resource was exhausted. The most sanguine B O IO,Iv. saw no prosper of making the least armament. Besides, if by orme unexpected good fortune they should chance to fit out some few weak veflTlse it was to be feared they might be seized in Europe, or in India, by disappoint. ed creditors, who must be exasperated at being io long trifled with. These powerful motives determined the company in 1707, to consent that some rich merchants Should send their own ships to India, upon condition that they should allow the company fifteen per cent. profit upon the goods they should bring home, and the right of taking such there in those ships as their circumstances should admit of. Soon after this, they were even reduced to make over the whole and exclusive exercise of their privilege to some privateers of St. Malo, frill reserving the same concession, which for some years pair had in rome degree kept them alive. NoTWITHSTANDING this desperate situation, in 1714 they solicited the renewal of their charter, which was nearly-at an end, and which they had enjoyed for half a century. The ministry, who did not know, or would not see that there were proper measures to be taken, granted them an indulgence for ten years longer. This new regulation took place but in part, in consequence of some ex extraordinary events, the causes of which we shall next in quire into. WHoEvER has been accustomed to trace the progress The French of empires, has always considered the death of Colbert as c^^r,,'r the period that put an end to the true prosperity of ri'.;-' of,i's ancient France. She still appeared with some outward splendor, fp.lrr but her inward decay increased daily. Her finances, ad fly, tL , ministered without order or principle, sell a prey to a mule s.t'n .ici.;l latitude of rapacious farmers of the revenue. These people r: y."' made themselves necessary by their very extortions, and went so far as to give the law even to government. The confusion ufunr, and continual alterations in the coin, the re-,dtulicln
B o o K dubious of interest, the alienation of the domain and ;. . of the taxes, engagements which it was impossible to fulfil;,thecreation pensions and places, the privileges and ex emotions of all kinds, and a thousand other evils, each more ruinous than the other, were the consequences of id corrupt an administration. THE loss of credit soon became universal. Bankrupt lies were more frequent. Money grew scarce, and trade was at a stand. The consumption was smaller. The culture of lands was neglected. Artists went over to foreign countries. The common people had neither food nor clothing. The nobility served in the army without pay, and mortgaged their lands. All orders of men groaned under the weight of taxes, and were in want of the necessaries oflife. The royal effets had lost their value: The con tracts, upon the hotel de ville sold but for half their worth, and the bills of sale sell eighty or ninety per cent. under par. Lewis XIV, a little before his death, was in great want of eight millions a; and was forced to give bonds for 3 ,ooo,ccob, which was borrowing four hundred per cent. IN this confusion were public affairs, when the Duke of Orleans took the reins of government. Those whir were for violent measures, proposed to sacrifice the creditors of the state to the landholders, as the' former were in proportion to the latter but as one to fix hundred. The regent refused to come into a measure that wold have landed an indelible stain upon his administration. He preferred an inquiry into the public engagements to a total bankruptcy. Notwithstanding IN the reduction of 56o,cCo,oooC of flock to bearer, to 2a5o,ooo,CC d of government: bonds, the national debt amounted to z6z,138,col livres ' at twenty-eight livres f the mark, the interest of which, at four per cent. amounted to 89,983,453 livres g.,350o,col b ,4coool. c 2i,5 c.C'L' 39 ro1,75o4 l. ' gc~ S, 7. I-i;. $;II. 4S. 6d. t 3,9 :6,;77. ;:. 4d',iT!;
THIs enormous debt, which nearly absorbed the whole B 0 0 K,1V. of the public revenue, suggested the idea of appointing a . . bed justice, to call those to account who had been the authors of the public calamities, and had enriched them selves with the spoils of the nation. This inquiry only served to expose to public view the incapacity of the ministers who had been intrusted with the management of the finances, the craft of the farmers of the revenue who had swallowed them up, and the baseness of the courtiers who had sold their interest to the first bidder. By this experiment honest minds were confirmed in the abhorrence they always had for such a tribunal. It degrades the dig city of the prince who fails to fulfil his engagements, and exposes to the people the vices of a corrupt administration It is injurious to the rights of the citizen, who is accountable for his nations to none but the law. It strikes terror into the rich, who are marked out as delinquents merely because they are rich, be their fortunes well or ill gotten. It gives encouragement to informers, who point out, as fit objects for tyranny, such as it may be advantageous to ruin. It is composed of unmerciful leeches, who see guilt wherever they suspect there is money. It spares plunderers, who find means to secret their wealth in time; and strips honest men who thought themselves secure in their innocence. It sacrifices the interests of the treasury to the whims of a few greedy, profligate and ex extravagant favourites. Whist France was exhibiting to all Europe the cruel and disgraceful spectacle of these complicated. evils, a Scotch empiric arrived at Paris, who for some time had been travelling about, and making a show of his talents, hurried on by his own restless disposition. His fiery ge nisus, and peremptory manner, was capable of bearing down every argument, and surmounting every difficulty. In 1716 he suggested the idea of a bank, the success of which confounded his opponents, and even exceeded disown
B O O K own expectations. With ninety millions a that the Well,. India company furnished towards this bank, it gave new,life to agriculture, to trade, to arts, in short, to the whole nation. The author was extolled as an accurate, extensive and elevated genius, who despised fortune, aimed only at glory, and wanted to transmit his name to posterity by great actions. Such was the gratitude of the public, that he was thought to defer-e the highest ho hours. This astonishing prosperity gave him an unlimited authority. He made use of it in 1719 to unite the East and Weft India companies, as likewise those of Africa and China into one body. Commercial schemes were the least concern of the new society. They carried their ambition so far as to pretend to pay off all the national debt. The government granted them the sole vending of tobacco, the mint, the receipts and general farms, to enable them to pursue so grand a project. AT sirs, Law's schemes met with universal approbation Six hundred and twenty-four thousand shares, mostly bought with government bills, and which upon an average did net reallycoft Soo livres b, rose to I o,ooo lives , payable in bank notes. Such was the infatuation of the public, that not only Frenchmen but foreigners, and even the most sensible people, sold their flock, their lands, their jewels, to play this extraordinary game. Gold and silver were held in no estimation; and nothing but paper cur rency was fought after. THIS frenzy multiplied paper credit to such an amazing degree, that it circulated to the amount of 6,13S,243,590 livres d, in shares of India stock, or in bank notes, though there was actually in the kingdom no more than tweihe hundred millions ' in specie, at sixty livres the mark f. SvcH a disproportion might possibly have been born in a free nation, where it had been brought on by degrees. The ci-,"3,937.i cl.- ' zI . d73 . c 4371. ics. i 68,54i3,157L Is. 3d. · sz,5cc,oa ol. f si. i:. Sd.,tizci,
tiens, accustomed to consider the nation as a permanent B O K and independent body, trust to its security the more rea ,. daily, as they are seldom thoroughly acquainted with its powers, and have a good opinion of its equity, founded on experience. Upon the strength of this favourable prejudice credit is often stretched in those states beyond the real resources and securities of the nation. This is not the case in an absolute monarchy, especially such as have often broke their engagements. If an implicit confidence is shewn in a fit of phrenzy, the effet ceases with the cause. Their insolvency strikes every eye. The honesty of the monarch the mortgage, the flock, every thing appears imaginary, The creditor, recovered from his delirium, demands his money with a degree of impatience proportionable to his uneasiness. The history of the system will corroborate this truth. IN order to answer the first demands, they had recourse to very strange expedients. Gold was prohibited in trade; all persons were forbidden to keep by them more than five hundred livres a in specie. An edit was published, im porting several successive diminutions in the value of the coin. This had the desired effet ; people were now in nd hurry to draw their money from the bank; on the con tray, in less than a month they brought in calli to the amount of forty-four million, fix hundred, ninety fix thousand, one hundred, and ninety livres in specie, at eighty livres c the mark. As this infatuation could not be lasting, it was judged * expedient to lessen the disproportion between paper and money, by reducing the bank bills to half their value; and the Shares to five-ninths. The standard for the coin was fixed at eighty-two livres ten fols d the mark. This ope ration, the most rational, perhaps, that could have been devised in the critical situation of affairs, com plated the general confusion. The consternation was 2 1 s. 75 . 6d. i,955, 14 5 . d. 31. I$. 31. . s . 2d. ., Vo:. I. F f universal;
B O 0 K universal; every one imagined he had lost half his fortune,,IV.,and was in a hurry to call in the remainder. The.bank had no stock, and the stock-brokers found they had ont) been grasping at shadows. The foreigners, who had reals. zed their paper at first, and carried of one-third of the ready money of the kingdom, were the least losers. The hopes which the government had conceived of paying off the national debt disappeared with Law, and there remained no solid monument of the system, but an India Company whose shares were fixed by the liquidation of 1723, to th, number of fifty-fix thousand, but by subsequent event were reduced to fifty thousand, two hundred, sixty-eight and four-tenths. UNFORTUNATELY they preserved the privileges of ths several companies out of which this new one had beer formed; and this prerogative made them neither wise no powerful: it confined the negro trade, and flopped th, progress of the sugar colonies. Most of their privilege served only to authorise odious monopolies. The mo' fertile regions upon earth, when in their hands, were nes ther peopled nor cultivated. The spirit of finance, which restrains pursuits as much as the commercial spirit en larges them, became the spirit of the company, an tas continued ever since. The directors thought of nc thing but making money of the rights ceded to the corn any in Asia, Africa, and America. It became a society of farmers rather than a trading company. Nothing cous possibly be said in praise of their administration, had the rot been so honest as to pay off the debts accumulated i India for a century past; and had they not taken care 1 secure Pondicherry against any invasion, by surrounding with walls. Their trade was but poor and precarious ti Sorry was appointed to superintend the finances of tl nation. - of the THaT upright and disinterred minister call a blemi rich in upon his virtues, by a harshness of temper which I,- - shew
Shewed in a manner not much to the credit of the nation. B O O K,IV. One day that a friend was upbraiding him for his rudeness, J he answered, How can it be otherwise ? out of a hundred people See in a day, fifty take me fr afoot, andfifty for a Knave. He had a brother named Fully, who was less rigid in his principles, but had more affability, and greater capacity. He intruded him with the concerns of the com any, which could not but thrive in such hands. NOTWITHSTANDING the old ant new prejudices; not withstanding the abhorrence the publick had for a relic of the system; notwithstanding the authority of the Sorbonne which had decided that the divided upon the shares came under the denomination of usury; notwithstanding the blindness of a nation credulous enough not to be shocked at so absurd a decision, yet still the two brothers found means to convince Cardinal Fleury that it was right effectually to rapport the India Company, They even prevailed upon that minister, who was sometimes too parsimonious, to lavish the king's favours upon this establishment The care of superintending its trade and in creasing its powers, was afterwards committed to several persons of known abilities. DUMAS was sent to Pondicherry. He soon obtained leave of the court of Delhi to coin money; which privilege was worth four or five hundred thousand livres - a year. He obtained a cession of the territory of Karical, which en titled him to a considerable flare in the trade of Anjou. Some time after, a hundred thousand Marattas invaded the Dean. They attacked the nabob of Arcot, who was vanquished and fain. His family and several of his sub seas took refuge in Pondicherry. They were received with all the kindness due to allies in distress. Ragogi Bouffola, the general 6f the victorious army,, demanded, that they should be delivered up to him, and further re quire the payment of 1,2oo,ooo livres b by virtue of a,·About 19,7oo 1. on an average. 52,0o 1.,F f z tribute,
BO K tribute, which he pretended the French had formerly,IV. ^ submitted to.,DuLt s made answer; that so long as the Moguls had been masters of that country, they had always treated the French with the rcRpca due to one of the most illustrious nations in the world, which tooke pride in her turn in protecting her benefactors; that it was not in the nature of that magnanimous nation to deliver up a number of women and children, and of unfortunate and defenceless men, to see them put to death; that the fugitives then in the town were under the protection of his king, who es teemed it his highest honour to be the protector of the distressed; that every Frenchman in Pondicherry would gladly die in their defence; and that it was as much as his head was worth, if his sovereign was to know that he had so much as listened to the mention of a tribute. He added that he was ready to defend the place to the last extremity, and if he was overpowered, he would get on board his ships, and return to Europe. That Ragogi might consider of it, and see whether he chose to expose his army to utter definition, when the mols he could get by it was to take possession of a heap of ruins. THS Indians had not been accustomed to hear the French talk with so much dignity. This boldness stag gored the general of the Marattas, and after some negociations skilfully carried on, he determined to keep peace with Pondicherry. WHILST Dumas was procuring wealth and respect to the company, the government Lent la Bourdonnais to the isle of France. AT the time of ther first navigations to India, the Portuguese had discovered to the east of Madagascar, be tween :he 9i:h and doth degrees of latitude, three islands, to which they gave the names of Mafcarenhas, Cernó and Rodriguez. There they found neither men nor quatre pedi, and a: tempted no settlement upon either of the,islands,
islands. The most western of them, whchl'they had naiad B 0 o K Mafcarcnhas,-feri'ed as a-refuige about the year 1556 to fie Frenchmen, who before were fettled at Madagascar. There they found an extent of sixty miles in length and forty-five in breadth, full of mountains, and bur few plains. At first they bred cattle, and afterwards they cultivated European corn, Asiatic and African fruits, and some vegetables fit for that mild climate. The health, plenty and freedom they enjoyed, induced several sailors belonging to the ships that touched there for refreshments, to come and live amongst them. Industry brought on population In 1718, they procured soeur coffee-trees from Arabia, which succeeded tolerably well, though the fritz had lost much of its flavour. This culture, and other la various employments, were performed by slaves from the coast of Africa, or from Madagascar. Then the island, which had changed its name from Mafcarenhas to the Isle of Bourbon, became an important object to the company. In 1763, the population amounted to 4627 white people, and 15149 blacks; the cattle consisted of 870z beeves, 4084 sheep, 7405 goats, 7619 hogs. Upon an extent of 1259o9 acres of cultivated land, they gathered as much cassava as would feed their slaves, 1135000 pound weight of corn, 844100 pounds of rice, 2879100 pounds of maize, and z53,i oo pounds of coffee, which the company bought up at fix fols a a-pound. UNFORTUNATELY this valuable possession has no har your. This inconvenience determined the French to at tempt a settlement on the if:lnd of Cerne, where the Portuguese had, as ufilal, left some quadrupeds and fowls for the benefit of filch of their ships as should chance to call there. The Dutch, who afterwards took possession of it, forsook it for fear of multiplying their settlements too null. 'she island was uninhabited when the Frencll,a About 3d. F f fanldci
B 0 0 K landed there in 1720, and changed its name from Ma.,IV., ritius to the Ile of France, which it still bears.,TH first inhabitants that were sent thither, came over from Bourbon, and there they were forgotten for fifteen years. They only formed as it were a corps de garde, with orders to hang out a French flag, to inform all nations that the island had a master. The company, long unde termined, decided at last for the keeping it, and in 1735, la Bourdonnais was commissioned to improve it. That man, who has since been so famous, was born at St.Malo, and had been at sea from the age of ten years; all his voyages had been prosperous, and in every one he had signalized himself by some extraordinary action. He had reconciled the Arabs and the Portuguese, who were just going to murder one another in the road of Mocha: and had distinguished himself in the war at Mahe. He was the first Frenchman who ever thought of sending armed vessels into the Indian seas. He was known to be equally wilful in the art of ship-building, as in that of navigating and defending a hip. His schemes bore the marks genius, nor were his views contracted by the close attention he paid to all terminate particulars of whatever plan he undertook. Difficulties did but quicken his activity, and display his talent for disposing the men under his com. and to the best advantage. Nothing was ever laid tc his charge but an immoderate passion for riches; and it must be confessed he was not over scrupulous as to the means of acquiring them. HE was no sooner arrived at the Isle of France, than h( made it his bush ness to acquire every information he coule concerning it. He found it to be 31890 toises in it, greatest diameter, 22124 in its greatest breadth, and 43268( acres in surface. The greater part of this ground wg covered with almost impenetrable forests, and with noun rains not above 400 toises high. Most of these hills wen full of reservoirs of water, which poured down in stream,upol
upon a dark grey earth, entirely full of holes, and for the B 0 0 K,IV. most part f ony. THE sea coast was what la Bourdonnais chiefly attended to, and his principal observations related to the two har hours he found there. He thought the harbour on the south east side not worth attending to, on account of the regular and high winds, which make it impossible, or at leal very difficult, to fail out of it any season of the year. That on the north-west he found far preferable, though the Ships muff get to it through a narrow channel, be* tween two flats, and then be towed in, and though it will scarcely admit above thirty-five or forty fishes. As soon as la Bourdonnais had taken these necessary in. formations, he endeavoured to instil a spirit of emulation into the first colonies on the island, who were quite dis. courage at the neglea with which they had been treated, and to reduce to some subordination the vagrants lately arrived from the mother country. He made them cult. late rice and wheat, for the food of the Europeans, and cassava, which he had brought from Brazil for the slaves. They were to be furnished from Madagascar with meat for the daily consumption of the richer inhabitants and of sea-faring men, till the cattle they had procured from thence (hould have multiplied so considerably, as to prevent the necessity of importing any more. A post which he had established on the little island of Rodriguez, abundantly supplied the poor with turtle. Here, ships going to India soon found all the refreshments and conveniences they wanted after a tedious passage. Three ships were fitted out, one of which carried 500 tons burden. If the founder had not the satisfaction of bringing the colony to the utmost degree of prosperity it vas capable of, at least he had the credit of having discovered what degree of importance it might acquire in able hands. THESE improvements, however, though they ftcmed to he owing to iclllantminnt, did not meet with ir approb-,F f 4 ti
B O K tion of those who were principally concerned in themes and la Bourdonnais was compelled to justify himself. One,of the directors was asking him one day how it came about that he had done the company's business so ill, and his own so well. Beasts said he, I have done mine according tr my own judgment, and that of the company according to yasir dire.cins.,GRaEAT men have been always more useful to the public, than large bodies of men, Nations and societies are but the instruments of men of genius: these have been the true founders of states and colonies. Spain, Portugal, Holland and England, owe their conquests and settlements abroad to able warriors, experienced seamen, and legislators superior talents. France especially is more indebted to some fortunate individuals, than to the form of her government. One of those eminent men had just been fixing two important islands of Africa under the dominion of France; another frill more extraordinary person, whose name was Dupleix, added splendor to the French name in Asia. HE was first sent to the banks of the Ganges, where he superintended the colony of Chandernagore. That fettle ment, though on the fittest spot in the world for great commercial undertakings, had been but in a languishing condition, till he had the management of it. The com any was not able to send any great flock, and the agents who went over there without any fortune, had not been able to avail themselves of the liberty that was given them of ad chancing their own private affairs, as they were allowed to do. The activity of the new governor, who brought an ample fortune the reward of ten years successful labours, soon spread throughout the colony. in a country overflowing with money, they soon found credit, when once they shewed theii;eives deserving of it. In a short time, Chains dernagore became the wonder of its neighbours, and ex-,Fitcd
cited the envy of its rivals. Dupleix, who had engaged B o o K the rest of the French in his vast speculations, opened 'V. fresh sources of commerce all over the Mogul's dominions, and as far as Tibet. On his arrival he had not found a single sloop, and he fitted out fifteen armed vessels at once. These Ships carried on trade in different places in India, Some he sent out to the Red Sea, to the Gulph of Persia, to Surat, to Goa, to the Valdivia, and Manilla Islands, and to all the fas where there was a possibility of trading to advantage. DUI'LEIX had for twelve years supported the honour of the French name on the Ganges, and increased both pub hic and private fortunes, when he was called to Pondicherry to take upon him the general superintendency of all the company's affairs in India. They were then in a more flourishing condition than they had ever yet been, or have ever been since; for that year the returns amount ed to twenty four millions a. Had they continued to aft prudently, had they confided more in two such men as Dupleix and la Bourdonnais, they would probably have ac quire such power as would net have been easily destroyed. LA BOURDONNAIS foresaw an approaching rupture with England; and proposed a scheme which would have fe cured to the French the sovereignty of the seas in Asia, during the whole course of the war. He unconvinced that which ever nation should first take up arms in India, would have a manifest advantage over the other. He there fore desired to have a squadron, with which he should fail to the Isle of France, and there wait till hostilities began. From this place he was to go and cruize in the straits of Sunda, where most of the ships pass that are going to, or coming from China. There he would have intercepted all the English ships, and saved the French. He would even have seized upon the finally squadron which England sent into those very latitudes, and having thus,,050o,Ccol.,made
B O O K made himself masters the Indian seas, would have ruined,all the English settlements in those parts. THE ministry approved of this plan, and granted him five men of war, with which he set fail.,HE had scarcely set fail, when the directors, equally offended at their being kept in the dark as to the destination of the squadron, and at the expences it had occasioned them, and jealous of the advantage this would give to a man who, in their opinion, was already too inde. pendent, exclaimed against this armament as they had done before, and declared it to be useless. They were, or pretended to be, so fully convinced of the neutrality that would be obfen-ed in India between the 'two comp. nies, that they persuaded the minister into that opinion, when la Bourdonnais was no longer present to animate him and guide his inexperience. THE court of Versailles was not aware that a power supported chiefly by trade, would not easily be induced to leave them in quiet possession of the Indian Ocean; and that if she either made or listened to any proposals of neu trahit, it must be only to gain time. They were not aware that, even supposing such an agreement was made bona side on both sides, a thousand unforeseen events might interrupt it. They were not aware that the ob sect proposed could never be fully answered, because the sea-forces of both nations, not being bound by any private agreement made between two companies, would attack their Ships in the European seas. They were not aware that in the colonies themselves, they would make preparations to guard against a surprize; that these pre cautions would create mistrust on both sides; and that mistrust would bring on an open rupture. All there par culars were not perceived by them, and the squadron was recalled. Hostilities began, and the loss of almost every French flip going to India, shewed too late which of the two was the most judicious system of politics.,LA BOU.-
LA BOUsRDOSNAIS was as deeply affected for the errors B O O K,IV. that had occasioned the misfortunes of the nation, as if he had been guilty of them himself, and applied wholly to remedy them. Without magazines, without provisions, without money, he found means by his attention and perseverance to make up a squadron, composed of a sixty gun ship, and five merchantmen armed for war. He dared to attack the English squadron; he beat them, pursued and forced them to quit the coast of Coromandel; he then besieged and took Madrasss, the first of the English fettle ments. The victor was preparing for fresh expeditions, which were certain and easy; but he was opposed with all obstinacy, which cost 9,057,000 livres ., which was the stipulated ransom of the city, exclusive of the success which must necessarily follow this event. THE company was then governed by two of the king's commissaries, who were irreconcilable enemies. The di, rectors and the subalterns had taken part in the quarrel, according as their inclination or their interest led them. The two factions were extremely incensed against each other. That which had caused laBourdonnais's squadron to be taken from him, was enraged to see that he had found resources in himself, to ward off every blow that was aimed at him. There is good reason to believe, that this nation pursued him to India, and instilled the poison of jealousy into the heart of Dupleix. Two men formed to esteem and love each other, to adorn the French name and to descend together to posterity, became the vile tools of an animosity in which they were not the least interested. Dupleix opposed la Bourdonnais, and made him lose much time. The latter, after having staid too late on the coast of Coromandel, waiting for the succours which had been unnecessarily delayed, saw his squadron destroyed by a storm. A division arose amongst his usa. So many misfortunes brought on by the intrigues,*'96,-:431, 1;-<.,as
B o K of Dupleix, determined la Bourdonnais to return to Europe,,where a horrid dungeon was the reward of all his glorious services, and the end of all the hopes which the nation had built upon his great talents. The English, delivered from that formidable enemy in India, and recruited by great succours, found themselves in a condition to at tack the French in their turn, and accordingly laid siege to Pondicherry. DUPLEIX then made amends for pals errors. He de fended the town with great Dkiii and bravery; and after the trenches had been opened fix weeks, the English were forced to raise the siege. The news of the peace arrived soon after, and all hostilities ceased between; the com panes of both nations. THE taking of Madrasss, the naval combat of la Bourn donna, and the raising of the siege of Pondicherry, gave the Indian nations a high opinion of the French, and they were respected in those parts as the first and greatest of the European powers. DUPLEIX endeavoured to avail himself of this disposition and took care to procure great and solid advantages for his nation. In order to judge rightly of his pro jess, we must lay before the reader a description of the state of Hindostan at that time v-;. nf.,e IF we may credit uncertain tradition, that fine rich French to country tempted the sirs conquerors of the world. But, rh-ear'i. whether Bacchus, Hercules, Sefoftris, or Darius, did or .iiD.:i , did not carry their arms through that large portion of the globe, certain it is, that it proved an inexhaustible fused of fictions and wonders for the first Greeks. That people, ever credulous, because they were always carried away by their imagination, were so enchanted with these marvel vous stories, that they fill gave credit to them, even in the more enlightened ages of the republic. IF we consider this matter according to the principles of reason and truth, we shal find that a pure air, :\ hiollboie,2 food,
food, and great frugality, had early multiplied men to a pro B 0 0 K- vicious degree in Hindostan. They were acquainted with 1 laws, civil government and arts, whilst the rest of the earth was desert and savage. Wise and beneficial institutions pre served these people from corruption, and their only care was to enjoy the gifts of the earth and of the climate. If from time to time their morals were tainted in some of there states, the throne was immediately subverted; and when Alexander entered these regions, he found very few kings, and many free cities. A COUNTRY divided into numberless little states, some of which were popular, and others enslaved, could not make a very formidable resistance against the hero of Ma macedonia. His progress was rapids and he would have fib duet the whole country, had not death stopped his career in the midst of his triumphs. BY following this conqueror in his expeditions, the In tian Sandrocotus had learned the art of war. This ob cure man who had no claim but from his talents, col laced a numerous army, and drove the Macedonians out of the provinces they had invaded. The deliverer of his country then made himself master of it, and united all Hindostan under his dominion. How long he reigned, or what was the duration of the empire he had founded, is not known. AT the beginning of the eighth century, the Arabs over-ran India, as they did many other parts of the world. They subjected some few islands to their domi non, but, content with trading peaceably on the conti went, they made but few settlements on it. THREE centuries after this, some barbarians of their religion, who came out from Khoraffan headed by Mah- moud, attacked India on the north side, and extended their depredations as far as Guzarat. They carried off immense spoils from those wealthy provinces, and buried them under ground in their wretched and barren deferrs.,T1HESF.
B 0 0 K THESE calamities were not yet forgotten, when Gentis % kan, who with his Tartars had subdued the greatest parts Asia, brought his victorious army to the western coasts of India. This was about the year 1200. It is not known what part this conqueror and his descendants took in the affairs of Hindostan. Probably, they did not concern them fives much about them, for it appears that soon after, the Patans reigned over this fine country. THESE are said to have been Arabian merchants set ted on the coasts of Hindostan, who taking advantage of the weakness of the.feveral kings and nations who had admitted them, early seized upon several provinces, and founded a vast empire, of which Delhi was the capital. Under their dominion, India was happy; because mel educated to trade, had not brought along with them that spirit of devastation and rapine, which commonly attends invaders. THE Indians had scarce had time to accustom them. fives to a foreign yoke, when they were once more forced to change masters. Tamerlane, who came from great Tartary, and was already famous fortis cruelties and his victories, marched to the north side of Hindostan, at the end of the fourteenth century, with a triumphant and indefatigable army. He secured the northern provinces in per son, and abandoned the plunder of the southern parts to his lieutenants. He seemed determined to subdue all India, when on a sudden he turned his arms against Bajazet, over came and dethroned that prince; and by the union of all his conquests, found himfeffmafter of the immense space that extends from the delicious coast of Smyrna, to the fortunate borders of the Ganges. After his death, bloody wars deprived his posterity of his rich spoils. Babar, the sixth descendant of one of his children, alone survived to pre serve his name. THAT young prince brought up in sloth and luxury, reigned in Sarnarcand, where his ancestor had ended his,days.
days. The Beck Tartars dethroned him, and constrain B 00 K ed him to take refuge in the Cabuliftan. Ranguildas, the governor of the province, received him kindly, and gave him an army. THIS wise man addressed him in the following manner: " It is not towards the north where vengeance would na-naturally call thee, that thy steps must be directed. Sol tiers enervated by the pleasures of India, could not with out temerity attack warriors famous for their courage " and their victories. Heaven has conduced thee to the · banks of the Indus, in order to fix upon thy brow, one " of the richest diadems of the universe. Call thine eyes " on Hindostan. That empire, torn in pieces by the "incessant wars of the Indians and Patans, calls for a " master. It is in those delightful regions that thou "must establish a new monarchy, and raise thy glory ' equal to that of the formidable Tamerlane. THIS judicious advice made a strong impression on the mind of Babar. A plan of usurpation was traced out without loss of time, and pursued with activity and still. Success attended the execution. The northern provinces, not excepting Delhi, submitted after some resistance, and thus a fugitive monarch had the honour of laying the foundation of the power of the Mogul Tartars, which fufibfts to this day. THE preservation of this conquest required a form of government. That which Babar found established in In dia was a kind of despotism, merely relative to civil mat terms, tempered by customs, forms and opinion; in a word, adapted to that mildness which these nations derive from the influence of the climate, and from the more powerful influence of religious tenets. To this peaceable constitution Babar substituted a violent, and military despotism, such as might be expected from a conquering and barba rous nation.,RAN Builds
B O O K RANOUILDAS was long witness to the power ofthe news sovereign, and exulted in the success of his own councils the recollection of the steps hc had taken to place his ma fier's son upon the throne, filled his foul with heart-felt satisfaction. One day, as he was praying in the temple, he heard a Banian, who stood by him, cry out, " O God ! " thou seest the sufferings of my brethren. We are a prey " to a young man who considers us as his property, whiche may squander and consume as he pleases. Among ' the many children who call upon thee from these vast - regions, one oppresses all the rest: avenge us of the - tyrant; avenge us of the traitors who have placed him on the throne, without examining whether he was a just man." RAXGUILDAS, astonished, drew near to the Banian, and said; " O thou, who curses my old age, hear me. If I am " guilty conscience has misled me. When I restored ' the inheritance to the son of my sovereign, when I ex ' posed my life and fortune to establish his authority, God is my witness that I thought I was asking in con : forty to his wise decrees; and at the very instant "when 1 heard thy prayer, I was again thanking heaven "for granting me, in my latter days, those two greatest,of blessings, rest and glory." ' Glory? cries the Banian. Learn, Ranguildas, that glory bel-ngs only to virtue, and not to actions which are only splendid, without being useful to mankind. · Alas! what advantages did you procure to Hindostan, when you crowned the son of an usurper? Had you previously examined whether he was capable of doing good, and whether he would have the w ill and resolution to bejuft ? You say, you have restored to him the inherit tance of his fathers, as if men could be bequeathed " and possessed like lands and cattle. Pretend not to glory,,O Ranguildas ! or if you look for gratitude, go and seek " it in the heart of Babar he owes it you. You have,bought
a' bought it dear enough; the price has been the happier B o o K 1' ness of a whole nations. BBAAR, however, whilst he was bringing his fubjeas under the yoke of despotism, took care to limit its authority and to draw up his institutes with so much force, that his successors, though absolute, could not possibly be unjust. The prince was to be the judge of the people and the arbiter of the state; but his tribunal and his council were to be held in the public square. Injustice and tyranny love darkness in order to conceal themselves from their intended victims. But when the monarch's nations are to be submitted to the inspection of his subjects, it is a sign he intends them nothing but good. Openly to insult a number of men assembled, is such an outrage as even a tyrant would blush at. THE principal support of his authority was a body of four thousand men, who stiled themselves the first slaves of the prince. Out of this body were chosen the Omrahs, that is to say, those persons who composed the emperor's councils, and ort whom he bestowed lands, distinguished by great privileges. These fort of possessions always reverted to the crown. It was on this condition that all great offices were given. So true it is, that despotism enriches its haves only to strip them. GREAT interest, however, was made for the place of Omrah. Whoever aspired to the government of a pro vince, made this the object of his ambition. To prevent any project the governors might form for their own ag aggrandizement or independence, they always had overseers placed about them, who were not in the least subject to them, and who were commissioned to inspect the use they made of the military force they were entrusted with, to keep the conquered Indians in awe. The fortified towns were frequently in the hands of officers, who were accountable to none but the court. That suspicious court often sent for the governor, and either continued or turned him out, as VOL. I. G g it
B O o K it happened to suit her fluctuating policy. These viciff-,Iv.,tudes were grown so common, that a new governor com ing out of Delhi, remained upon his elephant with his face turned towards the city, waiting, as he said, to fib his fucair came out. THE form of government, however, was not the same throughout the empire. The Moguls had left several In tian princes in possession of their sovereignties, and even with a power of transmitting them to their descendents. They governed according to the laws of the country, though accountable to a nabob appointed by the court. They were only obliged to pay tribute, and to conform to the conditions-stipulated with their ancestors at the time of the conquest. TH E conquering nation minus not have committed any con. miserable ravages, since it does not yet constitute more than a tenth part of the population of India. There are a hundred millions of Indians to ten millions of Tartars. The two nations have never intermixed. None but Indians are farmers and artificers. They alone live in the country, and cary on the manufactures. The Mohammedanss are to be found in the capital, at court, in great cities, in camps and armies,,IT appears, that at that period when the Moguls en tered Hindostan, they found no private property. All the lands belonged to the Indian princes; and it may easily be imagined that ravage conquerors sunk in ignorance and avarice, did not readily this abuse, which is the utmost stretch of arbitrary power. That portion of the lands o: the empire which the new sovereigns call their own, wa! divided into large governments, which were called subah sips. The subahs, who were entrusted with the civil ant military government, were also appointed to receive ths revenues. This they committed to the care of the nabobs whom they established throughout their fubahfhips; am,thef
there again trusted this business to private farmers, whose B' °0 K,IV. immediate business it was to cultivate the lands; Ar the beginning of their year, which is in June, the nabob's officers agreed with the farmers for the price of a lease. They drew up a deed, calledjamabandi, which was deposited in the chancery of the province; after which the farmers went, each in his own district, to look for husbandmen, and advanced them considerable sums to enable them to Cow the ground. After harvest, the farmers remitted the produce of their lease to the nabob's officers. The nabob delivered it to the subah, and the subah poured it into the emperor's treasures. The leases were commonly for half the produce of the land; the other half went to pay the charges of culture, to enrich the farmers and to feed the labourers; In this system were comprised, not only grain, which is the principal crop, but all other productions of the earth. Betel, salt, tobacco, were all farmed in the same manner. THERE were also some custom-houses, and rome duties upon the public markets; but no poll-tax or any tax upon industry. It had not entered the heads of those arbitrary rulers, to demand any thing of men who had nothing left them. The weaver fitting at his loom, worked without solicitude, and freely disposed of the fruit of his labour. THIS liberty extended to every kind of moveables. They were truly the property of private persons, who were not accountable to any person for them. They could dispose of them in their life-time; and after their death, they devolved to their offspring. The houses of artificers, the town-houses with the little gardens belonging to them, were likewise accounted private property. They were he redstart and might be sold. IN the latter case, the buyer and feller appeared before the Cothoal. The conditions of the bargain were drawn up in writing, and the Cothoal affixed his feal to the deed, to make it authentic.,Ggz T.H
B O O K THE same formality was observed with regard to thd,IV. - - purchase of slaves; that is, of those unfortunate men, whey under the pressure of poverty, chose rather to be in bon cage to one man who allowed them a subsistence, than to live under that general slavery, in which they had no means of procuring the necessaries of life. They then sold themselves for a sum of money; and this was transacted in presence of the Cothoal, that the master's pro party might not be contested. THE Cothoal was a kind of notary public. There was one in every manufacture. It was before him that the few deeds were transacted, which the nature of such a go government would admit of. Another officer, called Jemadar decided all differences that arose between man and man, and his decisions were almost always definitive, un left' the cause was a very important one, or unless the aggrieved party was rich enough to pay for having it reverted at the nabob's court. The Jemadar was like wise intruded with the police. He had a power of inflicting flight punishments; but all capital offences were re served for the judgment of the nabob, as he alone had a right to pronounce sentence of death. SUCH a government, which was no better than a subordinate despotism-from the throne down to the meanest officer, could have no other faring than a coercive power constantly exerted. Accordingly, as soon as the rainy season was over, the monarch quitted his capital and re sided in his camp. The nabobs, the rajas, and the prin cipal officers were summoned to' attend him, and in this manner he proceeded through all the provinces successively in warlike pomp, which did not, however, exclude political craft. One great man was often employed to oppress another. The moll odious refinement of despotism is that of dividing its slave;. These divisions were fomented by informers, publicly kept by the prince, who were conti* i:a1ily spreading alarm and terror. These informers were,always
always chosen among persons of the first rank. Corrupt 0 o K,iv. tion is then at its height, when power can confer nobility on what is mean. EVERY year, the great Mogul set out on is progress, more as a conqueror than as a sovereign. He went to ad minister justice in the provinces, as if he was going to plunder them, and maintained his authority by a parade of military force, which makes arbitrary government a perpetual war. This manner of governing, though with legal forms, is very dangerous for the monarch. So long as the people feel their wrongs, only through the channel of those who are invested with his authority, they only murmur, upon the supposition that the sovereign is ignorant of them, and would not sussex any injustice if he knew it: but when the sovereign gives it a faction by his presence and by his own decisions, then all confidence is at an end: the deception vanishes: he was a God; now he is an ideot, or a wicked man. NEVERTHELESS the Mogul emperors have long enjoyed the superstitious idea the nation had conceived of their sacred character. That outward pomp which captivates the people more than justice, because men are more Struck with what dazzles their eyes than with what is beneficial to them; the richness and elegance of the prince's court; the grandeur that surrounded him in his travels; all this kept up in the minds of the people those prejudices of ser vile ignorance, which trembles before the idol it has raised. The various accounts that have been transmitted to us oi the luxury of the moltibrilliant courts in the world, are not to be compared to the ostentatious pomp of the Great Mogul when he appears before his fibres. The elephants formerly so dreadful in war, but which are become theses! maries in an army since the introduction of gunpowder; tht: immense animals that are unknown in our climates, give a:n Asiatic monarch an air of grandeur, of which lwe havre n reception. Tie pcn'le: fall prostrate before their i,;,jili.,C(; f 3 .
B O K sovereign, who fits exalted upon a throne of gold, all,-, glittering with precious stones, mounted on the haughty animal, who proceeds lowly, proud to present the master of a great empire to the refpea of so many slaves. Thus by dazzling the eyes of men, or inspiring them with ter. or, the Moguls preserved, and even enlarged their con. quells. Aurengzebe completed them, by making him felfmafter of the whole peninsula. All Hindostan, except ing a little flip of land along the coast of Malabar, sub mitted to that superstitious and barbarous tyrant, who had imbrued his hands in the blood of his father, his bro tiers, and his nephews. THIs execrable despot, had made the Mogul power an objet of generations but he supported it as long as he lived. At his death it sell, never to rise again. The un certainty as to the right of succession was the first cause of the disturbances that arose after his demise, at the be. ginning of the eighteenth century. Only one law was gene rally acknowledged, that which exalted that the scepter Should never go out of the family of Tamerlane; butchery emperor was at liberty to chue his fucccfibr, without being obliged to regard the degree of consanguinity. This indefinite right proved a source of discord. Young princes, whose birth entitled them to expect the crown, and who frequently were at the head of a province and an army, supported their claim fv;ord in hand, and paid little regard to the will of a monarch who was no more. This happened at the death of Aurengzebe. His rich spoils were stained with blood. In these convulsions of the body politic, the springs that restrained a militia of twelve hundred thou sand men were slackened. Every nabob aimed at being independent, at increasing the contributions railed upon the people, and lessening the tributes sent into the emperor treasure. No longer was any thing regulate by law, all yas carried on by caprice or disturbed by violence.,THE
.THE education of the young princes promised no re B C 0 K gnedy for all there evils. Left to the care of women till , the age of seven years, tutored afterwards in fine religious principles, they went and spent in theft indulgences of a seraglio those years of youth and activity which ought to be employed in forming the man, and intruding him in the knowledge of life. They took care to enervate them, that they might have nothing to fear from them. Conspiracies of children against their fathers were but too common; to prevent these, therefore, the children were deprived of every virtue, left they should he capable of a crime. Hence that shocking thought of an oriental poet, that fathers, whilst their sons are living, arefondleJ of their grandsons, because they love in them the enemies of their enemies. THE Moguls had retained nothing of those hardy man news they had brought from their mountains. Those who were advanced to high offices, or had acquired large for tunes, removed their habitations according to the seasons. In these more or less delightful retreats, they lived in houses built only of clay or earth, but the inside breathed all the Asiatic indulgence with all the pomp of the most cor rusted courts. Wherever men cannot raise a lasting for tune, nor transmit it to their posterity, they make haste to crowd all their enjoyments in the only moment they can call their own. All their pleasures and their very existence are passed away in the midst of perfumes and women. THE Mogul empire was in this state of weakness and effeminacy when it was attacked in 1738, by the famous Thomas Kouli-khan. The innumerable militias of India were dispersed without resistance before a hundred thousand Persians, as those very Persians had formerly fled before thirty thousand Greeks trained up by Alexander. Thomas entered triumphantly into Delhi, received the homage of the weak Mahomet, and finding the monarch still mores g 4 stupid:
B O 0 K stupid than his subject, he suffered him to live and ta,1¥., reign, united to Persia all the provinces that suited hieland returned loaded with an immense booty, the spoils of Hindostan Mahomet, despised by his conqueror, was still more so by his subjects. The great men would not serve under a vassal of the king of Perish. The nabobihips became independent, only paying a small tribute. In vain did the emperor declare that the nabobs hould still be remove able, each of them strove with all his power to make his dignity hereditary, and the sword decided every quarrel. The fubjeas were constantly a: war with their master, and were not considered as rebels. Whoever could afford to pay a body of troops, pretended to a fo;-'reignl:g . The only formality cbfcrvcd w-s to counterfeit the emperor's sign manual in a firman or warrant of investiture. It was brought to the usurper, who received it on his knees. This farce was necessary to impose upon the people, who had still respect enough remaining for the family of Ta. merlin, to choose tha-all authority should, at least, ap pear to proceed from it. THUS did disco-d, ambition and anarchy rend this find region oflnidoftan. Crimes could the more easily be con ceased, as it was the purloin of the grandees never to write but in ambiguous terns, and to employ none but obscure age., Sr.io;, thes di:b.ned when they found it necessary. ilurur and poison became coition crimes, which were busied in the dark recedes of those impenetrable palaces, full of Satellites, ever ready to perpetrate the blackest a on the least lgnal from their master. T:;E foreign troops that were called in by the contend ing parties, comi,l-lccd the miseries of this unhappy country I hey carried off all the riches of the land, or obliged .ie ::'. .lLs to bury them under g-ound; io that the tread i'.re grinned for so many ages gradually disappeared. A-eeral dejection cnfu;-d. 'T!;e grounds lay fallow, antd,the
the manufactures flood sill. The people would no longer B 0 o K work for foreign plunderers, or domestic oppressors. Want and famine were soon felt. These calamities, which for ten years had infested the provinces of the empire, be, gan to visit the coals of Coromandel. The wise Nizam Al-luck, Subah of the Dean, was now no more. Hi$ prudence and talents had kept that part of India which he commanded in a flourishing state. The European mer chants were apprehensive that their trade might fail when it had lost that support. They saw no resource against that danger, but to have a territory of their own, large enough to contain a number of manufactures sufficient to make up their lading. DUPLEIX was the first who considered this as a practicable scheme. The war had brought many troops to Pon cherry, with which he hoped by rapid conquers, to procure greater advantages than the rival nations had ob gained by a steady conduct, and mature deliberation. HE had long studied the character of the Moguls, their intrigues, their political interests. He had acquired such knowledge of these matters, as might have been fur prizing even in a man brought up at the court of Delhi. These informations deeply combined, had convinced him that it would be in his power to attain a principal influence in the affairs of Hindostan, possibly, to manage them as he pleased. His daring spirit, which prompted him to attempt more than he was able to perform, gave additional strength to his reflections. Nothing terrified him in the great part lie proposed to a t at the distance of fix tlhoillaiid leagues from his native country. In vain did his friends represent to him the dangers attending such an undertaking; lie considered nothing but the glorious advantage of sei using to l'ianlce a new dominion in the heart ot Aha ; t) enable her by the revenues .n;iexed to it, to !.i.-iiy the !argues 'f ti:'dIc :rid the expences of fivc- t -; ny; al)nl Even to free her from the tribute which our luxury *-
B O 0 K luxury pays to the industry of the Indians, by procuring,IV. ' rich and numerous cargoes, which should not be bought with any exports of money, but from the overflowing of the new revenues. Full of this great project, Dupleix eagerly seized the first opportunity that offered to put it in execution, and soon took upon him to dispose of the fubahihip of the Dean and the nabobfhip of the Car nati, in favour of two men who were ready to give up any thing he should require. THE fubahfhip of the Dean is a vice-royalty, made up of several provinces, which were formerly so many inde pendent states. It extends from Cape Comorin to the Ganges. The subah has the inspection of all the Indian princes and all the Mogul governors within his jurisdiction and in his hands are deposited the contributions that are destined to fill the public treasure. He can com p1l his subalterns to attend him in all military expeditions he may think proper to make into the countries under his dominion, but he must not march them into a foreign territory, without an express order from the emperor the fubahlhip of the Dean becoming vacant in 174g, Dupleix, after a series cf events and revolutions, in which she corruption of the Moguls, the weakness of the In diana, and the boldness of the French, were alike con epicurus, disposed of it towards the beginning of the year zi i, in favour of Salabatzing, a son of the late viceroy. THIS success secured great advantage sto the French settlements along the coast of Coromandel; but Pondicherry was a place of such importance, that our people thought it deserved a particular attention. This town, which is situated in the Carnatic, has such constant and immediate connections with the nabob of that rich difiric, that it was thought advisable to procure the government of the pre once to a man whose affection and submission might be defended on. The choice sell upon Chnndafach, a kinsman of the ! e nabob, well known for his intrigues,,his
his misfortunes, his warlike exploits and his steadiness of B 0 O K,Iv. temper-,v In return for their services, the French made him give up an immense territory. At the head of their acquisitions was the island of Seringham, formed by the two branches of the Caveri. This long and fertile island de rives its name and its consequence from a Pagoda, which is fortified, as most great buildings are, which are devoted to public worship. The temple is surrounded with sevens Square inclosures, at the distance of three hundred and fifty feet from each other, and formed by pretty high walls, which are proportionably thick. The altar stands in the center. A single monument like this, *ithits fortifications and the mysteries and riches it contains, is more likely to enforce and perpetuate a religion than a multi felicity of temples and priests dispersed in different towns, with their sacrifices, ceremonies, prayers and discourses, which by their number, their frequent repetition, and their being performed in public, are apt to tire the people; excite the contempt of enlightened reason; occasion dan serous profanations, or are slighted and neglected, which the priests dread more than sacrilege itself. The priests of India, as wise as those of Egypt, sussex no stranger to penetrate into the Pagoda of Seringham. Amidst the fables with which the history of this temple is wrapped up, probably, some acute philosopher might, if he was admitted into it, trace from the emblems, the form and construction of the edifice, and the superstitious practices and traditions peculiar to that sacred inclosure, many sources of instruction and an infight into the history of the remotest ages. Pilgrims resort thither from all parts of Hindostan, to ob tain absolution of their fins, and always bring an offering proportionable to their circumstances. These gifts were still so considerable at the beginning of the present century as to maintain forty thousand men in a life of sloth ind idleness. These Bramins, though under the restraints
B 0 O K subordination, were seldom known to quit their retire., m-nt for the more busy scenes of intrigue and politics.,INDEPENDENT of other advantages which the French enjoyed by the acquisition of Seringham, the situation gave them great influence over the neighbouring countries, and an absolute command over the kingdom of Tan jour, as they could at any time stop the waters that were wanted for the culture of their rice the territories of Karical and Pondicherry got an accession of ten leagues each, with fourscore manufactures. If these acquisitions were not so considerable as that of Seringham in point of influence over public affairs, they were much more so with regard to trade. BUT this was a trifling acquisition compared to the ter ritory they gained to the north, which comprehended the Condavir, Mafulipatam, the island of Divi, and the four provinces ofMuftafanagur, Slur, Rajamandry, and Chica kol. Such important concessions made the French misers of the coast for the space of fix hundred miles, and procured them the bert linen of ail Hindostan. It is true they were to enjoy the four provinces no longer than they should fur nil the subah with a stipulated number of troops, and maintain them at their own expence; but this agreement, which was only binding to their honesty, gave them little concern. Their ambition previously seized upon those treasures that had been heaped up in those vast regions for so many ages. THE ambition of the French, and their projects of con guest, went much further hill. They purposed to obtain a cession of the capital of the Portuguese colonies, and to seize upon the triangular face which lies between Man. lipatam, Goa and C:'pc Comorin. Ix tlc can titre, till they could realize these brilliant whiter thyr'y considered the personal honours that were i?.viflcd upon Deplei a aa presage of the greatest prof perry. It is well known that every foreign colony is more cr Ices odious to tent Us ; that it is good policy to en-,dc av; tr
devour to lessen that aversion, and that the surest way to B O O K,Iv. attain that end, is to conform as much as possible to the customs and manners of the country. This maxim, which is true in general, is more particularly so in countries where the people think but little, and is consequently so in India, THE French commander, who was fond of the Asiatic pomp, had no objection to this conformity. He was over toyed when he saw himself invested with the dignity of a nabob. That title put him upon a level with those whose protection he solicited before, and afforded him con miserable opportunities to pave the way for those great revolutions he meant to bring about, in order to promote the important interests he was intrusted with. He entertained still greater hopes on being appointed governor of all the Mogul possessions, throughout an extent little inferior toc the whole kingdom of France. All the revenues of those. rich provinces were to be deposited in his hands, and he was accountable to none but the Subah himself. THOUGH these agreements entered into by merchants could not be very pleasing to the court of Delhi, they were not much afraid of its resentment. The emperor, being in want of men and money, which the Subahs, the nabobs, the Rajas, his meanes delegates, took upon themselves to refuse him, found himself assaulted on all sides. THE Rajaputes, descended from those Indians whom Alexander fought, being driven out of their lands by the Moguls, took shelter in some mountains that are almost inaccessible. Continual disturbances put it out of their power to think of conquests; but in the intervals of their dissentions, they make inroads that cannot fail of harassing an empire already exhausted. THE Patans are still more formidable enemies. Driven by the Moguls from most of the thrones of Hindostan, they have taken refuge at the foot of mount Imaiis, which is a branch of the Caucasus. That situation has strangely altered their manners, and given them a fierceness of temper,which
B O 0 K which they had not in a milder climate. War is their chief employment. They serve alike under the banners of Indian or Mohammedan princes; but their obedience is not equal to their valour. Whatever crime they may have been guilty of, it is dangerous to punish them, for they are so vindictive, that they will murder when they are weak, and revolt when they are strong enough to attempt a bold stroke. Since the reigning power has lost its strength, the nation has shaken off the yoke. Not many years ago, their generals carried on their ravages as far as Delhi, and dreadfully plundered that capital. To the north of Hindostan is a nation, but lately known, which is the more formidable for being a new enemy. This people, distinguished bathe name of Scheiks, have found means to free themselves from the chains of despotism and superstition, though surrounded by nations of slaves. They are said to be followers of a philosopher of the Tiber, who inspired them with some notions of liberty, and taught them Theism without any mixture of superstition. They first appeared in the beginning of the present century; but were then considered rather as a fe than as a nation. during the calamities of the Mogul empire, their number increased considerably by apostates of all religions who joined with them, and fought (helter among them from the oppressions and fury of their tyrants. To be admitted of that society, nothing more is required than to swear implacable hatred against monarchy. It is asserted, that they have a temple with an altar, on which stands their rode of laws, and next to it a sceptre and a dagger. Four old men are elected, who occasionally consult the law, which is the only supreme power this republic obeys. The Scheiks actually possess the whole province of Punjab, the greatest part of the Mountain and the Sinai, both banks of the Indus, from Cassimere to Tanta, and all the country to yards Delhi, from Labor to Serpent: they can raise an army of sixty thousand good cavalry.,B u
.BUT of all the enemies of the Mogul, none are, per B O 0 K,iv. laps, so dangerous as the Marattas. This nation, of u . late so famous, so far as the obscurity of their origin and history will allow us to conjecture, possessed several pro vices of Hindostan, whence they were driven by the fear or the arms of the Moguls. They fled into the mountains which extend from Surat to Goa, and there formed several tribes, which in process of time united into one state, of which Catarrh was the capital. MOST of them carried vice and licentiousness to all the excesses which might be expected from an ignorant people, who have caRt off the yoke of prejudices, without substituting wholesome laws and found learning in their stead. Tired of laudable and peaceful labours, they thought of nothing but rapine. Yet this was confined to the plunder ing of a few villages, and robbing of some caravans, till the coast of Coromandel, being threatened by Aurengzebe, made them sensible of their strength, by imploring their assistance. Than it was that they were seen coming out of their hiding places in the rocks, riding on small ugly horses, but stout and accustomed to hard fare, to difficult roads and to excessive fatigue. The whole accoutrement of a Marattas horseman consisted of a turban, a girdle, and a cloak. His provisions were a little bag of rice and a leather bottle full of water. His only weapon was an ex excellent fabre. NOTwITHSTAxNDIN the assistance of these barbarians, the Indian princes were forced to bend to the yoke of Aurengzebe; but the conqueror, weary of contending with irregular troops, which were continually ravaging the newly reduced provinces, determined to conclude a treaty that would have been dishonourable had it not been dilated by necessity, which is stronger than prejudices oaths and laws. He ceded for ever to the Ma, rattan the fourth part of the revenues of the Dean, a,fubahfiip,
B O O K fubahlhip, formed out of all his usurpations in the pe. t. -. .j ninfula.,THis kind of tribute was regularly paid as long as Aurengzebe lived. After his death, it was granted or refused according to circumstances. The levying of it brought the Marattas in arms to the remotest parts of their mountains. Their boldness increased during the anarchy of Hindostan. They have made the empire tremble; they have deposed monarchs; they have extended their frontiers; they have granted their protection to rajas and nabobs who strove to be independent, and their influence has been unbounded. WHILST the court of Delhi was with difficulty contend ing with so many enemies, all conspiring to effect its ruin, M. de Buffy, who with a small corps of French troops and an army of Indians, had conduced Salabatzing to Aureus gabad his capital, laboured to establish him on the throne where he had placed him. The imbecility of the prince, the conspiracies which it occasioned, the firmans or privileges which had been granted to rivals, and other impediments obstructed but could not overturn his projects. By his means the prince reigned more peaceably under the protection of the French than could have been expected, considering the circumstances of this situation, and he pre served him in an absolute independence on the head of the empire, CHtXDASAEB, appointed nabob of the Carnatic, was not in so happy a situation. The English, ever in op position to the French, had stirred him up a rival, named Mohammed-Ali-Khan. The names of those two princes served as a pretence for carrying on a brisk war between the two nations: they fought for glory, for wealth, to serve the passions of their respective commanders, Dupleix and Saunders. Victory declared alternately for both armies. Success would not have been so fluctuating, had the governor of Madrasss had more troops, or the governor of Pondiche-rv better oi hers. It was difficult to conjecture
tare which of these two men, who were both of the same B o o K inflexible temper, would in the end get the better; but . it was very certain that neither would submit, whilst he had a soldier or a rupee left. Nor was it likely that either of them would soon be reduced to this extremity notwithstanding their amazing efforts, because they both found such resources in their hatred and their genius, as even the molt able men could not have any conception of. It was evident that the disturbances in the Carnatic would not be at an end, unless peace was first fettled in Europe and it was to be feared that the flame which had been confined to India for fix years might spread further. The ministers qs France and England obviated this danger, by enjoining the two companies to fix certain terms of agreement. They made a conditional treaty, which began suspending all hostilities at the commencement of the year 1755, and was to end by establishing between them a perfect equality of territory, of strength and of trade, on the coasts of Coromandel and Orixa. This stipulation had not yet received the fashion of the courts of London and Versailles, when greater interests kindled a fresh war between the two nations. THE news of this great contention, which began in Warnbe-,tween the North America, and spread all over the world, reached the English and East Indies at a time when the English were engaged in a Fre"nch.,The French very troublesome war with the Subah of Bengal. Had the lowell their French been then in the same state they were some years "l ts before, they would have united their interests with those of the natives. From narrow views and ill-judged interests they were desirous of entering into a formal con mention to secure the neutrality which had subsisted on the banks of the Ganges, during the last disturbances. Their rival amused them with the hopes of fettling this regulation, so long as they wanted to keep them in a state of inaction. But as loon as their successes had enabled them to make their own terms, they attacked Chandernagore. The taking of this place was followed by VoL. I. H h1 the
B 0 0 K the ruin of all the factories dependent upon it, and.put the,. EnglisH in a condition to fend.men,,money, provisions, aind,l-ips to the coast of Coromandel, where the French were just arrived with considerable land and fea-forces.,THESE forces, defined to protea the settlements of their own nation and destroy those of the enemy .were more than sufficient to answer boththhofe purposes. The only point was to make a proper use of them; but they set out wrong, as will plainly appear from the following observations. BEFORE the commencement of the war, the company possessed on the coasts of Coromandel and'Orixa, Mafu- lipatam with five provinces: a large space round.Pondi- cherry which had long had but a flip of sand; a. domain nearly as large in the neighbourhood of Karical; and lastly the island of Seringham. The-possessions made four va-st trans of country,. too far distant to support each' other. They bore the marks of thewild any and extravagant imagination of Dupleix, who had made these acquisitions. THE error of this policy might have been corrected. Dupleix, who made amends for his defects by his great qualities, had brought matters to that pitch that he was offered the perpetual governments the Carnatic. It was the most flourishing province in all the Dogs empire. By singular and fortunate circumstances, it had been governed successively by three nabobs of the same family, who had been equally attentive to culture and industry, General felicity had been the fruit of this mild and generous be saviour, and the public revenues had increased to twelve millions a. A sixth part would have been given to Sala bating, and the rest would have been for the company. IF the ministry and the direction, whb. alternately supported and neglected their power in India, had but been capable of a firm and fettled resolution, they might have sent orders to their agent to give up all the remote ron quests, and to keep to that important settlement. It watt,* 5C;c 1 p.'one,p.one
a2nre sufficient id give the French a firms efablih'met, a B O0. K,IV~ clofe',atd contiguous state, a prodigious' insanity of mer chastise, provisions for their fortified towns, and revenues capable of maintaining a bodl/of troops, which would have put therein a condition to defy the jealousy of their neighbours, and the hatred of their eueiiiei. Unfortunately for thei, the court of Versailles ordered that the Carnatic flout be refused, ;id affairs remained as they vere'before that proposal. T. E situation was critical. Diipleix was, perhaps, the odlil' ian vigo could support himself in it, or id' his stead, the vinous' officer vhb had had the greatest share of his' confidence, and' wa best acquainted with his schemes. The contrary opinion prevailed. Dupleix had been re called. The' genital, who was' appointed to c6ndii& the radiant war, imagined he must demolish a torture which' ought only to have been propped Up ii' tihfe troublesome' tines; a'hdhe loudly proclaimed his intentions, and thereby added to the imprudence of his relations. Tusks man,' where ungovernable temper could ievie adapt itself to circumstances, had received from nature no qualities that fitted' iii for cbiaiind. He' was go versed by a gloomy, impetuous' and irregular imagination so that there was a perpetual co tra'ft between this conversation and his project; and between' his ac tors and his proceedings. Passionate, suspicious; jealous, and positive to'excefs, he created' ati universal diffidence aid dejection, and excited animosities never to be sup pressed. His military operations, his civil government,' his political combinations, all bore evident marks' of the confusion of his ideas. THE evacuation of the island of Seringham was the principal cause of the disasters that at'teiiied the war with Tanjour. Mhafilipatam and the northern provinces were lost, from' having given up the alliance of Salabat- ztng. The lever powers of the Carnatic, who no,H'h z longer
B 0 K longer repeated the French for tho fake of their old friend the Subah of the Dean, completed the general rus, by - espousing other interests.,dw the other hand, the French squadron, though fu pcnor to the English, with which it had engaged three several times, without gaining any advantage over it,, at Haft was obliged to leave it matter of the seas, by which tie lots of India was decided. Pondicherry, after struggling with all the horrors of famine, was forced to surrender on the xSth of January. 1761. Lallyhadt the day before, corrected a plan of capitulation drawn up by the council; he had named deputies to carry it to the enemy's camp; and by a contradiction that was characteristic of the man, he gave the deputies a letter for the Englidhgeneral, in which he told him, he would have no, iapituYletin, because the English were, that kind of prflc tbqt they would net adhere to it. IN taking possession of the place, the conqueror caused not only the troops that had defended it, but all the Frenchman the company's service, to be chipped off for. Europe; and not satisfied even with that revenge, they de. strayed Pondicherry, and made that noblecityaheap fruits. Those of the inhabitants who were sent over to France, case thither enraged at having lost their fortunes and seen their houses pulled down as they drey off from, the hore. They filled Paris with their clamours; they de voted their governor to the indignation of the public; they informed again him as the author of all their miseries and the sole cause of the loss of a flourishing colony Tally was taken up, and tried by the parliament. He had been ac-used of high treason and extortion; of the first he was acquitted, and-the second was, never proved; vet Lalljywas condemned to lose his head.:,LET us ask, in the name of humanity, what his crime was that it should be punishable by law? The awful swords ofjulfice was not put into. the hands of the gma filtrate to gratify private resentment,' or even to followeth
ihee-motionsr of public indignation. The law alone B 0 0 K,Ivy siiftpoint out its own violins;' and if the clamours of . . a blind and incensed multitude could sway with the judges to pronounce a capital fentence,'the innocent might fur ser for the guilty, and there would be no safety for the citizen. In this point of view let us examine the sentence, Ir declares that Tally stands convinced of having beqrayre the interests of the king, of thrJfate,, and of the India company: What is'meiant by betraying of interests ? What law is there that makes it death to be guilty of this vague and in definite crirei ? No such law either does or can eixR, The disgrace of the prince, the contempt of the nation, public infamy, there are the proper punishments for the shan, who, from Incapacity or folly, has not served his country as he ought' but death, and that too upon a scaffold, is destined for crimes of a different nature. THa sentence further declares that Tally stands con vfced of vexations; exactions, and abtfi of authority. Nq doubt he was guilty of these in numberless instances. He niade'ufe of violent weans to procure pecuniary aids; but this money was put into the public treasure. le vexed and oppressed the citizens; but he never attempted to take away their lives, or to injure their honour. He ereaed gibbets in the market-place, but caused no one to be executed upon them. Is reality he was a madman of a dark and dangerous cast; an odious and despicable man; a man totally inca able of command. But he was neither guilty of public extortions, nor treason; and to use the expression of a phi lofopher, whose virtues do honour to humanity, evrj one had ti right to kill Tally except the executioner. The misfortunes that beset the French in Asia had been autres o,the misr- foreseen by all considerate men, who reflected op bhe cor town of the eruption of the nation. Their morals had degenerated Frtcn- chiefly in: the voluptuous climate of the Indies. The wars which Dupleix had carried on in the inland parts had laid the foundation of many fortunes. They were increased Hh and
B o 0 K and multiplied by the gifts which Saliabai4pg davidson those who conduced third implant ito his iapitl, - aid fettled him on the throne. Th opSers ,who la nest shared the dangers, the glory .an the benefits of-the brilliant expeditions, fp.ugt to comfort 9 themselves under their misfortune, by reducing she spahis to his the . aup- ,ber they were allowed, and applying their pay .tg fear own benefit whic] the could easily do, a. the money went through their hands. The agents for trade, who had not these resources, accounted to .the company but for a very finally part of the profits made upon .the European goods they sold, though they ought to ave been all their own, and sold them those of India at a very high pFrieVhich they ought to have had at prime cost. Those who were in. trusted with the administration of some possessions, fgarpfd it themselves under Indian names, or let it for a tribe, upon receiving a handsome gratuity; they even frequently kept back the whole income of such estates, under pre hence of some imaginary robbery or devastation, which had made it impossible to recover it. All undertakings, of what nature soever, were clandestinely agreed upon: they were the prey of the persons employed in them, .wh had found means to make themselves formidable, or of such as were most in favour, or richest. The solemn abuse that pre. wails in India, of giving and receiving presents on th conclusion of every treaty, had multiplied these transactions without necessity. The navigators who landed iR those parts, dazzled with the fortunes which they saw increased fourfold from one voyage to another, no longer regarded their ships. but as they were a vehicle to waft them to traffic and wealth. Corruption was carried to its greatest height by people of rank, who had been disarmed and ruined at home; but who, being encouraged by what they saw, and impelled by the reports that were brought,to them, resolved to go themes-es into Aia, in hopes of rqtriie-ihg their shattered fortunes, or of been able to continue their irregularities with impunity. The perish conduct of thei Directors
E8iPilors hate 'It 'necessary 'for tenth to wink at ail there 'B 0 'iK idt'rerdrs. They were accused of atenhdigir to nothing in , tfieiirtice but the credit, thetnoney and the'pod er it gave' item.' They were accused 'of giving the most important pours so their 'own 'relations, hen of no morals, application or capacity. They were accused of multiplying the number of factors without 'necetlty and without bounds to fecuir friendship the'city and at-court. Lastly, they were accrued of furnishing theriielies with what would have been bought cheaper'and 'Better in other places. Whether-she government iia'hot'Xnow 6f these excesses, or-had not resolution 'enoigh'to pit 'a Bop 'to them, they were, by their blindness or their weakness, in Tonne measure accomplices in the ruin of the affairs of the nation in India. They hight even 'without injultcih be charged with being the principal cause of them, defending such improper per sons to manage and defend an important colony, which had no less to fear from its own corruption than from the,t'glilh fleets and armies. THEi disasters of the company abroad, were still aggravates taken Sated by their i'tuatiori at hone. It was immediately in Fnlceto thought advisable to lay a fair account of matters before affairs in the proprietors. This discovery alarmed them exceedingly, India Id gave rise to a hundred different schemes, all equally absurd. They hastily paired from one to another, but were tbo full of uncertainty and diffidence to adopt any. The deliberations were carried on with toe much asperity, a id precious moments were wasted in upbraiding and :invectives. No one could foresee where these commotions-"duld end, when a young merchant of quick parts, and a clear head arose. They listened to him; when the storm immediately subsided, and fresh hopes began to dawn, All were unanimous in adopting his opinion. The com panis which the enemies to ll exclusive privileges willed 'to see abolished, flood its ground ; but, it was put upon a better footing; a circumstance which was absolutely ne, ceiffal .,H h AMONGST
B 0 0 K Amongst the causes which had involved the company,Iv.,a in the diftre~ they were in, there was one which had long been looked upon as the force of all the rest; which was the dependence, or rather the slavery, in which the go government had kept that great body for near half a century palt. EVER since the year 1723, the court enjoyed the power of chusing the directors. In 1730, a commissary from the king was introduced into the administration of the com any. This put an end to all freedom of debate in their deliberations; there was no longer any con section between the administrators and the proprietors; no immediate intercourse between the administrators and government. All was directed by the influence and according to the views of the courtier. Secrecy, that dangerous veil of an arbitrary administration, coi concealed all their operations; and it was but in 1744, that the proprietors were called together. They were em powered to name syndics, and to call a generaltmeeting once a year; but they were not the better informed of their affairs, nor more at liberty to dire them. The power of chusing the directors was still vested in the crown, and instead of one commissary, the king chose to have two. THIS gave birth to two parties. Each commissary had his own scheme, his own favourites, and strove to carry his point. Hence arose divisions, intrigues, informations and animosities, which had their center at Paris, but spread as far as India, and there broke out in a manner so fatal to the nation. THE ministry, Shocked at the fight of so many abuses, and weary of those endless contests, fought for a remedy. It was imagined they had hit upon one, by appointing a third commissary. This expedient only served to increase the mischief. Despotism had reigned when there was but one; division when there were too; but from the mo ment there were three, all was anarchy and confusion. They reduced them to two, and endeavoured to make them,agree
agree as well as they could;. and even in 1764 there was B 0OO 1K but one, when the proprietors desired that the company ' might be reinstated in its original constitution, by restoring its freedom. THEY ventured to tell the government, they might-ime pute the disasters and errors of the company to themselves, as the proprietors had not been concerned in the manage ment of their affairs: that they could never be carried on most advantageously both for them and for the state, till this could be done with freedom, and till an immediate inter course was established between the proprietors and administrators and between the administrators and the mi nifry. That whenever there was an intermediate person, the orders given on one side, and the reports made on the other, would necessarily, in passing through his hands, take a injure of his own private views and personal will; so that he would always be in fa the true and sole ad administrator of the company. That such an administrator, often destitute of interest, or knowledge of business, would always be ready to sac ifice the welfare and true interest of trade, to the transient shew of his administration, and to the favour of policemen. That on the contrary, every thing might be expected from a free administration chosen by the proprietors, along under their inspection, and in concert with them, and subject to no fort of restraint. THE government was sensible of the truth of these reasons They secured the freedom of the company by a solemn edit; and the same gentleman, who by his genius had just given it a new existence, drew up a plan of temporary statutes, for a new form of administration. THE intention of there statutes was, that the com any might no longer be ruled by men, who often were not worthy to be its factors: that the government might no further interfere than to protca it: that it might be alike preserved from that slavery under which it had Tb long groaned, and from that spirit of mystery which had,perpetuated
B 0 O-K perpetuated its corruption that there would 'bea'co-.,- stat intercourse between the manages and the proprietors: that Paris, deprived of the advantage enjoy by the capitals of other commercial nations, of being sea pbt, might acquire a knowledge of trade in free and pe~eabt-assemblies: that the citizen night at lass form just notions of that powerful tie'that'links all nations 'to. gather, and by informing himself of the sources public prosperity, learn to refpea the merchant whore operations contribute to it, and to despise the profetfioristhat are destructive of it. THaEss wise regulations were attended with happier con sequences than could possibly be'expealed. A great activity was observed on al sides. During the five years that the new administration lasted, the tales produced annually g1,ooo,ooo a. They had not been so considerable-even in those times which had been looked upon as the rmolt prosperous; for, from 1726 to 1756 inclusively, they hid amounted to no more than 437,376,284 livres b, which mates upon an average, in peace and war, r4,ilo,91z livres c a year. IT must be confessed, that since the year 1764, the pro fits had nbt been what they were before. The difference between the purchase and the sale, which had been at least cent. per cent. was reduced to about seventy per cent. This diminution of profit was owing to the want of stock, to the ruin of French credit in India, and to the exorbitant power of the victorious nation that had lately subdued thoSe distant regions. The agents for the company were reduced to procure money and goods upon the hardest terms. They drew both from the English merchants who were endeavouring to bring over to Europe the immense fortunes they had amassed in Asia. WITH there impediments, and under these disagreeable circumstances, was the exclusive privilege of trading to the,787,35oL b x9,135,Zlz L 8s. 6d. 617,z641. 18s.,Ea!
.aft .In4ie e.xeciKed, who the government thought proper B o o IK o &.fp nrd pt. Let us now .examine what was then the situation of the company's aRB j7,64, the number of thames was 50,268. At Their cathay period the ministry, who, in 1746, 1747 and 1748, isffiie had given Au to the proprietors the produce of the Shares The trade mind bonds which were their property, relinquished in their d.alu is C, favour the shares and bonds themselves, to the number of fitted to,that of the 1A,835 together, to indemnify them for the expences they company. Chad incurred during the last war. These Shares having Staeo°f that,foiety at .ben cancelled, there remained but 38,432. the time of . Fear wat of the company obliged them to make a its day. call of4p livres a per fare. Upwards of 34,000 shares paid.the call. The 4,900 that did not, were reduced, by t;qe terms of the edit which empowered the company to Iakte it, to five eights of the value of those which had gai;. so that by this operation, the number was reduced ;o- 6,9zo whole shares and fix eighths. THE dividends on the tares of the French company as of all other companies, have varied according to circum faces. In 1722 it was 100 livres b. From 1723 to 1745 it was .150c. From 1746 to 1749 it was 70 d. From 1750 to 1758 it was 80e. From 1759 to 1763 it was 40o, and in 1764 it was but 20olivres g. This shews that the divi tend, and the value of the flock, which always kept pace. with it, was necessarily asserted by the hazards of trade, and the fluctuation of popular opinion. Hence that pro vicious rise and fall in the price of the shares, which sell in one year from two hundred b to one hundred pistoles ; then rose to 1800 livres k, and soon after sell to 700 . Yet in the midi of these revolutions, the flock of the company was much the same. But this is a' calculations. .os. b 41. 7. 6d. 6 L rs. 3d. 1. 3 s. d. 3. ros. f i 1. 53. a7s. 6d. h 1671. 1E:. N. B. Each petiole is reckoned at cs. gd. 8i1l. 15, ' 7SI. 1. 'cil. xzs. 6d.,u lhitll
B 0 0 X which the public never makes. It is determined by thee . circumstance of the present moment, and always trusts or,fears beyond the truth. TaE proprietors, who were exposed to see their fortunes reduced to half in one day, would no longer run the tissues of such a situation. In laying in a fresh stock to trade with, they desired to secure the remainder of their for tune in such a manner, as that the shares should at all times bear a fettled price, and an interest that could be depended on. The government fettled this matter by an edict issued out in August 1764. The XIIth article ex freshly says, that to secure to the proprietors a fettled in come independent of all future events of trade, a sufficient fund should be detached from that portion of the contract which was then free, to secure to every share a capital of coo livres 1 and an interest of go livres b, and that neither that interest nor that capital hould, in any case or for any cane whatsoever, be answerable for rich engagements as the company might enter into after the date of this edit. THE company therefore owed for 36,920 Shares and fix eighths, at the rate of 80 livres c per Share, an interest amounting to 2,953,660 livres d. They paid for their several contracts z,727,5o6 livres c, which made in all 5,681,166 livres f of perpetual annuities. The life annuities amounted to 3,074,899 livres E. The sum total of all these annual payments was then 8,756,065 livres h. How the company raised money to answer these several demands shall be the subject of our next inquiry. THAT great body, far too deeply concerned in Law's scheme, had advanced him go,ooo.ooo, of livres i. When the catastrophe happened, the government made over to them in payment the exclusive sale of tobacco, which,701. 31 . c. 31. os. 129,2zz2. 2 s. 6d. ' 9z,3'Si 75. 9d. 248,5511. 5s. 3J. 1;4,526!. i6s. d. · 353,-771. I6:. icd.,then
then brought in three millions a year; but they were left" B 1 qi L without a capital to trade upon. This kept them in a i . state of inaction till 1726, when the government came to their succour, The rapid progress they made astonished all nations, and they bid fair for surpassing the most flourishing companies. This opinion, which was the general one, emboldened the proprietors to complain that their dividends were not doubled and trebled. They thought, and so did the public, that the king's treasury was enriched with their spoils. The profound fecrecywith ' which every thing was carried on, greatly Strengthened there surmises. ,Tns breaking out of the war between France and England in 174+ dissolved the charm. The ministry, too much embarrassed in their own affairs to think of doing any thing fer the company,-,left it to Whist for itself. Then; indeed. every body was: surprized to see that Colossus ready - to fall, .,,iich had never yet met with any Shock, and whose greatest misfortune, had been the loss of two Ships of - a moderate value. The:company was undone, had not thei government in 17.47, declared itself their debtor in the firm of.r8o,ooo,ooo of livres b, and engaged to pay them the interest of that sum for ever, at five per cent. - This engagement, which was in lieu of the exclusive sale of tobacco, is so important a point in history, that it would not be sufficiently elucidated, if we did not take up the matter further back. THE use of tobacco, which was introduced into Europe after the discovery of America, made no very rapid pro griefs in France. The consumption was so small, that the: first ecaef, which began the first of December 1674, and ended the first of Oaober 168o, brought in but 5oo,ooo livres c to the government the two first years, and 60,000oo d the four last; though the right of Stamping pewter had,*,31,:25l. . 7.7,ccoL. Z1b,875l. 650,bt1.n,bten
B Or Kb ben joined to this'priviege: This farm was confounded-1,- with the general farms till r6g0, when ir silt reniaraied,united to them, ratrd'vwa ramsgate . It oo,obolivriesia year. In 1697, it became once more a separate farifi onh the same terms, till 70o9, when it was increased to xioo;doo livres b more, till 1715. It was then renewed for three years only. The'two sirs years-were-t6 bring in ',ioo,0o6 of livres c,.and the last 2oo,ooo d more. At that period, it-was increased to 4,020,00oo hires ' a' year; bist this lasted-only from the first of October 1718 to the first of June 172o. Tobacco then became a mercantile cotmriio- city ail over the kingdom, and continued so .till the' first of September 7lyz. During' this short interval, private people laid in-such a ftock,.that when it came toe farmed out again, it could be'dobe but at'a moderate price. 'This' lease-which was the eleventh,;wh for nine years t6 commence on the fit of 'September 172, to the stress of October 1730. Shearers were tugive' x,30o,o0o owes for tie firs thirteen months ; i;Sooob6 g for each of the' lat ix-years; z,56b0,a h 'for thi'third, and' 3,oo6,oooi for each of the laftfix'years. This' agriement'did not take place, becauftethe India company, to whom' the' govern ment owed g9,cob,ooo livres k, which had bee'idepibffted in the royal treasury in 1717, deriahd'ed the faim' of to banco, which had then been made over to' them' for ever, aid which, from particular events, they had leveret' en toyed. Their petition was found to be juR, and they obtained what they so warmly solicited. THEY managed' this farm themselves, from the first of' Oaober 1723, to the last day of September i730. The produce during this space was 50,o83,967 livres II fous deniers ; which made 7,154,85j21. os. 3d. m year; out of * 65,625L b 4-3751. 57,50oo. ,7501. · 175,875L 56,8751. ' 7S,75cl. 12,oooL 131,2501. k 3,937,5001. About 2,191,1731. 'Is. 7d. r Aborit 3 6 ;,; 41 6s.,this
this must be dentated yearly. 3,o42,9631. pigs. 6d. a for. the B °O K charges of preparing the land. THssa charges were so enormous,: that it was thought the bushman which grew every day more considerable, would be better in the hands of the farmers-general,, who 'would do it t less expence by means of the clerks they employed for other. purposes. The company accordingly leafed it for eight years. They engaged to pay 7,500,oo,. livres b for. each of the first four years, and 8,ooo, ooo for each of the four last. This Ease went on upon the same footing till the month of June 1747, and the king.pro- missed to.account with the company for the increase of the produce, as on as it should be known and ascertained. AT this period, the king. united the tobacco farm.to. his other:duties, creating and alienating, for the use of the company, an annuity of nine millions d for ever, upon a- capital 'of a .hundred and eighty, millions '. This large compensation was thoughts be due to therefor the old: debt of ninety millions f; for the. overplus of. the profit upon the tobacco farm, from 1738 to 1747; and to in dennis them for the expences of the negro trade, the losses they had sustained during the wart their giving up the exclusive privilege of the trade to St. Domingo, and the loss of the ton duty, which had been suspended ever since the year 1731. Yet this compensation has been. thought inadequate by some of the proprietors, who have found out that ever since the year 1758, upwards of 11,700,000 pound weight of tobacco have been annually sold in the kingdom-at three livres g a pound, though it hadbeen bought for twenty-seven livres h a hundred. THa nation is of a very different opinion. The mana. gers, who prevailed upon government to acknowledge so, large a debt, have been accused of sacrificing the interest about 133,19!. 125, 7d. - b 328,12sL z 350,o000o 393,750). 7,S75,0031 j3,937,5001. ' s. 7d. h 11. 3s. 7d. I,of
BO 0 K of the public to thatofaprirate society. Writer who in,IV.,our days should examine whether this accusation was well or ill grounded, would pafrforan idle man. Such a discussion would be altogether needless, since every circum stance of this translation has been made public. Twill be efficient to observe, that ii was with the nine millions a year improperly facnriced by the state, that the company was enabled to answer the demand of 8,756,065 livres b with which it was charged, so that the overplus that remained to them amounted to about 244,0oo livres c of net revenue. IT is true they had private simple contra debts to the amount of 74,50o,0oo livres , but they had in trade, or in debts to call in, 70,733,000 livres; a sum nearly sufficient to balance their accounts.,TaEIR only riches consisted therefore in moveable and unmoveable effect, to the amount of about twenty mil lions, and the prosper of the extinction of the life annuities which in time mustering in three millions a year. The actual value ofthis article might be reckoned equal to a-clear capital of thirty millions h Independent of there properties, the company enjoyed home very beneficial rights. The exclusive sale of coffee had been granted them; but as public utility required that an exception should be made in 1736, with regard to coffee imported from the American islands, they had, by way of compensation, a yearly sum of 50,000 livres i, which was always duly paid. Even the privilege for Mocha coffee was cancelled in 1767, the government having al lowed the importation of that of the Levant. The com any obtained no indemnification on this account. T- EYr had met with a worse disappointment the year before. In 1720 they had been invested with the sole right of transporting slaves to the American colonies. ' 39;,7501 33,o771. 6s. d. o r10,6751. ;329,5S93L 155s ' 3,94,5j31. 1s. 875,ccol. g 13l,;5z L sl,31:, Scl3 2,17 z . ics.,This
This system soon appeared to be erroneous, and it was B 0 o K,IV. agreed that all the merchants in the kingdom should be at liberty to carry on the slave trade, upon condition of adding a pistoles per head to the thirteen livres b granted out of the royal treasury. Supposing that 15,ooo negroes were disposed of every year in the French islands, this nIade a clear income of 345,o60 livres C for the company. This bounty, which was allowed them for a trade they were not concerned in, was taken off in 1767, and was made up to them by a more reasonable equivalent. AT the first formation of the Company they had ob gained a gratuity of 50 livres d upon every ton of goods they should export, and of 75 upon every ton they should import from abroad. The ministry, upon the sup pression of the bounty upon negroes, increased the gras tuityupon every ton exported to 75 livres, and upon every ton imported to gog. If we rate both at 6000 tons a year, we hall find a produce of above a million h for the Company, including the 5o,ooo livres they received upon the coffee whilst the income of the company remained entire, their expences were lessened. By the edict of 1764 the islands of France and Bourbon were become the property of the government, who engaged to fortify and defend them. By this arrangement the company was exonerated of two millions a year, without the least detriment to the exclusive trade they enjoyed in those two islands. WITH all these seemingly prosperous circumstances the debts of the company were daily increasing. This must inevitably happen, as their income, together with the profits of their trade, was not sufficient to defray the ex pence of carrying it on, and the charges annexed to the crown, which amounted together to eight mil-els. 9d. ,b r s. 4d. z c 15,0931. 5s, 2l. 3s.gd. 31. 5. 7d. ^ f 31. 55. 7d. g 31- 0os. 43,750L i z2,187. 1. o. k 87,5001. Vol. I. I i lions
B 0 0 K lions a year. They might even exceed this as by,their nature they were susceptible of endless increase, according to the political views of government; which is the sole judge of their importance and necesse ty. IN so unfortunate a situation, the company could not possibly support itself without the assistance of government. But for some time past the council of Lewis XV. had ap feared to be very indifferent about the existence of that great body. At last an arret of council was issued, bearing date the ijth of August 1769, by which the king fufpie ded the exclusive privilege of the India Company, and granted to all his fubjeas the liberty of navigating an trading beyond the Cape of Good Hope. However, in grange this unerpeaed freedom, the government thought proper to lay it under some restraint. The arret which opens this new track to private navigators, requires them to PR-9 vide themselves with pafipe.rts, which are to. be freely given by the administrators of the India Company. It obliges them to make their returns to Port F1Qriet, and no where else. 'It establishes a duty by way of insult on all goods imported from India; which, by a second arret of council issued on the sixth of September.,fol- lowing, was fixed at five per cent. on all goods coming frogs India and China, and at three per cent. upon all commodities of the growth of the islands of France and Bourbon. THE arret of the 3jth of August, by only suspending the privilege of the company,'feemed to leave to thepro- praetors the power of resuming it: but as they Saw no pro ability of ever being able to do this, they wisely, de termined to liquidate their concerns in such a manner as to secure their creditors, and the remains of their own fortunes. For this purpose they offered to give up to the king all the company's ships, thirty in number; all the ware-,35o,ooo Alehouses
houses and other buildings belonging to them at port B o o K Orient and in India; the property of their factories with the manufactures dependent on them; all naval and military stores; and lastly, eight hundred slaves which they had reserved in the islands. All these articles were va sued at thirty millions a by the proprietors, who at the same time demanded the payment of 16,500,000 livres b which were due to them by the government. THE king agreed to the proposal, but chore to lessen the purchase money: not that the effects were not of Rill greater value whilst they remained in the hands of the company; but being made over to the government, they brought an additional incumbrance upon it. So that instead of 46,5oo,ooo livres ' whi'I the proprietors demanded, the prince, to clear all accounts with them, created a per petal annuity for their benefit of i,zoo,ooo livres d, upon a capital of thirty millions e. The edict for that purpose was issued out in January 1770. THIS new contract the company mortgaged for twelve millions f which they borrowed upon life annuities at ten per cent. and by a lottery in February following. This money was borrowed to enable them to fulfil the engage ments they had entered into when they undertook the last expeditions; but it was insufficient: so that finding themselves utterly unable to raise more, the proprietors, at their meeting on the 7thjsApril 1770, made over their whole property to the king, except the capital that had been mortgaged to the hares. THE principal articles comprized in this cession, con sifted in the abolition of 4,200,000 livres in life annuities of that part of the contract of nine millions h which exceeded the capital of the Shares; of the hotel of Pa ris; of the India goods expected home in 1770 and,i,3tz,50ool. 72i,3751. ' :,0393751. d 525001. 1,31,50oo0 f 52,cooL g t83,7-ol. 11393,7501.,Ii 1771.
414 HISTORY OF SETTLEMENTS AND Traite B O FK 1771, supposed to be worth z6,ooo,ooo of livres a; and,. lastly, of three or four millions b of debts to be called,in, from debtors who were mostly solvent, in India, in the isles of France and Bourbon, and at San Domingo. The proprietors engaged at the same time to furnish the king with a sum of 14,76S,ooo livres c, to be raised by way of a call, which was fixed at 400 livres d per Share. The government, in accepting these several offers, engaged on their part to pay all the perpetual and life annuities which tile company was bound to pay ' all their other engagements, amounting to about forty-five millions e; all the pension and half-pays granted by the company, amounting to 8o,ooo livres (a-year; lastly, to stand to all the charges and risques attend a liquidation that must necessarily last some years. THE capital of each share, which by the edict of Augur r164, had been fixed at 1600 livres g, bearing an interest of So livres h, the king now raised to zoo livres i, bearing i-reft Iz5 Livres rea-year. The new interest was made iubjec to a deduction of a tenth, and it was agreed that this dednaion should be annually appropriated to the pay ing off of the shares by lot, on the footing of their capital of 20oo livres; fo-that the interest on the shares thus pad off, would increase the finking fund till the whole of the flares was finally paid off. THESE respective conduits are recorded in an arret of council, of the 8th of April, including a report of the deliberations held the day before in a general meeting of the proprietors, and confirmed by letters patent bearing date the 22d of the same month. In consequence of these agreements, the call has been paid, the drawing for the reimbursement of the shares, to the number of two hun died and twenty, has been made every year, and the fimr-,,tr37,y5-l. b 'About i;5,oool. upon an average. ' 646,0ol. 1 I s. I . 1,9r ,75Z,;L f 3,51ol. g-ol. h 31. Ic . 1 -l. 75. 6d. L j5. s. 4<d. 109 lo . s7. 6d.,I ple
pie contract debts of the company have been duly paid B 0 0 K when their time was elapsed. .FROM all there particulars, it is no easy matter to frame an idea of the actual mode of existence of the India com any, and of the legal slate of the trade they carried on. This company which at present has no property, no bus ness, no objet, cannot however be considered as being utterly destroyed, since the Proprietors have referred the joint stock that was mortgaged for their flares; and that they have a common chest, and deputies to superintend their interests. On the other hand, their charter has been suspended; but it is only suspended, and is not il eluded amongst the articles which the company has ceded to the king. The law by which it was granted is still in force; and the sips that are fitted out for the Indian seas, cannot fail without permission in the name of the company. So that the freedom which has been granted is but a precarious one, and if the proprietors should offer to resume their trade, with a sufficient stock to carry it on. they would have an undoubted right to do it, without any new law to impower them. But except this nominal right, which in fact is much the same as if it did not ex gift, as the proprietors arc not in a condition to exercise it,. all their other rights, properties and factories, are now in the hands of government. Let us take a cursory view of those Settlements, beginning by Malabar. BETWEEN the provinces of Canara and Calicut, lies P,-s,,, a district which extends eighteen leagues a!o:ig the coast, 1.a If 1'e and is at most seven or eight leagues broad. The country, on ir, r-.i which is very rugged, is covered with pepper and cocoa : M;llabl-. trees. It is divided into several lesser diltriis, in sub session to as many.hdian lords, who are all vassals to the house of Colaftry. The head of this Brains family is. ghvays to confine his whole attention to v. itt c',scrcr'; the worship of the gods. It would be beneath his dignity to too to profane matters, and the reins of governicrnt,I i 3 arc
B O O K are given to his nearest relation. The' country is divide div. into two provinces. In the largest, called the Irouvenate,,is the English factory of Tellichery, and the Dutch sac tory of Cananor. Those two nations share the pepper between them, but the English commonly carry off 1,5oo,ooo pound weight, and there seldom remains more that 5oo,ooo for the Dutch. THE second province, caled Carbonate, extends but five leagues along the coast. Here the Finch were called in by the natives in 172z, with a view to make use of them against the English; but an accommodation having taken place made their assistance needless, they were forced to re relinquish a post where they promised themselves some advantages Fired with resentment and ambition, they re turned in greater numbers in 17z2, and established them selves sword in hand on the modish of the river Made. Notwithstanding this aa of violence, they obtained of the prince who governed that distress, an exclusive right to the pepper trade. This favour was so great an advantage to them, that it gave rise to a colony of 6,000 In diana who cultivated 6,350 cocoa-trees, 3,967 area and 7,76 pepper-trees. Such was the states this settlement, when the English made themselves masters of it in 176o.,THE same spirit of-destruction that they had shewn in all their conquests, influenced them at Mahe. Their intention was to pull down the houses, and disperse the inhabitants. The sovereign of that country dissuaded them from their purpose. All was spared, except the for ratifications. When the French returned to their factory, they found every thing much in the same condition as they had left it. It is their interest to secure the ad vantages they enjoy, and it is no lew incumbent on them to endeavour to improve them. Made' is surrounded with hills, on which were erected five forts, which no longer exist. These works were by far too numerous, though some precautions are absolutely,necessary
nteeflfay. It his ot proper to be perpetually exposed to the B 00 K,IV. dpre-rdatibis of the Layers, who have formerly attempted to plitidet and destroy the colony, and who might pos. sibly have fill the fine intentions, in order to put them selves unde the protection of the English at Tellichery, which is but three leagues distant from Mac. BssIE£s the plots requisite for internal safety, it is highly proper to fortify the entrance of the river. Since the Marattas have got sea-ports of their own, they infest die sea about Malabar with their piracies. Those ban ditto even attempt to land, wherever they think there is Come booty to be got. Mahe would not be secure from their attacks, if there were money or goods to tempt them, unless they were well guarded. THE French nightmare themselves ample amends for any expences they slid incur, if they did but carry on their trade with spirit and skill. Their fairy is the belt situated for the pepper trade; and the country would as ford z,Soo,ooo pound weight of that commodity. What could not be consumed in Europe might be sold in China, on the Red Sea, and at Bengal. A pound of pepper would tend them in twelve fous a and they would sell it for twenty-five or thirty b. THIS advantage, considerable as it is, would be increased by the profits upon European goods which would be car cried over to Mais. Those who are best acquainted with that factory, are of opinion that it will be an easy matter to dispose of 400,000 weight of iron, zoo,ooo of lead, 25,000 of copper, zool firelock, zo,ooo weight of gun powder, 50 anchors or grappling, so bales of cloth, 50,00ooo ells of fail cloth, a good quantity of quicksilver, and about 200 casks of wine or brandy, for the French set ted in the colony, or for the English dirt the neighbour hood. These several articles together would fetch at,aAbout 6d. X ' About il. 45. on an average.,Ii 4 leaf
BO O0 K least 384,ooo livres , of which 153,600 b would be clear.,IV. « - ' gain, allowing the profit to be 40 per cent.' Another ad-advantage attending this circulation is, that there will al ways be a flock in the factory, which will enable them to purchase the productions of the country In the seasons of the year when they are cheapest. THE greatest obstacle to trade is the custom-house established in the colony. Half the duties belong to the sovereign of'that country, and this has always been a subjea of contention. The English of Tellichery, wh6 laboured under the same grievance, have found means to prevent all disputes about these duties, by paying a certain yearly sum as an equivalent. We might do the same, but we cannot expect that the prince would agree to it, un. less we previously pay him the sums he has lent, and no longer refuse him the tribute ftipu4ed for the benefit of living peaceably upon his territories. Matters cannot be so easily adjusted at Bengal. Present France has engaged by the treaty of 1763, to ere no fate of the fortifications and keep no troops in that rich and extend EP'ait five country. The English, who are sovereigns therewith never sussex us to deviate from what they have re quire. So that Chandernagore, which before the last war reckoned 60,ooo. fouls, and has now but 24,000, is and always will be entirely an open place. To this misfortune of a precarious situation, may be added injuries and hardships of every kind. Not satisfied with the possession of unlimited authority, the English have been guilty of the most scandalous enormities. They have insulted the French in their work-shops; decoyed their workmen, cut the linens off of the looms; insisted that the manufacturers should do no work but for them in the three best months of the year, and that their own lad hugs should be picked out and completed, before any,, ,, 7 ,, b 6,: thirsting
thing was removed out of the work-flslos. The scheme D O o K,IV. which the French and Dutch together had contrived of., raking an exact estimate of the number ps weavers, taking only half between them, and leaving the rest to the English, has been considered as an insult. That domi peering nation have gone so far as to declare that they would have their factors buy the goods in Chandernaggre; and our people have been forced to submit to this hard ship, or they would have been excluded from every market in Bengal. In a word, they have so much abused the unjust right of victory, that a philosopher might be tempted to with for the ruin of their liberty, were not the people a thousand times more oppressive and cruel under the go government of one man, than in the possessions of a govern ment tempered by the influence of many. As long as things remain upon the present footing in that opulent part of Asia, the French will meet with per petal hardships and mortifications, and therefore no solid and lasting advantage can accrue to trade. We should be rescued from this disgrace, if we could exchange Chancre nagore for Chattigan. CHATrTGAN is situated on the confines of Aracan. The Portuguese, who in the days of their prosperity, en devoured to get all the important posts in India into their own hands, made a considerable settlement at that place. The colonists shook off the yoke of their native country, when it became a part of the Spanish dominions,chufipg rather to turn pirates than to be slaves. They long'im- scaled theleighboiring coasts and seas with their depredations At last they were attacked by the Moguls, who raised a colony upon their ruins, powerful enough to pre vent any inroads which the people of Aracan and Pegu night be tempted to make into Bengal., This place then lank into oBscurity, till 1758, when the English arrived and settled tbhrc.,THa
B O O K rTw climate Ii healthy, the w~tes excellent, aid pro.,IV.,vfions plenty: the landing It easy, and the anchorage safe. The continent and the ifahd of Candida make a tolerable harbour. The rivers Barramputri and ftki, which are branches of the Ganges, or at least communicate with it, greatly facilitate commercial operations. tf Chattigan is further off of Patna, Caffimbazar, and'rfme cher markets, than the European colonies on the river Ugly, it is nearer Jogdia, Dacca, and all the manilfattires of the lower river. It is a matter of no consequence Whether ships of burden can or cannot enter the Ganges on that side, as the inland navigation is never carried on but with boats. Though the knowledge they had of there advantages had determined the English to seize upon Chattigan, we are apt to think they would have given it up at the last peace, to get rid of the French, and remove them from a place which lies too near them, and which long habit has endeared to them. We even apprehended that at Chatter gan, they would have defined from those irksome conditions they required at Chandernagore, which imprint a reproach upon the possesses, more detrimental than it is possible for mere speculators in commerce to conceive. Trade is a free profession. The sea, the voyages, the risque, and the vicissitudes fortune, all inspire a love of independence. This is the very foul and life of trade, which wrlien shackled droops and dies. THE present opportunity is perhaps a favourable one to think of the exchange we propose. The Fortifications which the English had begun to erect at Chatigan, hav ing been thrown down by repeated earthquakes, and they seem to have taken a dislike to the place. As to the French, this inconvenience, great as it is, would be pre female to that of living in a defenceless town. It is bet ter to strive against nature than against men, and to be exposed to the shocks of the earth than to the insults of rations. Fortunately forth French, though they are,reftraiced
restrained at Bengal) they meet with some amends, in B °o K,IV. enjoying a better situation on the coast of Coromandel. To the north of that very extensive coast, they possess Prefentfitu- Yanam, in the province of RajaHmandry. This factory, anclf:h'e which has no land belonging to it, and is situated nine on thecoai miles from the mouth of the river Interim, was formerly ones a very flourishing one. From mistaken motives it was neglected about the year 1748. It'*ould, however, afford goods to the value of 4 or 5oo,ooo livres ', as the cotton manufactures are very considerable in that neighbourhood, and the cottons remarkably fine and good. It has been found by experience to be a good market for disposing of European cloth. The trade of this place would be more lucrative, if they were not obliged to Share the profit with the English, who have a small settlement within two miles of the French. THE competition is much more detrimental to thejin- terest at Mafulipatam. The French, who formerly were masters of the whole town, but have nothing left now ex kept the lodge they had before. 749, cannot pretend to vie with the English, who make them pay duty for all their imports and exports, and enjoy besides all the favour in their own trade which sovereignty can command-this being the case, the French confine their dealings to the purchase of some fine handkerchiefs, and other calicoes to the value of 150,600 livres b. It is far otherwise at KarieaL That town, situated in the kingdom of Tanjour, on one of the branches of the Coleroon, which will bear hips of 15o tones burden, was ceded to the company in 1738, by a dethroned king, who was in want of protection. Hav ing been red before he had fulfilled his engagements, he retraced the gift he had made. A nabob attacked the place with his army, and in 1739 gave it up to the French who were in friendship with him. Soon after this the un grateful and perfidious prince was strangled by theintrigues,Abwut i9,-:c 1. on an average. b 6,56z t. i.,~4 °of
B 0 O X ofhis uncles; and his successor, who had inherited his-ene.,Iv. v its with his throne, being desirous of obtaining the-friendship of a powerful nation, confirmed them in their possession. The English took the place in 1760; and blew up the fortifications. It was afterwards restored to the French, who returned thither in 1765. Is its present state, Karical is an open place, which may. contain 15,0o inhabitants, moft':pf them employed in weaving ordinary handkerchiefs, and cottons for the wear of the natives. The territory belonging to it, which has been considerably increased by the concessions which the king of Tenour made in 1749, is nov once more what-it was at first, two leagues in length, and one league in the broadest part. It is covered with fifteen villages, of which only one deserves our notice; it is called Tirumales Rayenpatnam, and contains no less than 25,o00 fouls They weave and paint tolerably fine Persians, fit for Barras and the Philippine islands. The Coolies.and Mohammedanss have small vessels, with which they trade to Ceylon, and along the coal. FRANCE may draw annually from this settlement, twq hundred bales of cottons or handkerchiefs fit for Europe, and a large quantity of rice for the subsistence of her other colonies. ALL goods bought at K arica, Yanam and Mafulipatam; are carried to Pondicherry, our chief settlement in India. THIS town, which rose from such small beginnings, in time became a great, powerful and famous city. The streets, which are all strait, and most of them broad, were lined with two rows of trees, which kept them cool, even in the heat of the day. The mod remarkable lblic edifices are a mosque, two Pagodas, two churches and the governor's house, which is reckoned to be the most mag munificent building in the east. They had erected a small cita del in the year 1704, but it is of no use, since they have been allowed to build houifc all round it.' To supply the,loss
loIs of this defence, three sides of the town had been for B 00 K,IV. ratified with a rampart, a ditch, bastions, and a glacis which was unfinished in some places. The road was defended by some batteries judiciously placed the town, which was a full league in circumference, contained 70,ooo inhabitants, of which 4000 were Euro means, Esteem, or Topazes. There were at most 1o,ooo Mohammedanss; the rest were Indians, 15,coo of which were.chriftians, and the others of seventeen or eighteen different casts or tribes. Three village? dependent on the town, might contain lo,ooo fouls. SucH was the state of the colony, when the English made themselves masters of it in the beginning of the year 1761, utterly destroyed it, and turned out the-inhabitants. Others may, perhaps, examine whether the barbarous right of war could justify such enormities. Let us turn away our eyes from so many cruelties, committed by.a free, magnanimous, and enlightened nation, and only well upon the resolution France has taken to restore Pondicherry to its former splendor. Every thing concurs to justify the wisdom of this choice this town, like all others on the coast of Coromandel, has no harbour, but it has a much more commodious road. The (hips can anchor close to the shore, under the cannon of the fortifications. Its territory, which is three leagues long and one league broad, is nothing but barren sand by the sea side, but the greatest part is fit for the culture of rice, vegetables, and a root called chaya, which is used for dying, Two small rivers that cross the country, but are not navigable, afford excellent water for the same purpose, particularly for the blue dye. Three miles to the north-east of the town is a hill, which riles a hundred toises above the level of the sea, and is a guide to ships at the distance of seven or eight leagues, which is an inestimable advantage upon so flat a coast. At the top of this hill is a very large pool of water, that has been collecting,for
B O0 o forages, and after refreshing and fertilizing a spacious ter . ritory, flows down to water the grounds about Pondicherry.,Lastly, the colony is favourably situated for the reception of provisions and merchandises from the Carnatic, the kingdoms of Mysore, and Tanjour. Such were the importantreafonswhich determined France to rebuild Pondicherry. As soon as her agents appeared on the with of April 1765, the unfortunate Indians, who had been dispersed by the calamities of war, flocked thither in great numbers. By the beginning of the year 1770, there were 27,ooo who had rebuilt their ruined houses. They are all brought up in the notion that no man can be happy who does not die in the very place where he first saw the light. This prejudice, so pleasing to them, and which may be turned to good account, ivsll no doubt bring them all home again, as soon as there is room for them, and the town is inclosed. The weavers, the dyers, the painters, the merchants, those who have some property to preserve, only wait for this security to follow their inclination. Is their present state, the French stories in India are very expensive, and the returns from them inconsiderable. Unfortunately this is not compensated by the islands of France and Bourbon, which have not attained to that degree of prosperity we had reason to expect. PIrdenfirt- THE latter of thee sands was much extolled, but more tionoftihc speculation than industry was bestowed upon it, and the French in tbeifieof owners lost their time in conjectures concerning the use Franc. it might be put to.,SorM were inclined to make a fart of it, where all India goods should center. They were to be brought thither on Indian bottoms, and then shipped on board the French vessels, which were never to go any further. They found a double advantage in this scheme; first, in the les. fencing expences, as both the pay and the maintenance of Indian sailors is very trifling; and secondly, in the prefer-ovation
vaipon of the hips crews, which are often destroyed by too B o o K,·v. . long a voyage, and fill more frequently by the climate, . especially at Bengal and in Arabia. This system, which ought, perhaps, to have been adopted, was considered as impracticable, on account of the supposed necessity of exhibiting a formidable flag on the seas of Asia, to prevent or check the insults that are often committed in those parts. OTHERS were of opinion that the inhabitants of the isle of France should be allowed to trade to India, which they had never yet been suffered to do. The supporters of this system maintained, that the proposed freedom would prove an abundant source of wealth to the colony, and consequently to the mother country. They might be in the right, but the trials that have been made have not been successful; and without examining whether this innovation had been judiciously conduaedm.it was decided that the island should be entirely confined to agriculture. THIS new regulation occasioned fresh mistakes. Men were sent from Europe to the colony, who neither understood husbandry nor were accustomed to labour. The lands were distributed at a venture, and without distinguishing what was to be cleared from what did not want it. Money was advanced to the planters, not in proportion to their industry, but to the in terest they could make with administration. The com any, who got cent. per cent. upon the commodities the colony drew from Europe, and fifty per cent, upon those that were sent in from India, required that the produce of the county should be delivered into their warehouses at a very low price. The oppression of monopoly was ag granted by the tyranny of endless and needless services. To complete the misfortunes of the colony, the company, who had kept all the power in their own hands, broke the engagements they had entered into with their subject, or rather with their slaves.,LTUNDER
S o o K IX'SDER such a government, no improvements could be,Iv.,exp-cecd. Nothing was carried on with steadiness. Cot ton, indigo, sugar, ariosto, pepper, tea, cocoa; every thing was tried, but so carelessly that no advantage was procured from them. In pursuing chimerical projects the essential cultures were neglected. Though in the year 1;76 there were in the colony 1469 white people, besides the troops; 1587 Indians or free negroes; 11881 laves; their productions did not amount to more than 320,65( pounds weight of wheat, 47,430 pounds of rice, I,57C,o4o pounds of maize, 142,700 pounds of kidney beans,. 135,5oo pounds of oats. Those who had an op opportunity of seeing arid observing the agriculture of the Ife of France, found it little better than what they had seen amongst the savage Some good alterations have been made in the colony once it is in the hands of government. The culture of coffee has been introduced there, as it had long been at Bourbon. It thrives so well, that they do not despair of gathering fix cr seven millions weight in time, provided a wile administration will supply them with the means of improving this culture ; for without such helps, no colony can possibly prosper. To these hopes another has lately been joined. IT is well known that for these two hundred years, the Dutch have been enriching themselves by the sale of cloves and nutmeg. To secure to themselves the ex elusive trade of this article, they have put in irons or ut terry destroyed the nation that was in possession of those spices, and left the price of them hould fall even in their own hands, they have rooted up most of the trees, and frequently burnt the fruit of those they have preserved. This abominable'avidity, which has so often been mentioned with indignation by other nations, so exasperated Mr. Poivre, v.ho had travelled all over Asia as a naturalist and a phi lofopher, that he availed himself of the authority he was intrusted with in the Sic of France, and sent men into,the
the least frequented parts of the Moluccas, to search for B 0 0 K what avarice had hitherto with-held from the rest of the world. The labours of those intrepid and sagacious navigators in whom he confided, were crowned with success. ON the sith of June 1770, they brought to the Isle of France 400 nutmeg-trees; lo,ooo nutmegs, either grow ing or ready to grow; 70 clove trees, and a chest of cloves, some of which were growing, and already come up. THIS rich prize was distributed amongst the colonists, to try all the different foils, and every asper. Most of the young trees died, and the others are not likely to bear any fruit. But whatever may happen, the Isle of France must always be allowed to be the best gift of nature, for any nation desirous of trading to Asia. IT is situated in the African seas, but just at the entrance of the Indian ocean. As it lies a little out of the common track, its armaments can be carried on with the more fe crecy. They who will it was nearer our continent, do not consider that if it were so, it would be impossible to reach the coasts of Malabar and Coromandel in a month's time, and the most distant gulphs in two months at most, which is an inestimable advantage to a nation that has no sea-port in India. This island, though in the same latitude as the barren and scorching coasts of Africa, is temperate and healthful. The soil is irony, but tolerably ser tile. Experience has shewn that it will produce most of the necessaries and even of the luxuries of life. What ever may be wanting, they may get from Madagascar, which abounds with provisions, and from Bourbon, where the inhabitants have retained their simplicity of manners, and a taste for husbandry. What iron they may want, and cannot get from those two islands, they dig out of their own mines great BRITAIN fees with a jealous eye, that her rivals It behoves Should be poflfh.ed of a settlement which may prove the She coU of ruin of her flourishing trade with Asia. At the very first to fortify Vol. I. K k breaking the IlC of
B o o K breaking out of a war, her utmost efforts will certain be,Iv.,, aimed at a colony that threatens the source of her richest Franc and treasures. What a stroke for France, should the sussex Pomdichtr- , if it will herself to be stripped of it ! huc mOy YET this is by no means improbable, if we consider that,mrrea in the trade of Ia hitherto there has been no fettled plan for fortifying this &d sand; that the means have always been wanting, or misapplied; that from year to year, the ministry of Lewis XV. have waited for the dispatches of the administrators to come to a determination, just as one would wait for the return of a courier from the frontiers. Far from supposing that the besiegers would meet with an insurmountable defiance, it is to be feared they would carry their point by the force they have in India without any succours from Europe. IT is now time to speak freely. Whoever goes round the coasts of the Isle of France, mute be astonished to see it every where accessible for boats. Though it is surrounded with reefs, there are many bays where troops may be landed under the protection of the ship-guns. Is those parts of the Sand where ships must keep fur ther off, the sea is so calm and smooth, between the reef and the land, that boats may row in the night without the least danger. IF in some places between the reef and the land, the water is too shallow for the boats to come ashore, then the men can land with the water half way up their legs. The sea is so calm within the reef, that this may be done with the utmost safety. They are more secure of a retreat in case of resistance, and the boats are the safer whilst the operation is going forward. THIS is without exception the notion we are to frame of the ICe of France; for if we sometimes meet with a point where a boat cannot land, we are sure of finding an opening at twenty toises to the right or left. So that the enemy will never land sword in hand, but from ignorance
rance or presumption. As it is impossible to guard a coast B o o K that measures forty leagues, there will always be some de ; fenceless place fit for landing. DURING the last war, they'd ereAed batteries all round the island, which pointed directly to the sea; and could only play upon ships anchored at a distance, or under fail. Some abler engineers have found out that there batteries, erected at a great expence, only divided the forces, an swerved no purpose, would be as defenceless as they were useless, and could not stand the fire of ships, when the best fortifications are not proof against it. They are now forsaken, and nothing has been substituted in their stead. THE north-west harbour is the chief place of the island, and muff be the enemy's principal object in his plan for an attack. The nature of the ground will not admit of fortifying it so as to stand a siege. It should be secured from "a surprise, and then an intermediate spot should be fortified in the heart of the island, from whence, by means of communications properly disposed, the forces of the colony may be quickly dispatched wherever they might be wanted. WITH such an establishment, the enemy muff fight a hundred battles before he can conquer the island. He will not even compass it, if the roads leading from the center to the circumference, which muff be cut through the woods, are so artfully contrived as to facilitate the motions of the troops towards the circumference, and at the same time to obftrua those of the enemy towards the center. The nature of the country will admit of this: it is full of gullies which must be crossed, and of mountains which require many windings. It is an easy matter to seize the favourable spots. HoWEVER, there is so necessary and absolute a connection between the Ife of France and Pondicherry, that those two possessions are altogether dependent on each other; for, without the Sec of France, there would be no protects k z tion,
B O O K tion for the settlement in India; and without Pondicherry,,I , the Isle of France would be exposed to the invasion of the english from Asia as well as from Europe. THE Sie of France and Pondicherry, considered in their necessary connection, will be a security to each other. Pondicherry will protea the Isle of France, as being the rival of Madrasss, which the English must always cover with their land and sea forces; and on the other hand the Sd of France will always be ready to succour Pondicherry, or to at offensively, as circumstances Ihall require from these principles it appears how necessary it is to put Pondicherry immediately in a state of defence. Ever since the year 176+, private interests that clash with the interest of the nation, have made it a matter of doubt which was the best plan of fortification for this important place. Considerable sums have already been expend ed on this account, and all to no purpose, because they have been successively laid out upon contrary systems. It would be needless to dwell upon the mischiefs attending these eternal uncertainties. The French Widen the Isle of France and Pondicherry are once put bet'' ing a proper posture of defence, we may then think of ;-.-ly ei;2- bifr.ed in trade, which ceased to exist the moment it became free. ,d,;offj1 Indeed the expeditions to China have continued, those to opr,;.o the islands of France and Bourbon have even increased: which the Enii:h I:- but except an armament or two, which were owing to Fr 'p·2 particular circumstances, no sensible merchant has lent,his property to Malabar, Coromandel or Bengal; and the few who have ventured to do it, have been ruined. It could note otherwise, and yet no inference can be drawn from thence in favour of exclusive privileges. IT may be remembered that the destruction of the com any, which would have happened of itself, was hastened by avarice and animosity. Politics, which were not con cornet in the revolution, had made no provision for the regulation of that public trade which was to supply the,place
place of the exclusive privilege. That sudden transition B 0 0 K could be attended with no success. Before this new system I was entered upon, private merchants ought, insensibly and gradually, to have been substituted to the company. They should have been put in the way of acquiring a thorough knowledge of the several branches of a commerce to which they were utter strangers. They Should have been allowed time to form connections in the fairies. They should have been favoured and assisted in their first expeditions BUT, all these precautions would have been insufficient to insure the success of the French traders in India. It was morally impossible they Should cope with the English, who being masters of every thing and every place, had all the advantages resulting from power, and from the loose principles which prosperity infpi-es; which gave them fair opportunities of defeating all attempts of this kind. So that which ever way, or in whatever shape the trade of France was carried on, it must of course sussex greatly. No doubt, things would succeed better, if the court of Versailles were to put the settlements in India in a condition to grant that protection which every sovereign owes to his subjects throughout his dominions. It would be better still if the British ministry would watch over the execution of treaties with that readiness that suffice requires. But this oppression, alike disgraceful to the nation that suffers from it, and to the nation that allows it, can never be effectually removed, but by restoring the balance between them, and unfortunately this can only be done by a war. FAR be it from us to suggest any idea that would tend to rekindle the flames of discord. Rather let the voice of reason and philosophy be heard by the rulers of the world. May all sovereigns, after so many ages of error, learn to prefer the virtuous glory of making a few men happy, to the mad ambition of reigning over wasted regions andover
3B 0 K over people groaning under the weight of oppression. May,all men become brethren, and accustom themselves to consider the universe as one family, under the eye of one common father. But these wiles, which are those of every sensible and humane man, will appear as idle dreams to ambitious ministers, who hold the reigns of empire. Their busy and restless disposition will still shed torrents of blood. SoME pitiful commercial interesting again arm the French and the English. Though Great Britain, in molt of her wars, has aimed chiefly at destroying the industry of her neigh hours, and though the superiority of her naval forces may feed this hope, so often deceived, we may safely foretel that she would chuse to remove the scene of action from the seas of Asia, where she would have so little to gain, and so much to lose. That power is not ignorant of the secret wiles formed on ail sides for the overthrow of an edifice which obstructs all the rest. The subah of Bengal secretly murmurs at his not having so much as a teeming authority. The subah of the Dean is inconsolable to see his commerce under the controul of a foreign po-er. The nabob of Arcot endeavours to dispel the jealousies of his tyrants. The Marattas are exasperated to find nothing but obstacles to their depredations. All the posers in those parts, either are actually enslaved, or think themselve; at the eve of being so. England, we may pre fiume, would not wish to see the French at the head of such a confederacy. A strict neutrality for the Indies would suit them best, and we may be fire this is the scheme they would gladly follow. BUT would this system be as eligible for their rivals Certainly not. The French are informed that warlike pre operations made at the isle of France might be of great ser vice; that the conquests of the English are too extensive not to lie exposed ; and that since their experienced officers are returned home, the British possessions in Hindostan are cry guarded by young people, who are more intent upon,n;aking
speaking their fortunes than upon military exercises. It is, B o o K therefore, to be presumed, that a warlike nation would 1 V eagerly seize an opportunity of repairing their former disasters. At the fight of their standards, all there op pressed sovereigns would take the field; and the rulers of India, surrounded with enemies and attacked at once on the north and on the south, by sea and by land, would infallibly be overpowered. THEN the French, considered as the deliverers oflndoftan, would emerge from that state of humiliation into which their own misconduct hath plunged them. They would be come the idols of the princes and people of Asia, provided the revolution they had brought about was to them a lesson of moderation. Their trade will be extensive and flourishing so long as they know how to be just. But this prosperity would end in some fatal catastrophe, should an inordinate ambition prompt them to plunder, ravage and oppress. To give stability to their situation, they must even, by noble and generous proceedings, force their rivals to forgive them their advantages. No great magnanimity will be requisite, patiently to endure the operations of the northern nations of Europe in the seas of Asia.,THE END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
I- N D E X,TO T E FIRST Volumes 0 0K I.,Page INTRODUCTION - - t,The discoveries, wars, and conquests of the Portuguese in the East Indies - ib. The first expeditions of the Portuguese, their arrivals the Indies - - 23 A geographical description of Aia - 24 Natural History of Hindostan 27 Religion, government, and customs of Hindostan 30 The Portuguese establish a settlement on the coast of Malabar - 50 The manner of carrying on trade in India before the conquests of the Portuguese - 5 The Portuguese make themselves masters of the Red,Sea - - - 63 VOL. I. a The
The Portuguese make themselves masters of the Per shan gulph - - 68 The Portuguese form a settlement at Ceylon 71 The Portuguese conquer Malacca 7+ Settlement of the Portuguese in the Malacca Islands 78 The causes of the enterprizing spirit of the Portuguese 81 Arrival of the Portuguese at China. State of this empire - - - - 84 The beginning of the Portuguese trade in Japan, the state of the Japanese islands - 107 Extent of the Portuguese dominions in the Indies 112 Corruption of the Portuguese in India - 13 Decline of the Portuguese power in India - 119 Present state of the Portuguese affairs in India 126,B O O K II. The settlements, wars, policy and trade of the Dutch in the East Indies --128 Ancient revolutions in Holland - - ib. Rise of the republic of Holland - 33 The first voyages of the Hollanders to India 130 Establishment of the India company - 138 Wars of the Hollanders and Portuguese 139 The Hollanders form a settlement at Formosa 142 Trade of the Hollanders to Japan - 145,The
The Moluccas submit to the Dutch 151 The Dutch from a settlement at Timor - 156 The Dutch make themselves matters of Celebes 157 The Dutch open a communication with Borneo 161 Settlements of the Dutch at Sumatra 163 Trade of the Dutch at Siam 164 Situation of the Dutch at Malacca - 166 Settlement of the Dutch at Ceylon - 167 Trade of the Dutch on the coast of Coromandel 176 Trade of the Dutch on the coast of Malabar. 177, The Dutch settlement at the Cape of Good Hope 179 Dominions of the Dutch in the island of Java 185 The manner of conducing the affairs of the Dutch company in India and in Europe - - 201 Causes of the prosperity of the company 206 Reasons of the decline of the company - 212 Measures that remain to be taken for the re-establish ment of the company's affairs - 218 Former good contra of the Dutch, and their present degeneracy - 233,B O O K III. Settlements, trade, and conquests of the Englishman the East Indies --38 Sketch of the ancient state of the English commerce ib. First voyage; of the English to India - 243,a 2 Disputes
Disputes between the English and Dutch - 247 Disputes of the English with the Portuguese - 250 The English form connections with Persia - 25 Decline of the English in India - 56 Revival of the English trade in India - 57 War between the English and French - 266 General trade of the Red Sea, and of the English trade there in particular - - ib. General view of the trade in the Persian gulph, and that of the English in particular - 283 General state of the trade on the coast of Malabar, and that of the English in particular 294 General state of the coast of Coromandel, and that of the English in particular - - 310 General trade of Bengal and that of the English in particular - - 325 The English settlement at St. Helena - 3 The use he English make of the islands of Contra 346 The English company leave the country trade to private adventurers - - - 34 The company judge it improper to keep up their marine - 348 Capital of the company - - 349 Extent of the company's trade - 350 Dividends of the proprietors - 354 Conquest of Bengal, advantages drawn by the English from this acquisition, and the concur they have here hitherto observed - 355,BOO K
B O O K IV.,Page Voyages, settlements, wars and trade of the French in the East Indies - - - 38 Ancient revolutions of commerce in France ,. ib. First voyages of the French to the East Indies 388 Settlement of the French at Madagascar, description of that island . 389 The French make Surat the center of their trade. Acount of this famous city, and of the province of Guzaret, in which it is situated - res Attack of the French upon the islands of Ceylon and St. Thomas. Their settlement at Pondicherry 408 Settlement of the French at Siam. Their designs on Tonquin and Cochinchin - - 410 The loss and recovery of Pondicherry, which became the chief settlements in India - - 423 Decline of the French company, and the cause of it 425 The French company recovers a glimpse of its an-scent splendour by Law's system; but soon relapses into obscurity - - 429 Great success of the French in India 435 Views of the French to aggrandize themselves. Ac count of Hindostan - - 444 Wars between the English and French. The French lose all their settlements - - 465 Causes of the misfortunes of the French - 469 Steps taken in France to re-establish affairs in India 471,These
These measures are insufficient. The trade of individuals is substituted to that of the company. State of that society at the time of its decay - 475 Present state of the French upon the coast of Mala - bar - - - 48 Present state of the French at Bengal. Present situation of the French upon the coast of Coromandel 491 Present situation of the French in the isle of France 494 It behoves the court of Versailles to fortify the she of France and Pondicherry-if it will have any share in the trade-of India - - - 498 The French being once firmly established in India, will .hake off the oppression which the English im pose upon them .- - oa,B.KI1T. ',I N. M1
e% The Livres in this Work have been reduced to Sterling at the rate of Ten-pence Half penny per Livre. In the Course of this Ope ration the Translator found Reason to suspect that the Author valued them at a different Rate, and upon Trial in some Instances the Value came out at the Rate of Ten-pence Two thirds of a Penny. Possibly this may have been the Author's Standard: the Translator, however, did not make any Change in his Cal citations for two Reasons: First, because the Work was far advanced; and Secondly, be cause the Arithmetic in the Original, is in many Instances far from being accurate.
A philosophical and political history of the settlements and trade of the Europeans in the East and West Indies. Translated from the French by J. Justamond, M. A. .
A PHILOSOPHICAL AND POLITICAL H I S T O R Y,OF THE SETTLEMENTS AND TRADE,OF THE E U R 0 P E A N S EUROPEANS,IN THE EAST AND WEST INDIES.,TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY J. JUSTAMOND, M. A.,VOLUME THE SECOND.,LONDON: PRINTED FOR T. CADELL, IN THE Strands DCC.LXXVI.
- ' -.* - -" '-" z '.-i**** - PHILdSOF-HS AL ANDI:POLITrCAL-. H I' S T O R Y,. , . - . - . 9 . - , ., OF Tyre ; S ETJtEMtiNTSS AN Tread,' :.- OF THE E U R O P E N S: ' . . . ' " .' . . . ' ',I N T H 3E · - .T, Seas T AN D WEST SS sN D I E'S. .trade of Denmark, Ostend, Sweden, Pruia, Spain,,and Russia, to the EaJ? .hdias. Some itnporta*tt inquiries concerning the connections of Europe with tie Indies. T is the general opinion, that in the earliest times, B O o K a people called the Cimbri possessed, at the ex trinity of Germania, the Cimbrian Cherfonefus, now Antient re known by the 'name of Holstein, Slefwic and Jut DolU'nS,Denmt2k. land; and that the Teutonic lived in the adjacent sands. Whether these people had or had not the same origin, certain it is, that they came out of their forests or fens together.in a body, and as one nation, and penetrated among the Gauls, in quest of booty, glory, and a milder climate they were even preparing to cross the Alps, when Rome thought it was proper to stem a tor rent which carried all before it. Those barbarians tri 4mphed over all the generals, that proud republic sent VOL.l.B to
B o o K to oppose them, till that-memorable ira when they Were,V totally defeated by Marius.,THEIR country, which became aloft a desart after that terrible catastrophe, was peopled again by the Scythian who, being driven by'Pompey out of that vast £pace between the Euxine and the Caspian sea-marched towards the north and weft of Europe, ftibduifig'all the nations they found in their way. The enslaved Russia, Saxony, XVfcRphalia, the Cimbrian Cherfonefus, and the :countries as far as Finland, Norway ard Sweden. It is pretended that Wodin their leader traversed so many countries, and fought to subdue them, only with a view to excite the people against the formidable, odious and tyrannical power of the Romans.' Tht hai mofity, which at the time of his death he had raised in the north, fermented so strongly in secret, that some centuries after, all nations with one accord sell upon that empire, the enemy to all liberty, and had the satisfaction of subverting if, having first weakened it by repeated concuflions.,DENMARK and Norway remained without inhabitants after these glorious expeditions. They gradually and quietly recovered, and were first taken notice of again, towards the beginning of the eighth century. Their valour now exerted itself, not on land, but on the ocean. Surrounded as they were by two fas, they commenced pirates, which is always the first sep towards navigation in uncivilized nations they first made trial of their strength against the neighbouring states, and seized the few merchant this they found failing up and down the Baltic. Emboldened by there successes, they were enabled to plan mote considerable undertakings. They infested the seas and coasts of Scotland, Ireland, England, Slanders, France, and even Spain, Italy and Greece. They frequently penetrated into the inland parts of those vas countries,,5 and
and even ventured upon the conquest of Normandy and B o Kt England. Notwithstanding the confusion that reigns in , v. the annals of those barbarous times, we may fill trace some of the crises of so many strange events the people of Denmark and Norway had originally a firing propensity to piracy, which has always-been observed in people bordering upon the sea, when they are not restrained by civilization and good laws. Custom must necessarily have made the ocean familiar to them, and inured them-to its forms. Having no agricola. ture, breeding but few cattle, and finding but a scanty resource in hunting, in a country covered with ice and snow, they could have no strong attachment to their own territories. The facility with which they built their (hips, which were nothing more than rafts, clumsily put together for failing along the coasts, afforded them the means of an easy access to all parts, and enabled them t6 make def cents, to plunder, and to remark. Piracy was to them what it had been to the first heroes of Greece, the road to glory and fortune; the profession of honour, which consisted in a contempt of all danger. This idea inspired them with invincible courage in their ex petitions, sometimes under the joint command of differ went chiefs, and sometimes divided into as many arma mints as nations. These sudden attacks, made in a variety of places at once, left to the inhabitants of trhl .coasts, who were but ill defended, because they were ill governed, only the sad alternative of being matac:red, or giving up their all to redeem their livest his destructive character was a natural consequence of the savage life of the Danes and Norwegians, and of-the rough and military education they received i but it was more particularly the effet of the religion ds Wodin. That victorious impostor, improved, if we may be allowed to say so, the natural fierceness of those nations by his sanguinary doarincs. He would have all,B 2 the
B o 0 K the implements of rarefied, such as swords, axes, and,V. lances. The most sacred engagements were confirmed ' - hby these precious instruments. A lance set up in the middle of a plain, was the signal for prayer and sacrifice. Wodin himself at his death was ranked amongst the im mortal gods, and was the first deity of those horrid re lions, where the rocks and woods were stained and consecrated with human blood. His followers thought they honoured him by calling him the God of armies, the fa ther of daughter, the depopulator, the incendiary, The warriors, when they went to battle, made a vow to send him a certain number of fouls that they devoted to him. These fouls were the right of Wodin. It was the general belief, that that God appeared in every bat lie, either to proteA those who fought valiantly, or to mark out the happy victims he chose for himself. That these followed him to the regions of bliss, which were open to none but warriors. The people ran to death, as to martyrdom, to obtain this reward. This belief increased their natural propensity to war, till it grew to enthusiasm, and to a holy thirst for blood christianity overthrew all the ideas resulting from such a system. The missionaries endeavoured to bring the proselytes to a sedentary life, that they might be fit to receive their intrusions. They disgusted them of their roving life, by suggesting other means of subsist once. They were so happy as to inspire them with a love of agriculture, and still more of fishing. The great plenty of herrings which then flocked to their coats, as forded them an easy means of procuring food. The overplus of this fish, they soon learnt to barter for the salt they wanted to cure the rest. These growing con nations were encouraged by one common faith, new prospects, mutual wants, and great safety. This made such a total revolution, that since the conversion of the,5 * Deem s
Danes and Norwegians, not a single instance is to be B o o K found in history, of their expeditions and depredations., ' THE new (spirit which seemed to animate Norway and Denmark, could not fail of extending their communi cation more and more with the other nations of Europe. Unfortunately it was intercepted by the ascendant of the Hanse towns. Even when that great and singular con federal sell to decay, Hamburgh still maintained the superiority it had acquired over all the subjects of the Danish dominions. They were beginning to break the bands that had subjected them to this kind of monopoly, when they were induced to undertake the navigation to the Earl Indies, by an incident that deserves to be taken notice of. A DiTCH favor, named Bofchower, being sentry his Denmark nation to conclude a treaty of commerce with the king the true of of Ceylon, so ingratiated himself with that monarch, tIc lndie. that he became chief of his council, his admiral, and was created prince of Mingle. Bofchower, intoxicated with there honours, hastened to Europe, to make a parade of them to his countrymen. He took great otence at the coldness with which those republicans re civet the titled slave of an Asiatic court; and was so highly provoked at it, that he went over to Christian IV. king of Denmark, and offered him his services, and the interest he hid at Ceylon. His proposals were accepted. He failed in i618, with fix ships, three of which be longed to the government, and three to the company that had associated to undertake the trade of the Indies. His death, which happened in their passage, put an end to the hopes they had conceived. The Danes met with a very bad reception at Ceylon, and their chief, Ove Giedde de Tommerup, saw no other resource than to carry them to Tanjour, the nearest part of the con tinent.,B 3 Tanjour
o o-candour is a small ftatewhich is but a hundred., miles in its greatest length, and eighty in its greatest breadth. It is of all that coast the province that bears the greatest quantity of rice. By means of this natural wealth, of a great many common manufactures, and plenty of roots. used for dying, the public revenue amounts to near five millions '. Its fertility is owing to its being watered by the Caveri, a-ivcr which comes down from the mountains of Gate. At upwards of toe mils: from the head, it divides in two firearms. At the entrance of Tanjour, the eastern branch takes the name of Coleroon. The other retains the name of Caveri, and Subdivides again into four branches, which all flow within the kingdom, and preserve it from that horrible drought which burns up the reft of Coromandel for the greatest part of the year this happy situation made the Danes with to fettle a colony in Tanjour. The-ir proposals met with a fa favourable reception. They obtained a fruitful and populous territory, on which they built Tranquebar, and as towards the fortress of Dannrbourg, sufficient for the defence both of the road and the town. On their side they engaged to pay an annual homage of 16,5oo livres b, which is paid to this day. Circumstances were favourable for opening a large trade. The Portuguese, who groaned under the oppression of a foreign yoke, struggled but faintly to preserve their possessions. The Spaniards sent no ships but to the Molucca and Philippine islands. The Dutch thought of nothing but engrossing the spice trade. The English felt the.effecs of the disturbances of their country, even in the Indies. All these powers could not see this new nival without regret, but none opposed it.,THSNCE it happened that the Danes, who set out with a capital of no more than 853,263 livres C, carried s5;75c I. b About -: 1. . About 37,,;01.,on
on a pretty considerable trade in all parts of the Indies. B 0 0 K Unhappily the Dutch company acquired such a super priority, as to exclude them from the markets where they had dealt to the bes( advantage.; and what was still more unfortunate,. the dissentions that rent the north of Eu rope, would not permit the mother country to attend to such remote concerns as those of this colony. The Danes of Tranquebar insensibly sell into contempt, both with the natives, who value men only in proportion to their riches, and with rival nations, whose competition they could not curtain. They were discouraged by this inferiority, and the company gave up their charter, and made over their settlements to the government, as an indemnification for the sums they had advanced.,A new society was formed in 1670 upon the ruins of changes the old one. Christian V. made them a present, in the Danhis,trade has ships and other effects, valued at 310,828 livres, lo undergone fous , and the adventurers advanced 732,600 livres . in india. This second undertaking, which was entered upon without a sufficient fund, proved hill more unfortunate than the first. After a few voyages, the factory of Tranquebar was left to shift for itself. All they had to subsist the inhabitants, and their small garrison, was their little ter ritory and two vessels that they freighted for the mer chants of that country. Even these resources failed them Sometimes; and to save themselves from starving, they were reduced to mortgage three of the four bastions that constituted their fortress. They were hardly in a condition to fit out a lip for Europe once in three years, with a very moderate cargo. PITY seemed to be the only sentiment that so desperate a situation could inspire. Yet jealousy which never sleeps, and avarice which is alarmed at every tri she, stirred up an odious war against the Danes. The," i3,s9lh 4i B. Iad.a. e 32,051L 5$.,B 4 Raja
B o o Raja of Tanjour, who had several times cut off their,. communication with his territory, attacked them in,x689, in the very town of Tranquebar, at the instigation of the Dutch. That prince was on the point of taking the place, after a fix months siege, when it was succoured and saved by the English. This event neither was, nor could be attended with any important con sequences. The Danish company continued in a languid fate. It drooped every day more and more, and at last expired in 1730. FROm its ashes sprang up another two years after, which sHill subsists. The favours that were heaped upon them, to enable them to trade with oeconomy and free dom, plainly shew of what importance this commerce appeared to their government. Their charter is fettled for forty years. Whatever belongs to the armament and equipping of their lips, is exempted from all duties. The workmen they employ, whether natives or foreign hers, are not tied down to the regulations of a company, which are a restraint upon industry in Denmark, as well as in other countries in Europe. They are dispensed from using flampt paper.in their business. They have an absolute jurisdiction over the persons they employ; and the sentences passed by the directors are not liable to be reverted, unless the punishment is capital. To remove even the shadow of constraint, the sovereign has renounced the right he ought to have of interfering in the administration, as being chief proprietor. He has no influence in the choice of officers, whether civil or military, and has only reserved a power of confirming the office of governor of Tranquebar. He has even bound himself to ratify all political conventions they might think proper to make with the Asiatic powers. IN return for so many indulgences, government has only required one per cent. upon all merchandise of India and China which should be sent abroad, and toland
and a-half per cent. upon'all that should be consumed at B O O K home. - - . - V. THE grant, containing the above conditions, was no sooner made out, than adventurers were fought for. To engage them the more easily, they distinguished two different kinds of flock. The one was called fixed, and was appropriated to the acquisition of all the effects which the old company had in Europe and Asia. They called the other variable, because every year it was regulated by the number, the lading and the expence of the ships they think proper to send abroad. Every pro praetor may chuse whether he will or will not be con cornet in these armaments, which are liquidated at the close of every voyage. If any one (hould decline being concerned, which has never yet been the case, the venture would be offered to another. By this arrange ment, the company became permanent by prefixed, and annual by the variable stock. IT seemed a difficult matter to fate the share of ex pence, that each of these funds was to bear. Every thing was fettled with more ease than was expected. It was agreed that the variable (hould pay nothing but the necessary expences for the purchase, the fitting out, and the cargoes of the (hips. All besides war the business of the fixed shock, which, by way of compensation, was to take up ten per cent. upon all India goods which should be sold in Europe, and five per cent. upon all that should be lent out from Tranquebar. This continual addition to the fixed stock has so increased the capital, that instead of four hundred Shares at 1125 livres', which was the original flock of the company, it now. consists of sixteen hundred (hares at 16871. toss. It was fettled at this number in 1755, and ever since, the duties which went to the increase of the fixed fock, has,f 451. 4s. 4d c 73;1. 16s. td. .been
o, o. I been applied to the increasing of the dividend, which,' till then had been taken upon the profits of the variable frock. EVERY proprietor, though but of a single share, has a~ vote at the general meetings. A proprietor of three shares has two votes; a proprietor of five has three votes, and so on in the same proportion to twenty shares, which en tides the owner to twelve votes, but there the matter ends.,SOME alteration has been made in these regulations in-77z, when the charter was renewed for twenty years. It has been stipulated that no one member of the com any shall at any time have more than three votes, and that none shall be allowed to give his vote in writing or by proxy. s:-t c te DENMARK trades to the same parts of Asia as Danhlcl, other European nations. The pepper they fetch from Trace, in the L-.d:. Malabar does not exceed sixty thousand weight a year upon an average. ONE would be apt to think from every circumstance that their trade must be brisk on the coast of Coromandel. They are in possession of an excellent territory; though it is but two leagues in circumference, the population amounts to thirty thousand fouls. About ten thousand live in the town of Tranquebar. There are twelve thousand in a large village, where they work at ordinary manufactures. The rest are usefully employed in homeless fer villages. Three hundred Danes, fifty of whom com pose the garrison, are the only Europeans in the colony. Their maintenance costs but 96000 livres . a year, which is the income of the possession, or thereabouts the company give but little employment to their factors. They only send them twolhips once in three years i and those flips carry in all but 1800 bales of or diary cotton, which do not cost above 1,5c0,ooo livres '.,h 4,zcoL 1 65,6151.,The
The factors themselves do not know how to improve the B o o i leisure they enjoy, to advance their own private fortune. They can thins of no other way than lending the fniall capital they have at their disposal to Indian merchants at a high interest. And indeed Tranquebar, though an antient settlement, has not that appearance of life and opulence which is observable in more modern colonies which have been managed with spirit and skill. The French, driven out of their own settlements, had forme what enlivened Tranquebar, but when they left it, the colony sell again into the lame languid state as before. Yet the situation of the Danes in Coromandel, is not so bad as at Bengal.,SOON after their arrival in Asia, they displayed their flag on the Ganges. Their ill success soon obliged then to quit it, and they never appeared there again till 1755. Commercial jealousy, which is become the-ruling passion of our age, has frustrated their views upon Bankibafar, and they have been reduced to fix in the neighbourhood of that place. The French, who alone had supported the new factory, found a refuge there, in the calamities of the last war, and all the assistance of friendship and gratitude. Few ships come thither directly from Eu rope. Since 1757 there have been but two; both their cargoes together had cost but 2,60,000o livres k at home. THE trade to China being less tedious, and less liable to meet with obstacles, the Danish company has pursued it more warmly than either that to the Ganges or to Co romances, which require a previous stock. They send a large ship every year, and oftener two. The teas, which were their chief return, were mostly consumed in England. The acquisition that kingdom has made of the Ife osMan, which was the staple for that contraband 94,5co!l,trad",
B o o K trade, by depriving the Danes of that market, muff ne-,Mg . ceffirily lessen their dealings with China.,THE annual sales of the company now amount to 6,Soe,ooo livres . It is not likely they should be car cried much higher. We know their armaments are easily made and at a trifling expence. Their sailors, though not so bold as those of some other nations, have prudence ard experience. The iron they send to the Indies sound in the mines of Norway. Government pays them a very good price for the saltpetre they oblige them to bring home. The national manufactures are neither so numerous nor so much favoured as to be any hindrance to their tales. They can easily dispose of their goods all over the North, and in some part of Germany. They have good laws, and their whole conduct deserves the highest encomiums. There is not perhaps any administration to compare to that of this company for honest and ceconomy. NOTWITHSTANDING all there advantages, the Danish company will always be drooping. The consumption of their commodities will never be very great, in a region which nature has doomed to poverty, and which industry itself cannot enrich. The mother country is neither po populous, nor powerful enough to afford them the means of extending their commerce. Their capital is small, and will always remain so. Foreigners will not trust their'money in the hands of a body which is under the controul of arbitrary power in an absolute monarchy. With an administration that would do honour to the best constituted republic, they mull sussex all the hardships of slavery. A despotic government, with the bell intentions in the world, can never be powerful enough todo good. It begins by taking from the subjects that free exercise of their will which is the very foul and springs zS4,3751.,,f
of nations; and when it has broke this spring, it car B,,O K never before it again. It is mutual confidence that binds men together, unites their interests, and makes bu " fines go on. Whereas, arbitrary power absolutely ex chides all confidence, because it absolutely excludes. all,iTHE project formed in 1728, of removing the feat of the company from Copenhagen to Altera, could not remedy there inconveniences. Indeed the ships would have been sent off more easily, and would not have been' exposed to the danger of missing, their voyage, by being frost bound, as they are sometimes inrthe found , but we cannot agree with the authors ofthe scheme, that the vicinity would haze induced the Ham burghers to place their capitals on an adventure which they always dislike. So that we may body affirm that England and Holland were guilty of a needless act of tyranny 'when they opposed this domestic plan of a free and independent power. Their uneasiness about Ostend was better grounded. TflAT.knowledge of trade and administration, and ,that Efiablith- found' philosophy, which insensibly gained ground 'all r dia cofn- over. Europe, met with invincible obstacles in some S-no any at monarchies They could not penetrate to the court of Vieiiha, which was wholly intent upon projects of war, and aggrandizement by conquests. The English and Dutch, whose attention was engaged in preventing France from increasing her commerce, her colonies and her navy, stirred up enemies against her on the conti went, and lavished immense sums upon the house of Au tria, which were employed against France: but at ths peace, the luxury of one crown restored. more riches to the other, than it had taken from it by the war austrian power which ought to be formidable, from the extent of its dominions, is confined by reason of tit situation; for molt of its provinces are distant from the sea.,Its
B o o K Its lands produce but little wine, and few things that .- v' other nations are choice of. It affords neither oil, silk, nor,fine wool. It had no pretensions to opulence, and knew not how to be frugal. With the usual luxury and pomp of great courts, it gave no encouragement to industry and manufactures, which might have supplied the means of indulging that expensive taste. The contempt in which it has always held the sciences, flopped its pro' griefs in every thing. Artists will never be eminent: -i any country where they are not aided by men learning. Sciences-and:arts mutt both droop, wherever a. freedom of thinking is not allowed. The pride and intolerant spirit of the house of Austria, kept'her wait domains poor, superstitious, and fond of a barbarous kind of luxury. EvEN the low countries, formerly so famous for their activity and industry, retained nothing of their 'ancient splendor. Not a single sip was to be seen in the har your of-Antwerp it was no longer the storehouse of the north, as it had been for two centuries past. Brussels and Louvain, far from supplying other nations with their clothing, bought their own of the English. That pre 1 pious article, the herring silvery, had passed from Bruges-to *holland. Client, Country, and some other-owns found their linen and lace manufactures decreafe!dailyi Those princes, placed between the three most enlightened and moat trading nations in Europe, had not been able, notwithstanding their natural advantages, to bear up against such a competition. After striving some time against oppression, against impediments, multiplied 'by ignorance, and against the privileges which a-rapacious neighbour extorted from the continual wants of govern men, they were totally allen *to decay. PRINce Eugene, as great a statesman as -a warrior, with .mind superior to every prejudice, had been long in search of the means of enriching a power whose boundaries he had f greatly enlarged w hen g proposal was. made to,him,
him, establishing an India company at Ostend. The B o O first contrivers of-this'fcheme had very extensive views, . They pretended that's it could-be brought to bear, it would excite industry throughout the Auftrian:orriiiniots, would give them a navy, one part of which would be in the Netherlands 'and the other at Fiume and Trieste, W6fuld deliver that Power front the 'dependence The was still in on the subsidies of England and Holland, and make her formidable to the-coats 'of Turkey, and to the very city of Constantinople. :THE able nininler to whom this was addressed, was very sensible of the value of such overtures; however he would not be too hasty. To accustom his own court and all Europe to this novelty, he chose to'fiend out two Ships to India in 1717, with none but his own passports. Their voyage was so successful, that more were sent out the following years. Every expedition proved fortunate; and in si72 the court of Vienna thought it was time to secure the property of the adventurers, who were for the mois part English and Dutch, by the fullest' charter that ever Was granted. TriE new company, who had' capital of twenty mil lions, divided into ten thousand shares, appeared with great lustre-in all the-markets 'in india. They made two settlements, that of Cdblom, between Madrasss and Sadrafpatnam on the coast of Coromandel, and that of Barikibafar on the Ganges. They even isitehded to pro cure a placet put in at for'refiefhments, and had cast their eye upon Madagafcarfor that purpose. They were so happy in the choice of their agents, that they could rely trpon'them for the care of their concerns, as they had shewn resolution enough to surmount every'obftacle that'jealoify had thrown in their way, and kill enough to extricate themselves from all the snares that Had been laid-for them. The richness of'their returns, and the reputation of their stock, which brought in fifteen percent.
B o o K cent. fill increased their confidence. It is not to.be sup, ' posed they would have been disappointed of their expectations, had not their operations been thwarted bey. poli tical interests. To give a clear idea of the reasons of this policy, we turf take up the matter farther back., Cafsofthc WHEN Isabella had sent to discover America, and to of th, ,o- penetrate as far as the Philippine islands, Europe was so part at Of plunged in ignorance, that it was thought proper to prohibit the navigation to the East and Weft Indies, to all Tub; season Spain who were not natives of Castile. That part of the low-countries which hadn't recovered its liberty, having been given in ice to the Infanta Isabella, on Ser marriage with the archduke Albert, the new sovereigns were required to make a formal renunciation of this trade. When there provinces were again united to the monarchy in 1638, that circumstance made no alteration in this odious'fiipulation. The Flemings, justly offended *at being abridged :of the right which nature gives to all people, of trading wherever other nations are not law fully entitled to an exclusive privilege, complained loudly of this imposition. They were seconded by their governor the cardinal Infant, who obtained a decision, that they should be allowed to trade to the East Indies. The a& for this purpose was not yet issued, when Portugal shook off the yoke under which it had so long been oppressed. The fear of increasing the discontent of the Portuguese, whom they hoped to bring back, prevented the Spaniards from giving them a new rival in Asia, and *protracted the conclusion of this important affair. It was not at an end, when it was fettled at Munster in 1648, that the fubjeas of the king of Spain should never ex tend their trade in the Indies, more than it was at that period. This act ought not to have been lets binding to the emperor than it was to the court of Madrid, since he possesses the low countries on the same terms, and,with
with the same obligations they vere subjeA to, wheii 0 o Ic. under the dominion of Spain. . THUS reasoned Holland and Ehglarid, to compass the suppression of the new company, whose success gave them great uneasiness;; Those two allies; who by their mari time forces could have annihilated Offend and its trade, did not chuse to quarrel with a power which they them selves had raised, and which they thought they flood in need of against the house of Bourbon. So that though they were determined not to sussex the house of Austria to dip into the fountain of their riches, they contented them selves with making remonstrances on the violation of the nest foletnn engagements; They were seconded by France which had the same concern in the affair; and moreover was guarantee of the violated treaty. THE emperor paid no regard to there representations; Hews supported in his undertaking bathe obstinacy hi own disposition, by the ambitious prospects that had been suggested to him, and by the great privileges, and indulgences granted by Spain to the merchants residing in his dominions. That crown was then in hopes of ob gaining the heiress of the house of Austria for Don Car los, and thought no concessions too great for such an al hance. The union of those two courts, which had always been considered as irreconcilable, alarmed all Europe; Every nation thought itself in danger. Num beliefs leagues were formed, and many treaties concluded, to endeavour to break that harmony, which was thought to be more dangerous than it really was. All was to no purpose, till the council of Madrid, having no more treasures to lavish upon Germany, were convinced that they were pursuing a phantom. Austria was not dismayed at the defection of her ally, and seemed determined to assert her claims, and especially her commercial in teres. Whether the maritime powers were intimidated-by this steadiness, or whether, as was mole probably the,VOL. II. C c-ai,
o o c safe, theyonly consulted the dictates of found policy, . they determined to guarantee the pragmatic fashion if,1727. The court of Vienna paid this important service, by sacrificing the Ostend company. THOUGH the public acts mention only suspension fab seven years, the proprietors plainly saw that their ruin was determined, and that this stipulation was only in. served as a salvo to the imperial dignity. They had toe good an opinion of the court of London and the states general, to suppose they would have secured the indivifi. ability of the Austrian dominions for a meer momentary advantages This persuasion determined them to thins to more of Ostend, and to dispose of their stock foi ether way. They tried successively to fettle at Ham burgh, at Trifle and in Tuscany, but all their ended. yours proved abortive. Those succeeded best who mad. choice of Sweden. Cenrl . SWEDEN, whose inhabitants, known by the name o sketch of the ncitGCo- Goths, had contributed to the subversion of the Roman C-nmet of empire, after rushing like a torrent, shrank back into it,own desarts, and sank into its former obscurity. Thei domestic contests, as sharp as they were constant, les them no time to think of foreign wars, or to unit their interests with those of other nations. They ha unfortunately the worst of all constitutions, that in whic authority is so divided, as that neither of the fevers powers knows exactly what degree falls to its share;. Th claims of the king, the clergy, the nobility, the citie *and the peasants, make such a confusion, as. would thousand times have proved the ruin of the kingdom, i-their neighbours had not laboured under. the' same grim dances. Gustavus Vasa put an end to that anarchy. b uniting the greater part of thole powers'in his own. pet son but he plunged the fate into another calamity,,;fe as fatal as the former.,THA
THAT nation, which seemed to be designed by nature B o o I for navigation, as it is possessed of extensive sea coasts, ,Y excelleht'harborts, timber for ship buildings iron and copper mines, and all the other materials requisite for a navy, had given it up When they grew Weary of piracy. The people of Lubeck fetched aWay what they had to spare, and brought them salt, stuffs, and whatever they wanted from abroad. No ships were seen in their roads but the verels of that republic, or any warehouses in their towns but what belonged to them. TH haughty foul of Gustavus could not brook this dependence. He was determined to break the bands that tramped the industry of his subjects, but he set about it too hastily. He shut his harbours against the people of Lubeck) before he had built any ships or trained up any merchants. This put an end at once to all intercourse between his fubce&s and other nations; and such a total stagnation of business proved fatal to agriculture, that first of arts in all countries, and the only one then known in Sweden. The fields lay fallow, where once the hus bondman had nor not those incessant and repeated de hands, which till then had been a spur to his industry. Some English and Dutch ships, which arrived there now and then, had not yet roused the old emulation when Gustavus Adolphus ascended the throne. HI signalized the first years of his reign by making useful alterations. Rural labours were revived ; the works went on better in the mines s companies were set ;on:fiat to trade to Persia and the East Indies; the foundations of a new colony were laid on the coast of North America; the Swedish flag was seen in all the seas of Europe, carrying copper, iron, wood, tallow, tars hides, butts corn, fish and. furs; and bringing home wine, brandy, salt, spice and all forts of stuffs this prosperity was but momentary. The wars of the great Gustavus in Germany, soon checked the grow-,C ing
1 o o ing industry of the Swedes. His successors endeavoured,to quicken it, but it was again destroyed by fresh wars, which land till the death of Charles XII. During that long period, the kings aimed at nothing but arbitrary power, and the genius of the nation was wholly turned to arms the Swedes did not apply themselves to useful pur suits, till they had lobi all their conquests, and till the elevation of Russia left them no hopes of new ones. The states of the kingdom having abolished despotism, corrected the abuses of so faulty an administration. The rapid transition from a fate of slavery to the fuller li betty, did not however occasion those violent concussions, which commonly attend such revolutions. All the al relations were made upon mature deliberation. The first attention was paid to the most necessary professions, which till then had been unnoticed, or despised. The arts of convenience, or elegance, were soon introduced. Several masterly performances were published, treating of the deeper sciences, and worthy to be adopted by the mot enlightened nations. Such of the citizens as had quitted their long ruined country, returned home with the talents they had acquired. The young nobility travelled into every part of Europe where any thing was to be learnt. Order, political oEconomy, and the several branches of administration, became the general topic of conversation. Whatever concerned the republic, was maturely discussed in the general' assemblies, and freely approved or censured in the public writings. 'Informations were called in from all quarters. Foreigners' who brought any invention, or any useful knowledge, were kindly received; and it was at that favourable juncture that the agents of the Ostend company made their ap Ten Swedes appearance. tcult-:-eti A rich merchant of Stockholm, named Henry Ko Igi ra. king, approved of their schemes, and procured the ap-,whsi~~S s punch it probation ia fouold.
probation of the-diet in 1731. An India company was B o 0 K eablifhhd, with the exclusive privilege of trading be. V yond the cape of Good Hope. The Charter was only for fifteen years. It was not thought expedient to grant it for a longer time, both to have an early opportunity of rectifying any imperfections incident to new under takings, and to quiet the minds of many citizens, who were averse to an undertaking which they thought im proper for men accustomed to their climate. In order, as much as possible, to unite the advantages of a free trade with those of a privileged association, it was agreed that the stock should be unlimited, and that each pro, praetor should be at liberty to withdraw his own at the end of every voyage. As moi of the adventurers were foreigners, it was thought butjuflice to secure a profit to the nation, by obliging them to pay the government 2250 livres ", upon the cargo of every lip. NOTWITHSTANDING this duty, which nearly con fined their trade to China, the proprietors divided much greater profits than any other company ever did. This success determined the states, when they renewed the char ter in 1746, to demand 75,000 livres " per ship, in lieu of the old duty. These terms were punctually complied with till 1753' then the directors, who felt the sweets of their situation, projected to make it permanent, by giving a firm consistency to the transient association that had intruded them with the management of their affairs; and they contrived to have their scheme adopted by the assembled nation. It was not to be expected that the proprietors would so readily assent to a system that abridged them of their liberty, and was the more to be dreaded, as it had proved fatal to other companies. They were however allured by the prospect of a more regular income, instead of a dividend which had for some years varied to an incredible degree; which was either so con,* 981. Ss. 9d. 3,2Sl). 5 ,C 3 trivet
o o K trivet on purpose to make the projet go down the bettter,or was a natural consequence of the flirtation of trade. They were finally determined by the indulgence the gb government shewed them, in taking no more than a deity of twenty per cent. upon tea, and all other India 'soda which should be consumed within the kingdom, instead of the 75,000 livres * which had been paid for fix years upon every ship. This new regulation lasted till'x766; which was the time of the expiration of the charter granted twenty years before. ,they had not put off till that period taking measures for the renewal of the company. As early as the 7th of July 1762, a new charter was granted for twenty years longer. The conditions were more advantageous to the state, than was expected by those who had not attended to the profits of that trade. The company lent the go: government 1,5o00,oo livres P without interest, and 3,000,000 q at fix per cent. The proprietors who ad danced this money, were to be repaid gradually out of the drawback of 1I2,500 livres', which they engaged to pay for every hip they should send out. A duty's one fourth of the produce was laid on all such of their com modifies as should be exported out of-the kingdom; and such as were consumed at home were to pay the old du ties, or such new ones as government should think pro per to lay on them. This is the regulation that' subsists ever once 1766.,THE company have fixed the center of their biifines at Gothenburg, which is by far the mots coinvjiieiit port for their purpose. At first their flock varied from one voyage to another. It is generally believed that int 1753, it was fixed at nine millions', though but first were laid down. Those who are best informed, are of * 321SL 55. P 65,6s51. i Ijla3,oL t. ,92x1117. 6d. 6 393,75cl. t 16i5sooL,opinio,
Opinion that the lait regulation has really brought in ten a o o. I millions ; but we know nothing on this important v' point, except from conjecture, for it never was laid before the public. As the Swedes were very little concerned in this Rock, it was judged best to conceal the poverty of it, and to that end it was enacted, that any director who should divulge the names of the proprietors, or the sums they had subscribed, Should be suspended, or even de poesy, and irretrievably forfeit all the Stock he was possessed of. This mysterious conduct is Sill observed. In deed the accounts of the dreary are regularly laid before twelve of the chief proprietors, who are chosen once in four years at a general meeting; but mercantile people will never consider this as a sufficient security; and will al. ways think it strange, that a free state should have open ed such a door for corruption. Secrecy, in politics, is like lying; it saves a slate for a while, and is the undo ing of it in the end. Neither is of any use but to wicked men. . THOUGH the company met with some mischances, the dividend kept up to thirty two per cent. upon an ave rage. This whole profit was made upon sales that did not exceed fix millions of livres " yearly. Eleven twelfths of those goods have been exported, and what little, the Swedes have consumed, they have paid for with their own commodities. The scarcity of cash, and the few resources they had, would not admit of greater luxury, as will appear if we consider the following par tikulars.,THE extent of Sweden is 6900 leagues square, allow Present,'late of ing, asrthey do in that country, but ten and a half to a Sweden. 'degree: A great part of it is covered with immense Jakes. !Thee.oil, which is most commonly greasy clay, is harder to till than sandy ground, but it bears mores 437,5001. v z6)50oo 1.,C 4 The
B o o K The prodigious snows that cover-it, helter and .eheril,v' the plants. Unfortunately the.winters-are so-long,-and,the days To short, that there is but little-time. for the a- hours of the field. Besides, as the men are taJer:and stouter than in other countries, they require more:fubw- Partial food, and in larger quantities. - ' FRO these reasons we should be apt to suspect that the population never was very greatin.Sweden, ,though it has been called the manufaaor of human kind-pros bably- the numerous bands who poured out, and whop under the so much dreaded name of Goths and Vandals ravaged and subdued so many regions of Europe, were-ne' other than swarms of Scythians and Sarmatia, :who came thither in a constant succession by the porticos Asia. Yet it would be a mistake to suppose that, that vast country was always as thinly peopled as it is snows Some historical proofs which were laid before the states-at their last meeting, convinced them thar three hundred years ago, their country had more inhabitants than it has at present, though at that time they professed the ca cholic religion, which enjoins the monastic life, and the celibacy of the clergy. It appears from a very accurate account taken in I76o, by order of the government, that Sweden, exclusive of her German dominions w.hih are but trifling, has actually but 2,383,11i3 subjects; and that in this population, there are 1,127,938 men and 1,255,175 women. By taking the mean term, this makes 345 inhabitants to a league square. The two ex trees are Gotha which has 1248, and Lapland which has but two inhabitants to. a league the numbers would be greater in all the proving, if.they were not continually deserted by the natives, and. frequently for ever. There are men in all countries, who, either out of curiosity, or from a natural restless' less, and without any determinate object, love to rove about but this is only the malady of' a few individuals,
rituals, arid cannot be deemed the standing cause of a B o k constant emigration. There is a natural propensity in v. all. men to love thereon country, which is rather to be accounted for from moral, than from natural prin cipher. An inherent fondness for society, the ties of blood and of friendship, an acquaintance with the climate arid language, that partiality we are so apt to con trace for the place; the manners and the way of life we are-accustomed to, all these are, to a rational being, so Many attachments to the land in which he was born, and educated. They must be powerful motives that can determine him to break all these ties at once, and to prefer another country, where all will be strange and new to him. In Sweden, where the whole power re sides in the states, which are composed of the' several order' of' the kingdom, even that of peasants, every one h-ould be the more attached to his country'; yet enigma. tions are very frequent, and there must be some cause for them the class which of all others are most attached to their'country, are the husbandmen. Agriculture was tolerably flourishing, till Gustavus Vasa prohibited the exportation of corn. Ever since that fatal edit, it has constantly degenerated, and the endeavours used of late yeras'to restore it, have not altogether had the desired effect. Government buys every year part of. the corn that is wanted for home consumption; and this scarcity Nay last long, as it is very difficult to breed large quantities of 'cattle. They must be fed dry for nine months in the year, and hands are wanting to cut up and to house that quantity of fodder, which the long winters require.',THu'mines are not liable to the like inconveniences. They were long the chief support of the kingdom, but are'fince grown dependent on the English and Dutch, .who've lent large sums to carry on the works. Better
a e K better management has gradual. ftreed;them-frSo,thi i T bandage. The filer mines actually 'brings-in 4509,marks to the fate; the copper innes. yield 800o jigotr; of which 5500 are exported-te., iron mines .yield 40o,ooo ingots, of which they export about 3o00ooo. Thee-last were easily multiplied,. especially in thetford them provinces, which abound with wood and water for the works, and where the long and revere winters are favourable to the transport. The fates held in. v65 sorbad the opening of any more, though no reason od political oeconomy can be assigned for such a prohibition We may presume to suspect, that it took its. rif from the private and personal interest of. fine ,leading men in the diet. The manufactures have not fared better than the mines. - 'TILL the happy revolution which restored the liberty of Sweden, the nation in general were clothed in foreign stuffs. At that: memorable period, they were: sensible how impossible it was to reaify this evil with their'oawi wool, which was extremely coarse; so they serf foi ewes and rams from Spain and England, andr.by. th precautions that have been taken, they have not,-muct degenerated. As the flocks multiplied, the,.manufac- turns increased to that degree, that in-1763, they.cm, played 45,ooo hands. This progress has displeased dont patriots, who thought it prejudicial to agriculture., Is vain were they told, that the manufactures promoted thX consumption of the productions of shetland.; :that the multiplied cattle, and that the cattle fertilized·,tbi ground; that there were in the kingdom but eight 9p ten towns, at moi, that deserved to be called so, an that their population, relative to that of the country was but as one to twelve, which was not the caf. :ir any other country. These representations had-no effect The diet of 1765, from party spirit or ignorance,adoptei
adopted the views of those whp were for feeding every no o o body back to the plough. :To bring this about, they have Shackled industry with all the fetter* they could * ' devise. The consequence has been, that the artificers are gone to seek for employment abroad, especially Russia, and that now Sweden has no manufactures. Their fisheries have not met with the same fate. The only one that deserves to be considered in a political view, is the herring fiery. It only began in 174a. Before that time, the herrings did not frequent the coasts of Sweden, They then came in shoals to the coast of Gothenburg, and have never forsaken it since. They annually export 200,000 barrels, which at the rate of 20 livres x per barrel, amount to 4,oq,00oo of livres, About 8000 barrels are sent over to the English islands in America. It is very surprising that: the French, who have more slaves, and are more at a loss cato feed them, should never have encouraged the importation of so de liable an article. THE Swedish nation was not yet possessed of the her ring fishery, when they prohibited the importation of all foreign commodities, and the conveying their own from one harbour of the kingdom to another in foreign bot toms. Thatfamous edit, restored navigation, which had long since been destroyed by the calamities of wat. Their fag which was unknown every where, was now to be seen on all seas. Their seamen soon acquired skill and experience. - Some able politicians were even of opinion that their progress was growing 'too considerable for a depopulated country. They thought it would be best to Weep to the exportation of their own produce, and the importation of such foreign commodities as they wanted, and have-nothing to do with mere freight. This system was warmly opposed. Some eminent statesmen were of,1a 7 S. 6d. . S75,oool.,oPin on.
io O-K opinion-thatl-efar from 'ramping this branch of industry it ought to be encouraged, by abolishing every regulation thatanight tendtoobftru it. The exclufiverright of passing the Sound-ams forimerlyappropriated to a few towns, distinguished by-the: name of Staple. All the parts situate tor-he north :of-Stockholm or Abo, Were obliged to send their commodities to one of there :naples, and there-to take in:thofe of the. Baltic, which they could have procured cheaper first hand. Thofeodiotts distinctions, contrived in barbarous times, and tending to favour the monopoly of merchants, still subsist to this day.: The wisest peculators in matters of administration wlhed to see them abolished; that a more 'general competition might produce greater industry. Biutwhat- ever: may be the wishes of the nation with regard-to rade,.no person is desirous of having the army aug melted. : - - Before-te' reign of' Gustavus Vasa, every Swede was a soldier. Upon any emergency of the fate, the husbandman left his plough, and took uphis bow.! :The whole nation was inured to war, by their incessant civil broils. Government had but five hundred :men in pay, who were always to hold themselves ins readiness 'to march. In 1542, this shall corps-was increased: to-fix thousand. The peasants, upon whom these troops were quartered, found the burden intolerable, and it was ne ciliary to ease them of it. For this purpose, the:uncul- treated lands were incorporated with the crown lands, and when they're cleared, these new defenders of their country were placed on them.' This excellent institution has been continued ever since. Military men are not but up in garrisons, to lead a life of idleness, as they are in other countries. From the general to the common soldier, every one has a house which he lives in, and a spot of ground of his own, which he improves. The extent and value of this land, is proportionable to,a3t~~~~~~~ ~~~his
his rank in the.army. This possession, which they hold O O OK from the crown, is called Boetll, and is never granted but inthe domains belonging to government, The army now consists of eight regiments of horse, three regiments of dragoons, two regiments of hussars, and twenty one re giants iof national infantry that are paid in the above manner, and ten regiments of foreign troops, who are paid in money, and disposed of in the provinces, and in the fortresses beyond the seas: all these forces together amount to 50,000 men. This army is increased to 84,ooo men, by the addition of 34,000 soldiers, who are, kept in reserve, and have likewise their Bojleik, and by their institution are destined to supply the place of those who die among the national infantry, are lost or taken prisoners. Twenty ships of the line, with a pro personable number of frigates, and a few galleys, com plate the forces of the republic. To make these forces at, the fate has only a re venue of eighteen millions of livres A, which arises from land tax, the returns of the customs, duties upon cop per, iron, and Ramped paper, a poll-tax, and a free gift. This is very little for the expences of war, and the ne effigies of government; and yet it must also answer for the payment of debts. THESE debts amounted to 7,500,000 livres', when Charles XI. came to the crown. That prince, who was an economist, in a manner becoming a sovereign, paid them off. He went still farther, and redeemed fe vernal of the domains conquered in Germany, which had been alienated to powerful neighbours. He likewise redeemed the crown jewels, upon which considerable sums had been borrowed in Holland. He fortified the frontier towns, succoured his allies, and often fitted out squadrons to maintain his superiority on the Baltic.,S 737,5Oo · 32Sz51.,The
a o o K The events subsequent to his death once more plunges. the nation into its former confusion, which has continued increasing ever since, so that the government was in debt 82,500,000 livres b, for which they paid for and a half per cent. interest. Of this capital, eight millions c are the property of foreigners five millions d belong to a finking fund, established to pay of the debts contrived by Charles XII, a million and a half to some communities, twelve millions and a half r to private persons in Sweden, and fifty-five millions to the bank. The ber calculators pretend that this bank, which belongs solely to the tate, and is only to be at their disposal by the nation in a general assembly, has got as much by lending its paper to private persons, upon mo veable and immoveable effects, as administration owes it. In that case, the republic in fat owes but one third of the debt, for which it pays interest, for the fake of supporting public credit this credit is the more necessary, as there doesn't since the last German war, remain two millions 1' of specie in circulation all over the kingdom. Every thing is carried on by paper. As those who are intruded with the management of the paper credit, are worst to keep every thing relative to it, a profound secret, the quantity cannot be exactly ascertained; but from the informations of the nicest observers, we may venture to affirm that the rum total of bank notes amounts to no leTs than seventy-seven millions '. POVERTY was not the greater evil under which'Swe- den laboured; she was 'threatened with calamities of ' more dangerous nature.' Private interest, whish had taken place of public spirit, filled the court, the senate, aid all orders of the republic with distrust. All bodies of -b b9$,37j5L L-3So0 * cliS375o0l e ó; c ' £ 546575L 6 tio~aoL 57,gooL. 1i 3,366,7?Oi.,men
men were 'best upon .each other's destruction with un B o 0 K paralleled inveteracy,. When the means were wanting V. at home they were fought, for from abroad, and a man was not ashamed to.confpire in some measure, with so reigns against his own country. THE unhappy situation of a seemingly free Fate, kept up that slavish disposition, which degrades most of the European nations; they gloried in their chains, when they beheld the sufferings of a people who had shaken off their's, None would be convinced that the Swedes had gone from' one extreme to another; that to avoid the mischiefs of arbitrary power, they had fallen into the confusions of anarchy. The laws had not provided means to reconcile the private rights of.individuals with thole of society, and the prerogatives it .ought.to enjoy for the common safety of its members. IN that fatal crisis, it was expedient for the Swedes to intrust the phantom of a king, of their own creation, with a.,power sufficient to inquire into the abuses of the state, and find out proper remedies for it. This is the greatest at of sovereignty a people can exercise.; and it is not Iqfing their liberty to commit it to the custody of guardian in whom they can confide, whiles they watch ever the use he makes of the power delegated to him. SuCH resolution would have raised the Swedes to the highest pitch of glory and happiness, and given the worldabigh opinion of their understanding and wis dom; whereas by declining so necessary a measure, they have compelled the sovereign to seize upon the supreme authority. He now reigns upon his own terms, and his subjects heave no other rights left, but what his moderation would not sussex him to strip them of.,THIs event is too recent to allow us to entertain our readers with an account of it; posterity must be left to judge of it. Let us now inquire into the connections, formed in India by the King of Prcuia.,3 Thee
B O i K THIS prince, in his younger years, wisely preferred,V- the advantage of treasuring up knowledge, to the usual The king's pleasures of his age, and the luxurious idleness of courts. Pru'aa An intercourse with the greatest men of his times joined Eat Idea to his spirit of observation, insensibly ripened his genius ~rnzd. which was naturally alive, and eager for improvement. Chaait < Neither flattery nor opposition could ever interrupt his prince. deep reflexion. He formed the plan of his future con Fate of his c.rbl:Th- due and reign, in the earlier part of his life. It was met. foretold on his accession to the crown, that his minifiers,would be no more than his secretaries; the managers of his finances no more than his clerks; and his generals no more than his aids de camp. Some lucky circum Lances afforded him an opportunity of displaying to the whole worlds the talents he had acquired in retirement. With a quickness peculiar to himself, Frederick disco veering at once, and pursuing his real interests, attacked a power by which his ancestors had been held in avery. He obtained a victory in five engagements against that power, deprived of its best provinces and concluded a peace with the same wisdom that he had begun the war. THOUGH his combats were at an end, yet he did not remain inactive. He aspired to gain the admiration of those very people, whom he had struck with terror. He collected all the arts about him, to give an additional lustre to his name. He reformed the abuses in the courts of judicature, and dictated himself the wisest laws. A plain and invariable order was established in every' part of the administration. As he was convinced that the authority of a sovereign, is a common benefit to all his subjects, a protection which they are all equally en titled to, he gave to every man the liberty of approach ing his person, and of writing to him; Every instant of his life was devoted to the welfare of his people; his very amusements were. made useful to them. His,V,-.'. itlln
Writings on hiftfry;"ifibrality and politics abounded with B o o K practical truths. 'Evehn'ihs poetry Was full of profound v. and intiriive ideas. He Was considering of the means tf'eniiching his dominions, when some fortunate event put hin in possession of East Friesland in the year 1744; EMnDEs, the capital of this little province, was rec toned two centuries ago, one of the best ports in Eu rope. The English compelled to abandon Antwerp, had made it the centre of their connections with the continent; The Dutch had long attempted, and in vain, to appropriate it themselves, till it excited their jealousy to such a pitch that they even endeavoured to fill up the port; It was in every refpea fit to become the staples a great trade; The distance of this little toutihry frown the bulk of the Prussian forces, might be intended with some 'ihcbnvehieneesl but Frederick was in hopes that the terror of his name would keep the maritime powers in awe; In this persuasion, he established an East India company at Embden in i750. THE capital for this new society was 3,goo,ooo livres k1 chiefly subscribed. by the English and Dutch, notwithstanding the severe prohibitions of their govern ments. They were allured by the unlimited freedom they were to enjoys by paying three 'per cent. to the so foreign upon every sale they (hould make. The event did not answer their expectation; fix ships sent successively to China, brought to the owners no more this their bare capital, and a profit of ten per cent. in even years. Another company, formed soon after in the same place for Bengali was till more unsuccessful. They never attempted but two expeditions, and all they have for it, is a law suit, which probably will be an endlessly Ii 6 5. ye. II D.
B o o K one. At the breaking out of the last war, both thefts. V , companies were annihilated this has been the only check the king of Prussia's greatness has ever received. We know how difficult it is to judge of the merit of contemporaries: because they are not at a sufficient distance. Princes are of all men, those we can least hope to be acquainted with. Same seldom speaks of them dispassionately. We commonly judge of them upon the reports of servile flattery, or un just envy. The bus of the many interests and opinions that are moving and shifting around them, confounds or suspends the judgment of the wiser men. YET if we might be allowed to pronounce from a multitude of fats connected together, we should say of Frederick, that he was able to extricate himself from the plots of all Europe combined against him; that te the greatness and boldness of his enterprizes, he joined the most impenetrable secresy in the execution of them; that he brought on, a total change in the art of war, 'Which before his time, was thought to have attained it highest degree of perfection; that he shewed a fortitude scarcely to be paralleled in history; that he turned hi; very mistakes to better advantage, than others do their success; that he struck all the world dumb with alio. punishment, or made every tongue break out in admira tion, and relieved as much lustre upon his nation, a! other nations reflect upon their sovereign. TRIS prince always appears formidable. The opinion he has given of his abilities; the indelible re membrane of his actions; an annual revenue of fe vent millions ; a treasure of more than two hundred m an army of a hundred and fourscore thousand men: al this must secure his tranquility. Unfortunately it is nol so beneficial to his subjects as it was formerly. He fili,,oc62,oo5L " I,75o,oooL . ' * ~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,.Wva!
leaves the management of the coin to the Jews, who B O O' K have thrown It into the greatest confusion. He has done v.' nothing for the relief of the richest merchants in his do " - ~ minions, who have been ruined by his operations. He has taken the most considerable manufactures into his own hands. His dominions are full of monopolies, which are the bane of all industry. His people, who idolized him, have been given up to a let of foreign plunderers. This conduct has occasioned such distrust, both at home and abroad, that we may venture to as firm, that all endeavours to restore the Embden com any will prove ineffectual. Happy would it have been for his subjects and for all Europe, had this martial prince deserved the appellation of a patriot king, and suffered those numberless heaps which lie rusting in his coffers to circulate in the nation, and invigorate the body politic. LET US next take a survey of the trade to the Philip Settlement pine islands, so often attempted by Spain, and with so of the spa; little success, The Philippines, formerly known by Philippine the name of Manillass, form an immense Archipelago to islands the east of Alla. The mountains in these islands are peopled with savages who seem to be the oldest inhabitants of the country. There appears to be some analogy between their language and that of Malabar, whence it has been suspected that they might possibly have sprung from that pleasant region of India. They lead quite an animal life, have. ho fettled habitation, and feed upon the fruits and roots they find in the woods; and when they have exhausted one citric, they go and devour another. All endeavours to tame them have proved in effectual, because it is the must difficult thing in the world to subdue a wandering nation. THE plains from which they have been driven, have been successively inhabited by colonies from Siam, Su. mara, Borneo, Macassar, Malacca, the Moluccas and,D 2 Arabis
B o K Arabia. The manners, religion, and government of,Vy these foreign colonists, evidently distinguish their several,origins.,MAGELLAN was the first European who discovered there islands. Upon some discontent, he left Portugal, his native country, and entered into the service of the emperor Charles V; and passing the streights that now bear his name, he arrived at the Manillass in 1521. He unfortunately died there, but probably this would not have prevented the good consequences of his voyage, had they not been basted by the following occur tences.,IN the fifteenth century, whilst the Portuguese were engaged in discovering the East Indies, and engrossing the spice trade, and those manufactures which had al ways been the delight of civilized nations, the Spaniards, by the discovery of America, were securing greater treasures than ever the mind of man had thought of covet ing. Though both nations were pursuing their respective views of aggrandizement in far distant regions, it was not impossible that they might meet; and their mu tuas antipathy would have made such an event dance tous. To prevent it, Pope Alexander VI. fixed their respective claims in 1493, in consequence of that uni versal and ridiculous power, which the pontiff. had as. fumed for several centuries, and which the idolatrous ignorance of two superstitious nations fill kept up, thai they might associate heaven to their avarice. He gave to Spain all the countries that should be discovered tc the weft of a meridian taken a hundred leagues from th( Azores, and to Portugal whatever land they might con quer to the east of that meridian. In process of time the two powers agreed to remove the line of separation two hundred and fifty leagues farther to the weft, as; means of securing their tranquility. The court of Rome was not efficiently acquainted with the theory of thi,earth
earth, to know that as the Spaniards advanced to the B o o K west, and the Portuguese to the east, they must meet at lilt. Magellan's expedition evinced this truth. THE Portuguese, who though seamen themselves had no notion that it was possible to fail to the Indies any other way than by the Cape of Good Hope, were greatly surprized to see the Spaniards come thither by the south sea. They were apprehensive for the Mo lucca, upon which their rivals pretended to have a claim, as likewise upon the Manillassss. The court of Lisbon was determined at any rate not to part with the spice trade. However, before they ventured to quarrel with the only power, whose naval strength was then formidable, they thought it advisable to try the method of negociation. They succeeded better than they ex pealed. Charles V, who was frequently in want of money to carry on his expeditions, consented, for the sum of 3,402,ooo livres", to suspend the armaments against the Moluccas, till the respective claims could be adjusted, He even engaged, in case the decision was favourable, not to make any advantage of it till he had paid the money he had received. After this accommo. dation, the Spanifh monarch was so intent upon his ag aggrandizement in Europe and America, that he lost fight of the East Indies, IN 1564, Philip II. resumed the project of conquer ing the Manillassss. The execution was committed to Michael Lopez de l'Egafpe. He gained a solid footing at Luconia, the chief of those islands, and laid the foundation of some colonies in the adjacent islands, particularly in that of Sibi, where Magellan had landed. His successors would probably have finished the conquest of this archipelago, if they had been better supported, or even if they had not been under a necessity of employ-,D .4,6a;l. D ^1.
i o o K ing the little affiance they had, in defending the Pore tuguefe in the Moluccas. Dutch patience got the bet-ter of those weak, tardy and insincere efforts. They did but protract the loss of those rich possessions, and left the Castilian power over the Manillass, which then began to be called Philippines, in a very languid condition, as it has continued ever since. P-int - IN these islands, the number of Spaniards does not flare of the Philippine exceed three thousand: there are three times as many,Mestees. It is the business of both together to keep in subjection one million three hundred and sixty odd thousand Indians, who have been subdued, as appeared by the account taken in 1752. Most of them are Chris trans, and all pay a tribute of two livres 13 fous . They are dispersed in nine islands, and distributed into twenty departments, twelve of which are in the island of Luconia. The capital, which at all times was called Manillass, is situated at the mouth of a large river, at the bottom of a bay which is thirty leagues in circumference L'Egafpe thought this a fit place to be the center of the Fate he was about to found, and accordingly made it the feat of government and the center of trade. Gomez Perez de las Manignas inclosed it with walls, and built fort St. James in Ceo. As this harbour will admit none but small ships, it was afterwards found ex pediment to fortify Cavite, which is distant but three leagues, and is now the harbour of Manillass. It is fe circular, and the ships are on all sides sheltered from the south winds, but exposed to the northern basis, un less they keep very close to the shore. Three or foul hundred Indians were formerly employed in the docks, but they have been so much increased within these few years, that men of war are now built there fox Europe. .iG 7s- 3e,-Ts -w , Très
THE colony is under a governor, whofeauthority lasts B o o K. eight years, but is subordinate to the viceroy of Mexico. V' He commands the army, disposes of all civil and military employments, and may give lands to the soldiers, and even erect them into fiefs. This power, though somewhat ballanced by the influence, which the clergy and the inquisition assume in all the Spanish settlements abroad, has been found so dangerous, that many expedients have been'deviled to check its exorbitance. The best of there expedients, is that by which it is decreed that the memory of a governor who dies in office shall be prosecuted, and that when a governor is recalled, he shall not depart till his administration has been in quire into. Every private man is at liberty to complain and if he has suffered any wrong, he is to be indemnified at the cost of the delinquent, who is like wise condemned to pay a fine to the sovereign, for hav ing brought an odium upon him. When this wise in situation was made, it was observed with such severity, that when many and heavy accusations were laid to the charge of the governor, he was imprisoned. Several died under confinement, and others were released only to un tergo severe punishments. But corruption has since in sinuated itself, and the person who succeeds, is com monty determined by considerable bribes, or on account of the extortions he himself intends to practice, to pal. hate those of his predecessor. THIS collusion has brought on a fettled system of op. pression. Arbitrary taxes have been levied; the public revenue has beep lost in the hands that were appointed to collect it; extravagant duties have made trade degenerate into smuggling; the farmer has been compelled to lay up his crops in the magazines of the government; and some governors have carried their tyranny to such atrocious lengths, as to limit the quantity of corn that the fields were to produce, and to oblige the farmers told 4 ·- bring
B o K ing the little alliance they had, in defending the Por-,v tuguefe in the Moluccas. Dutch patience got the bet-ter of those weak, tardy and insincere efforts. They did but protract the loss of those rich possessions, and left the Castilian power over the Manillass, which then began to be called Philippines, in a very languid condition, as it has continued ever since. Prfeit IN there islands, the number of Spaniards does not .ate of the Philippine exceed three thousand: there are three times as many,i" Meshes. It is the business of both together to keep insurrection one million three hundred and sixty odd thousand Indians, who have been subdued, as appeared by the account taken in 1752. Most of them are Chris trans, and all pay a tribute of two livres 13 fous °. They are dispersed in nine islands, and distributed into twenty departments, twelve of which are in the island of Luconia. The capital, which at all times was called Manillass, is situated at the mouth of a large river, at the bottom of a bay which is thirty leagues in circumference L'Egafpe thought this a fit place to be the center of the slate he was about to found, and accordingly made it the feat of government and the center of trade. Gomez Perez de las Manignas inclosed it with walls, and built fort St. James in Ice. As this harbour will admit none but small ships, it was afterwards found ex pediment to fortify Cavite, which is distant but three leagues, and is now the harbour of Manillass. It is fe circular, and the ships are on all sides sheltered from the south winds, but exposed to the northern blasts, un less they keep very close to the shore. Three or four hundred Indians were formerly employed in the docks, but they have been so much increased within there few years, that men of war are now built there for Europe. "J? D ~. e ,tithe
colony is under a governor, whofeauthority lasts B O O K eight years, but is subordinate to the viceroy of Mexico. v. He commands the army, disposes of all civil and military employments, and may give lands to the soldiers, and even erect them into fiefs. This power, though somewhat ballanced by the influence, which the clergy and the inquisition assume in all the Spanish settlements abroad, has been found so dangerous, that many expedients have been'devifed to check its exorbitance. The befit of these expedients, is that by which it is decreed that the memory of a governor who dies in office shall be prosecuted, and that when a governor is recalled, he shall not depart till his administration has been in quire into. Every private man is at liberty to com plain, and if he has suffered any wrong, he is to be indemnified at the cost of the delinquent, who is likewise condemned to pay a fine to the sovereign, for hav ing brought an odium upon him. When this wise in situation was made, it was observed with such severity, that when many and heavy accusations were laid to the charge of the governor, he was imprisoned. Several died under confinement, and others were released only to un tergo revere punishments. But corruption has since in' sinuated itself, and the person who succeeds, is com monty determined by considerable bribes, or on account of the extortions he himself intends to practice, to pal hate those of his predecessor. THIS collusion has brought on a fettled system of op. pression. Arbitrary taxes have been levied; the public revenue has been lost in the hands that were appointed to collect it; extravagant duties have made trade degenerate into smuggling; the farmer has been compelled to lay up his crops in the magazines of the government; and some governors have carried their tyranny to such atrocious lengths, as to limit the quantity of corn that the fields were to produce, and to oblige the farmers to,D4 bring
B D O K bring it to the treasury, to be. paid only at the time,and in the manner their oppressive masters should think proper. This tyranny has determined vast numbers of Indians to forsake the Philippines, or to take refuge in the inaccessible parts of those islands. Several millions are said to have perished through ill usage, and it is im possible to guess at the numbers whose very existence has been prevented by the want of culture, and consequently of food. The few who have escaped all there calamities have fought for safety in obscurity and want. The en devours of some honest governors, within the space of two centuries, to flop the progress of such barbarities, have proved ineffectual, because the abuses were too inveterate to yield to a transient and subordinate authority. No thing short of the supreme power of the court of Ma did could steer the torrent of universal rapaciousness i but this only method has never been put in practice. This scandalous indifference is the true cause why the Philippines have never been civilized, and have neither subordination nor industry. Their name would scarcely be known, were it not for their connections with Mexico.,THoSE connexions, which subsist ever since the first settlement of the Spaniards in the Eat and Weft Indies, are nothing more than the conveying of the produce and merchandize of Asia to America by the south sea. Not one of the articles that constitute those rich cargoes, are the produce either of the ground or of the manufactures of those islands. Their cinnamon is brought from Batavia The Chinese bring them silks, and the English or the French supply them with white linen, and printed callicoes from Bengal and Coromandel. All the eastern nations may fail there openly, but the European must conceal their flag. They would not be admitted with out this precaution, which however is but a vain cere mony. From Whatever port the goods are sent, they,mud
must be landed before the departure of the galleons. If B o o I they should arrive later, they could not be disposed of, V. or muff be sold at a losing price, to merchants who must flow them in warehouses till the next voyage. The payments are made in cochineal and Mexican piastres, and partly in cowries, which are not current in Africa; but will pass every where on the banks of the Ganges. THEY seldom deal directly with the Spaniards. Most of them are so disgusted with the fatigues of trade, that they place all their money in the hands of the Chinese, who enrich themselves at their cost. If, as the court of Madrid had ordered in t750, these agents, the most native in Asia, had been compelled to be bap tied or to quit the country, all business would have been thrown into the utmost confution.,SOME politicians think this plan would not be de oriental, an opinion that has been long entertained, The Philippines had but just opened a communication with America, when the Spaniards thought ps giving them up, as being prejudicial to the interest of the mo ther country. Philip II. and his successors constantly rejected that proposal, which was often renewed. The city of Seville in i731, and that of Cadiz in 1733, en pertained more rational notions. Both there cities imagined and it is rather surprising that the idea did not occur sooner, that it would be advantageous to the Spaniards to be directly concerned in the trade to Asia, and that the possessions they had in those parts should be made the center of their operations. In vain was it urged that as India affords silks and cottons superior to those of Eu rope, both for workmanship and colouring, and chiefly for cheapness, the national manufactures would be ruined. This objection might have its weight in some nations, but appeared altogether frivolous in this case, considering the situation of Spain.,THE
1.O o K; THE Spaniards indeed use none but foreign stuffs and,, linen either for wearing apparel or furniture. Those,continual demands must necessarily increase tht industry, the .wealth, the population and the strength of their neighbours, who avail themselves of these advantages, to keep that nation which supplies them in a state of de sentence. It would surely be aping with more wisdom and dignity, were they to adopt the Indian manufactures. They would be preferable, both in point of ceconorny and elegance, and would lessen that preponderance which mush prove fatal to them in the end. what the THE inconveniences attending new undertakings are Philippines pi·ght readily removed. The islands which Spain possesses are de in in situated between Japan, China, Cochinchina, Siam, Born Ind. neo, Macassar and the Moluccas, and are within reaches forming-connexions with those several states. If they are too far distant from Malabar, Coromandel and Ben gal, effectually to protect any settlements that might be formed there; on the other hand, they are so near several countries which the Europeans frequent, that they could . early keep off their enemies from them in time of war. Besides, :s they are so far from the continent, they have no neighbours to ravage their lands, or to interfere in their concerns. This distance however does not prevent them from being sure of subsistence at home. It is true the Philippines are subject to frequent earthquakes, and they haIe incessant rains from July to November; but all this is no obstacle to the fertility of the ground. No country in Asia abounds more with fish, corn, fruits, Trgctaies, cattle, sago, cocoa trees, and esculent plants of ail kinds these islands afford even some articles fit for trade from India to India, such as ebony, tobacco, wax, those bird's nests that are in such request, pitch and tar, a kind of white hemp fit for ropes and fails, plenty of eskcelcnt timber; cowries, pearls, and sugar which,7may
may be cultivated to any quantity, and lastly gold. B o K There are incontestable proofs that in the earliest times, . the Spaniards sent over to America large quantities of gold found by the natives of this country in the rivers. If the quantity they now pick up does not exceed twelve hundred weight in a year, this must be imputed to the tyranny of the Spaniards, who will not sussex them to reap the benefit of their own industry. A reasonable moderation would induce them to resume there la. hours, and to apply to others frill more beneficial to Spain. THEN the colony will produce for exportation to Europe, alum, buffalo skins, cassia, the Saba Sanf7i Jgnatii, a useful drug in physic, indigo, cocoa which has been brought thither from Mexico, and succeeds very well, woods for dying, cotton, and bastard cinnamon which will perhaps be improved, and which the Chinese were satisfied with, such as it was, before they frequented Batavia. Some travellers affirm that the island of Mindanao, where it grows, formerly produced clove trees also. They add that the sovereign of the island ordered them to be rooted up, saying he had better do it himself than be, compelled to it by the Dutch. This anecdote looks very suspicious. What is certain is, that the vicinity of the Moluccas affords great facilities for procuring the trees that bear nutmeg and cloves. THE foreign markets will furnish Spain with silks, callicoes, and other articles of the produce of Asia for their own consumption, and will sell them cheaper to the Spaniards than to their competitors. All other nations in Europe make use of money drawn from America to trade to India. Before this money can reach the place of its destination, it has paid heavy duties, has taken a prodigious compass, and has been exposed to great tissues; whereas the Spaniards, by sending it direcly,froe
s o a from America to the Philippines, would save duties,,V. time and insurance; so that by furnishing the fame quantity of specie as the rival nations, they would in fa rake their purchases at a cheaper rate. IN process of time there would even be no necessity of carrying so much ready money from place to place, if they knew how to improve those islands to the degree :hey are capable of. For this purpose they should recal to their sea-ports the nations who frequented them before they were invaded by the Spaniards, and obliterate the memory of the forty thousand subjects of China, who were fettled in the Philippines, and were almost all in humanly butchered, because they would not tamely submit to the horrid yoke that was laid on them. The Chinese would then desert Batavia, which is too far off, and cause arts and agriculture to revive in these islands. They would loon be followed by many free traders of Europe, who are dispersed in various parts of India, and consider themselves as yi&ims to the monopoly of their respective companies, The natives, excited to labour by the advantages inseparable from such a competition, would be roused from their indolence. They would be fond of the government that would study to promote their happiness; would gladly submit to its laws, and in a short time would become intirely Spaniards. If our conjectures are not vain, such a colony would be more profitable than a mere passive settlement, which devours part of the treasures of America, Such a revolution may easily be brought about, and must infallibly bo hastened by establishing a great freedom of trade, 4 civil and religious liberty unlimited, and a complete security for the property of individuals.,THas can never be the work of an exclusive com any. For these two centuries past, since the Euro. means have frequented the seas of Asia, they have never been animated by a truly laudable spirit, In vain have,society,
society, morality and politics been improved amongst Bn o us, those distant countries have seen nothing but our v. rapaciousness, our restlessness and our tyranny. The mischief we have done to other parts of the world has sometimes been compensated by the knowledge we have imparted to them, and the wise institutions we have established amongst them: but the Indians have con tinged to groan under their former darkness and def potion, and we have taken no pains to rescue them from those dreadful calamities. Had the several go governments directed the steps of their free traders, it is probable that the love of glory would have been united to a passion for riches, and that some nations would have made attempts fit to render their names illustrious. Such noble and pure intentions could never be pursued by any company of merchants. Confined within the narrow limits of present profit, they have never considered the happiness of the people with whom they traded, and no one has ever taken offence at a behaviour which could not but be expected. How much would it redound to the honour of Spain, from whom perhaps no great things are expected, to shew a sensibility for the interests of mankind, and to endeavour to promote them! That nation now begins to shake off the fetters of prejudice, which have kept it in a state of infancy, notwithstanding its natural strength. Its fubjeas are not yet degraded and corrupted by the contagion of riches, from which they have been pre served by their own indolence and the stupidity of their government. These people must necessarily be inclined to good; they may know it, and no doubt would exercise it, having all the means of accomplishing it in the possessions their conquests have given them, in the richest countries of the universe. Their ships, destined to waft felicity to the remotest parts of Asia, would fail from their several ports, meet at the Canary islands, or fepa-,7 - lately
I o o g lately pursue their respective voyages, as it suited theme. best. They might return from India by the Cape osgood Hope; but would go thither by the South Sea, where the sale of their cargoes would greatly increase their capitals. This advantage would secure to them a superiority over their competitors, who fail with false bills of lading, seldom carrying any thing but money. They would find refreshments up the river Plata if they should be in want of them. Those who were in a con edition to wait longer, would only put into Chili, or even go en to the island of Juan Fernandez,,THIS delightful island, which takes its name from a Spaniard to whom it had been given, and who took a dislike to it after he had lived there fume considerable time, lies at I o leagues distance from the continent of Chili. Its greatest length is but about five leagues, and the breadth not quite two. In so small a com pals, and very uneven ground, are found a clear sky, a pure air, excellent water, and all the vegetables that are a specific against the scurvy. It has appeared from experience that all forts of European and American corn, fruit and quadrupeds will thrive there to admiration The coasts abound with fish; and to add to all there advantages, there is a good harbour, where ships are sheltered from every wind but the north, and that never blows hard enough to endanger them in the leat.,THESE conveniences have induced all the pirates who have infested the coasts of Peru to put in at Juan Ser nantes. Anson, who went to the South Seas, with more extensive projects, found there a comfortable and safe asylum The Spaniards, convinced at last that the pre caution they had taken to destroy the cattle they had left there, is insufficient to keep off their enemies, intend to build a fort on the island. That military post will become a useful settlement, if the Court of Madrid,wit
will but attend to her own interest. It is needless to en B o o ter into farther particulars. It is evident how much v. the plan we have hinted at would conduce to the ad vantage of trade and navigation, and to the greatness of Spain. The connections that Russia carries on by land with China, can never acquire the same degree of importance between those two great empires lies an immense Generals space, known in the earliest ages by the name of Scy- 'tone this, and since by that of Tartary, taken in its full extent. This region is bounded to the weft by the Caspian sea and Persia to the south by Persia, In doftan, the kingdoms of Aracan and Ava, China, and Core; to the east by the eastern sea; and to the north by the frozen ocean. One part of these vast desarts is subject to the Chinese empire; another is under, the dominion of Russia; the third is independent, and is called Kharifm, and Greater and Lesser Bucharia. THE inhabitants of those famous regions have al ways lived by hunting and fishing, and upon the milk of their flocks, and have ever been averse to cities and a sedentary life, and equally so to husbandry. Their origin which has been lost in their deserts, and in their wandering way of life, is not more ancient than their customs. They have gone on doing as their fore fathers did, and if we trace them back from generation to generation, we shall find that the present Tartars are just like those of the earliest ages these people, for the most part, have long been followers of the great Lama, who resides at Putali, a town situated in a country which partly belongs to .Tartary, and partly'to India. This extensive region, where mountains rise above mountains, is called Boutan by the inhabitants ot Hindostan, Tangut by the Tar tars, Tfanli by the Chinese, Lassa by the Indians be yond the Ganges, and Tibet by the Europeans.,TH1S
t o0 K THIS religion appears from unquestionable monnm,,ments to be of above three thousand years standings and is founded on the existence of a supreme being, and the purest principles of morality. IT is said, the followers of that points believe him to be immortal, and to keep up the deceit, the deity never thews himself but to a few confidants that when he appears to receive the adorations of the people, it is always in a kind of tabernacle, where a dim light shews rather the shadow than the features of that liv ing god; that when he dies, another priest is substituted in his stead, as nearly of the same size and figure, as possible; and that by means of there precautions, the delusion is carried on, even on the very spot where this farce is aged; and much more in the minds of believers who are farther removed from the scene of action. A sagacious philosopher has lately dispelled this pre judice. It is true the great Lamas seldom shew them selves, the better to keep up that veneration they have inspired for their person and their mysteries; but they give audience to ambassadors, and admit princes who come to visit them. But if their person is seldom to be seen, except on some important occasions or on high festivals, their piAure is always in full view, be ing hung up over the doors of the temple at Putali.,WHAT has given rise to the fable of the immortality of the Lamas, is, that it is a tenet of their faith, that the holy spirit which has resided in one of there pontiff, im mediately upon his death, removes into the body of him who is duly elected to succeed him. This transmigration of the divine spirit is perfectly consonant to the doctrine of the metempsychosis, which has always been the standing system in those parts. THE religion of Lama made considerable progress i. early times. It was adopted in a large part of the,globe,
globe. It is professed all over Tibet and Alongalia; ; o O K,V. is almost universal in Greater and Lesser Bucharia, and J several provinces of Tartary, and has ode followers in the kingdom of Cassimere in the Indies, and in China. THIS is the only worship that car boast of such remote antiquity, without having received any mixture of other tenets. The religion of the Chinese has snore thai once been adulterated by the introduction bs foreign deities and superstitions, *which have crept in among the vulgar. The Jews have seen an end of their hierarchy, and their temple has beer demolished. Alexander and Molohammci did their utmost to extinguish the sacred fire of the Gaurs. Tamerlane and the Moguls have in a great pleasure impaired the worship of the god Brama in In dia. But neither time, fortune, nor men, could ever shake the divine power of the great Lamina. THIS stability and perpetuity must be pcct'liar to thoci religions that have fixed tcni.t, a w 'ell-regui:tcd ecclesiastical hierarchy, and a supreme head, vno by his authority fiipboits those tenets in their primitive slate, by condemning all new opinions, which pride might be tempted to introduce, and credulity to adopt. This Lamas themselves confess that they are no gods; but they pretend to represent ths divinity, ind to have re civet a power from heaven to decide ultimately on whatever relates to public worship. Their theocracy extends as fully to temporal as to spiritual matters; but they think it beneath them to meddle with profane con ceres, and always commit the administration of govern ment tc persons Whom they judge to be worthy of their confidence. This has successively occasioned the lots of several provinces of their vail dominions, which have fallen a prey to their governors. The great Lama, who formerly was absolute malter of all the Tibet, now possesses but a small part of it. VOL. II. E Tht
Bo o rK THE religious opinions of the Tartars have never V. enervated their valour. It was to oppose their inroads into China, that three hundred years before the christian ara, that famous wall was built, which extends from the river Strabo to the sea of Kamtfchatka; which is earthed up every where, and flanked in different parts with large towers, after the ancient manner of forti dying. Such a monument shews that there must have been at that time a prodigious population in the em pire: but at the same time it seems to indicate that there was a want of prowess and military skill. If the Chinese had been men of courage, they would them selves have attacked the roving tribes, or kept them in awe by well-disciplined armies; if they had been skilled in the art of war, they would have known that lines five hundred leagues long could not be defended in every part, and that if they were broken but in one place, all the rest of the fortifications would become useless. THE inroads indeed of the Tartars continued till the thirteenth century. At that period, the empire was conquered by those barbarians, under the command of Genghis-kan. That foreign scepter was not broken till after eighty-nine years, when it sell into the hands of an indolent prince, who was governed by women, and was a slave to his miniiters.,WHEN the Tartars were expelled from their conquests, they did not bring home the laws and government ol China. When they repassed the great wall, they re lapsed into barbarism, and lived in their desarts, in as uncivilized a manner as they had done before. How ever, joining with the few who had continued in their roving way of life, they formed several lords, which imper ceptibly became populous, and in process of time, in corporate into that of the Mantchous. Their union inspired them again with the project of invading,Chila,
China, which was torn with domestic dissentions. The B o o K malcontents were then so numerous, that they had no v. less than eight different armies, under the command of as many chiefs. In this confusion the Tartars, who had long ravaged the northern provinces of the empire, seized upon the capital in 1644, and soon after upon the. whole state. THIS revolution seemed rather to increase China, by the accession of a great part of Tartary, than to subdue it. Soon after, it was again enlarged by the submission of the Mogul Tartars, famous for having founded most of the thrones, in Asia, and in particular that of In dolman. THE conquerors submitted to the. laws of the people, they had conquered, and exchanged their own customs, and manners for those of their slaves. This has been alledged as a proof of the wisdom of the Chinese govern ment; but it seems to be no more than a natural consequence of this plain and simple principle, that the lesser number must yield to the greater. The Tartar, , in the most populous empire upon earth, were not one in ten thou sand; so that, to bring about a change of manners and government, one Tartar muff have prevailed over ten thousand Chinese, which is hardly possible in the nature of things. We have sufficient proofs of the excellency of the Chinese administration, without having recourse to this. Besides, those Tartars had no fettled customs and manners; no wonder then if they adopted the institutions they found in China, whether good or bad. This revolution was scarce completed, when the empire was threatened with a new enemy, who might become a dan serous one. THE Ruffians, who towards the latter end of the fix Depute of,the Sixteenth century, had conquered the uncultivated plains a tandChi- of Siberia, had penetrated through a series of desarts as lei' lar>,E 2 far
Bo o0 K far as the river Amour, which brought them to the '2. ' eastern sea, and as far as Helena, which brought them near the confines of China, a country so highly extolled for its riches. THE Chinese were apprehensive that the incursions of the Ruffians might in time give them some disturbance, and they erected sone forts to put a flop to this am bilious enemy. Warm contentions then began be tween the two nations concerning their boundaries, Skirmishes were frequent between the hunting par ties, and an open war was daily expected. Ver) fortunately the plenipotentiaries of both courts fount means to reconcile matters in 1689; the limits wen fixed at the river Kerbechi, near the place of segovia tion; 300 leagues from the great wall. This was th, first treaty the Chinese had ever been concerned in, fine the foundation of their empire. They granted the Rus sans the liberty of sending a caravan every year t, Pekin, where strangers had never been allowed to come but were kept off with mysterious precautions. It wa easily perceived that the Tartars, though they conforme to the manners and government of the Chinese, di not adopt their political maxims-the Rumi- THIs condescension did not inspire the Ruffians wit .,er.'nd moderation. They persisted in their usurpations, an .r.nto built a city, thirty leagues beyond the stipulated remits, which they called Albaflinfkoi. The Chine having in vain complained of this encroachment, the at last determined to do themselves justice in 17i As the Czar was engaged in a war on the Baltic and could not spare troops to defend the extremity of Tartary, the place was taken after a three yea siege the court of Petersburg was prudent enough n to give way to a fruitless resentment. They font,milnif
minister to Pekin in 1719, with intrusions to revive B o o I the trade that had been interrupted by the late ditfur- V. dances. The negociation succeeded; but the caravan of 1721 having behaved with no more prudence than the former, it was agreed that for the future the two na tions should have no dealings together but upon the frontiers. Fresh misunderstandings have again inter rusted this intercourse, and they now carry on only a contraband trade; even that is but in a languid state, but it is thought the Ruffians are endeavouring to revive it. THE advantages they will derive from it, are sufficient to induce them to surmount all the difficulties inseparable from such an undertaking. They are the only nation in Europe that can trade with the Chinese without money, and barter their own commodities for those of China. With their rich and choice furs, they will always pur chafe the things with which the Chinese can furnish great part of the globe. Independent of the articles they want for their own consumption, they may deal largely in tea and rhubarb. It would be both prudent and easy to re-export these two articles, because when brought over by land, they will preserve a degree of perfection which they must lose in a voyage over those immense seas they must cross, to come from such remote parts of Asia. But to turn this trade to any advantage, it must be conducted upon other principles than have hitherto been followed formerly a caravan went every year from Petersburg traversed immense desarts, and was met on the frontiers of China by some hundreds of soldiers, who escorted it to the capital of the empire. There, all who belonged to it were shut up in a caravan fera, to wait till the merchants should chuse to come and offer them the refuse of their warehouses. Their affairs being thus,E 3 finished,
- o o K :finished, they returned to their own country, and got to-petersburg three years after their departure.,IN the ordinary course of things, the bad goods :brought by the caravan would have been worth very little; but as this trade was carried on for the court, and the things were sold under the eye of the sovereign, the meanest objects acquired a value. Being admitted to this kind of fair, was a privilege which the monarch seldom granted but to his favourites. All were desirous of approving themselves worthy of this distension, and the way to succeed was by over-bidding each other with out discretion, as each was ambitious that his name should appear upon the lift of the buyers. Notwithstanding this infamous emulation, what was put up to sale was so trifling, that the produce, deducting the consumption of the court, never amounted to ioo,ooo'crowns P. To establish this trade upon a more respectable footing, it should be left to private persons, who underhand it bet ter, and who would take more pains about it. rroces of THIS would have been the right method, if the che Rfa scheme of Peter the Great could have been brought to trade to the bear, which was, to have opened a communication be Indies,,ir.ounh in tween Siberia and India by independent Tartary. That dtren great prince, who was always full of projects, wanted,to form that connexion by means of the Birth, which waters the Turkestan, and in 1719, he sent 25co men to seize upon the mouth of that river.,'THERE was no such river to be found ; its waters had been turned off, and conveyed through several channels to the lake Tall. This had been done by the Beck Tartars, who had taken umbrage at the repeated observations they had seen making. The Ruffians determined therefore to return to African, whence they came. Sheep 13,Ic5 1. 5 court
court of Peterfburgh was obliged to relinquish the pro B o o K sea, and be content with the intercourse already formed V. with India by the Caspian sea. SUCH was, in the remotest ages, the way in which the Intercourse,between north and south communicated with each other. The brute,' nd regions bordering upon that immense lake, which are now the Indics,by the Caf very poor, very destitute of inhabitants, and in a very plan sea. rude state, exhibit to an attentive eye evident and undeniable tokens of former grandeur. Coins of the ancient Caliphs are daily discovered there. These monuments, with others equally authentic, would seem to favour the story of rome Indians having been shipwrecked on the coasts of the Elbe in the reign of Augustus, which has al ways been looked upon as fabulous, notwithstanding the concurrent testimony of cotemporary writers who re lated the faa. It is inconceivable how any inhabitants of India could fail on the Germanic seas; but, as Vol taire observes, it was not more wonderful to see an In tian trading in the northern countries, than to see a Roman make his way into India through Arabia. The Indians went into Persia, where they embarked on the sea of Hispania, failed up the Wolga, penetrated into Permit by the Kama, and from thence might go and embark on the northern sea or on the Baltic. There have been men of enterprising genius in all ages. WHATEVER may be thought of these conjectures, the English had no sooner discovered Archangel about the middle of the sixteenth century, and fettled a com mere with Russia, than they conceived a projet of open ing a way into Persia, by the Wolga and the Caspian sea, which would be much easier and (porter than that of the Portuguese, who were obliged to fail round Africa and part of Asia, to get into the gulph of Persia. A further inducement to attempt it was, that the nor there parts of Persia, bordering upon the Caspian sea, produce much richer commodities than the southerners 4 The
B o 0 K The fits of Chairman, Mvazanderan, and more efpe-,V i ciaiiy Milan, are the best in all the east, and mighl,serve to ellablili excellent manufactures. But the trade of the English was not yet sufficiently confirmed to en counter the difficulties that nuit attend so vast and i. complicated an undertaking.,So;E i years after, a duke of Holbein, whq had ella 1r'hilcd some silk manufactures in his dominions, was nol deterred by these difficulties. He wanted to get the rai i k from Persia, and sent ambassadors thither, who loll their lives on the Caspian tfa.,WVHESN the French were convinced of the influence of trade on the political balance of Europe, they alec wished to procure Persian silks by way of Russia; bus heir fatal passion for conquest r.-de them forget this project, as will as many others that had been fuggeflcc 'oy men of understanding, for the welfare of that great; nation peter I, guided by his own genius, his own experience and the informations of foreigners, could nol but be sensible at last, that his subjects were the people who ought to enrich themselves by fetching away th( produce of Persia, and in time that of India. Accord singly in 1722, at the first beginning of the commotion! that have overturned the empire of the Sophia, thai great prince seized upon the fertile regions bordering or the Caspian sea. The heat of the climate, the damp, ness of the soil, and the malignancy of the air, destroyed the troops that were left to defend those conquests Russia however did rot resolve to relinquish her usurped provinces, till the year 1,36, when the victorious! Kouli-;kan, having conquered the Turks, was enable; to take them by force. THE court of Petersburg thought no more of an commerce with that part of the world, when an Eng: 'ifhman of the name of Elton laid a scheme in 174r, . . . , . .
for procuring that trade to his nation. This enterprise o o rK sing man was in the service of Russia: his proposal was V. to convey English woollen cloths by way of the Wolga and the Caspian sea, to Pera, to the north of Hindostan, and to the greatest part of Tartary. In consequence of his operations, he was to bring home in exchange, gold, and such commodities as the Armenians sold at an extra vacant price, being masters of all the inland trade of Asia. This plan was warmly adopted by the English company in Muscovy, and favoured by the Ruffian mi niflry. BuT the English adventurer had scarce entered upon this plan, when Kouli-kan, who wanted bold and ac time men to second his ambition, found means to decoy him into his service, and by his assistance to make him self master of the Caspian sea. The court of Peterfburgh, exasperated at this treachery, revoked in 1746 all the privileges they had granted; but this was a poor remedy for so great an evil. The untimely death of the Persian tyrant, was much more likely to quiet the minds of the people. THAT great revolution, which once more plunged the Sophy's dominions into a worse state of anarchy than ever, restored to the Ruffians the dominion over the Caspian Sea. This was a necessary preliminary to the opening of a trade with Persia and the Indies, but was not alone sufficient to ensure its success. The Arme nians made it next to impossible. An alive nation, ac customer to the eastern manners, in possession of large capitals, extremely frugal in their expences, who had connections of a long landing, entered into the mi nutefi details, and embraced the most comprehensive speculations : such a nation was not easily to be supplanted. Nor did the court of Peterfburgh expect it, but wisely determined to allure a colony of those crafty, laborious, and wealthy people to fettle at Astrachan. It,is
B o o K is through their hands that all goods coining from Asia,V. , to Russia over-land, always did and still do pass. This,importation is but small, and it will be long before it can considerably increase, unless orme way can be found out re-export the goods to Come foreign market. Convince the truth of this assertion, we need but take a cursory view of the present state of Russia. Snt: of te THIS empire, which, like all others, rose from small Rrmsan nmpi, and beginnings, is become in process of time the largest in !- means the world. Its extent from east to weft is 2200 leagues, t, make it lu;w. and from south to north about 800.,MANY of the members of this vast empire never had any government, and have none to this day. Those who by violence, or from particular circumstances are become the chief of the rest, have always been ac tufted by Asiatic principles, and have been oppressors or arbitrary tyrants. The only thing in which they have conformed to the customs of Europe, has been the institution of a peerage. THESE are undoubtedly the chief causes which have prevented the increase of the human race in that im mense country. By the survey taken in 1747, there ap feared but 6,646,390 persons who paid the poll tax; and all the males were included in the lift, from the infant to the oldest man. Supposing the number of women to be equal to that of men, there will appear toe I3,292,780 slaves in Russia. To this calculation nuit be added the orders of men in the empire who are exempt from paying this (hateful tax; the military who amount to 200,000 men; the nobility and clergy, who are supposed to amount to the like number; and the inhabitants of the Ukraine and Livonia, com pouted at 1,200,000. So that the whole population of Russia does not exceed 14,892,780 persons of both sexes.,IT
IT would be as needless as it is impossible, to number B o o K the people who rove about those vast desarts. As lords of V. Tartars, Siberians, Samnites, Laplanders and Optics, cannot contribute to the wealth, strength, or splendors a Pate, they are to be reckoned as nothing, or as very inconsiderable. THE population being frnall, the revenues of the empire cannot be considerable. When Peter I. came to the crown, the taxes brought in but twenty-five mil lions q; he increased them to sixty-five'. Since his death they have not greatly increased, and yet the people are linking under a burden that is above their strength, which is enervated by despotism. Ir is high time that Russia should think of a remedy against this want of population and wealth. The only effectual one is agriculture. It is to no purpose to en courage it in the northern provinces; nothing can thrive in those frozen desarts. The scattered inhabitants of that inhospitable climate will never have any thing for food and raiment, and to pay their tribute with, but birds, fill and wild beasts. FURTHER from the north, nature begins to wear a mil der aspen, and the country is more populous, and more capable of vegetation; yet all is languid throughout an immense territory, for want of hands and means. The soil only wants the encouragement and indulgence of a wise government, to enrich its inhabitants. The Ukraine deserves a particular attention. THAT spacious region, which has belonged to the Porte and to Poland, and is now a part of the Czar's dominions, is perhaps the mol: fruitful country in the known world. It supplies Russia with mot of her home consumption, and articles of trade; and yet they do not draw the twentieth part of what it might be made to produce. The Cossacks, who inhabited that coun-,I,cC93,75c t Z,$43,7.501.,try,
B .O K try, have almost all perished in fatal expeditions. Some,. attempts have been made to replace them by Ofliacs,,and Samnites, not considering that it was spoiling the breed to no purpose, to introduce a puny race of little deformed creatures amongst a hardy one of tall, tout, and resolute men. It would be very cafe and practicable to give encouragement to the Moldavian and WVala- chins to fettle there, as they profess the same religion as Russia, and consider it as the feat of the Greek empire. Nothing would be more conducive to cultivation than the working of the mines. Some are to be found in fe-eras provinces, but there is plenty of them in Siberia, though it is a low country, and the soil is moist and marshy. The iron that is dug out of these mines is better than in any other part of Russia, and equal to that of Sweden. This would employ a number of idle hands, and furnish excellent implements of husbandry for the use of wretched slaves, who are too often forced to dig a hard and stubborn soil with wooden tools. Si beria not only yields iron, but those precious metals which all men and all nations so eagerly covet. The silver mines near Argue have long been known, and others, both of silver and gold, have lately been disco vexed in the country of the Bankers. It would be belt for some nations to neglect and flop up these sources of riches; but that is not the case with Russia, where all the inland provinces are so poor, that they are scarce acquainted with money, that universal vehicle of trade. THE trade which the Ruffians have opened with China, Persia, Turkey and Poland, comfits almost en timely in furs, such as ermine, fables, white wolves and black foxes skins, which all come from Siberia. Some f-ins that arc remarkably fine, which have very long glossy hair, of a beautiful colour, or happen to hit the fancy of the buyer, sell at a most extravagant price. These connections
tions might become more considerable, and be extended B o o K to other objects. v. BUT the greatest demand for the produce of the country will always be on the side of the Baltic. It seldom passes through the hands of the Ruffian mer chants. They commonly want skill, flock, credit and liberty. The import and export of all commodities is translated by foreign houses. No country is so happily situated for extending its commerce. Almost all its rivers are navigable. Peter the Great brought art to the assistance of nature, and ordered canals to be cut to join those rivers together. The principal of them arc now finished ; some are not quite completed, and some are only planned. Such is the grand prose of joining the Caspian sea to the Euxine, by digging a canal from the Tanais to the Wolga. UNFORTUNATELY these means which render the circulation of all commodities so easy in the interior parts of Russia, and so much facilitate an intercourse with all parts of the globe, are made ufclcfs by those fetters which industry cannot shake off. 'IHE government have kept in their own hands the buying and selling of the moil valuable productions of the country ; and as long as this monopoly continues, the operations of trade will be unfair, and languid. The relinquishing of this destructive revenue would contribute to public prosperity, but that alone would not be sufficient, without the reduction of the army. WHEN Peter I. came to the crown, the military in Russia confined only of 40,000 Streets, undisciplined and ferocious men, who had no courage but against the people whom they oppressed, and against the sovereign whom they deposed or murdered at pleasure. This great prince discarded that seditious militia, and established
B o o K boiled an army, modelled after those of the other Rates. . in Europe.,NOTWITHSTANDING the goodness of its troops, Russia is of all the different powers, that which ought to be the most cautious of entering into a war. The desire of acquiring an influence in the affairs of Europe, should never tempt the Ruffians far from their own frontiers ; they could not act without subsidies, and it would be madness for a nation that has but fix persons to a league square, ever to think of selling their blood. Nor should they be excited to hostilities by the desire of enlarging their dominions, which arc already too extensive. Never will that empire reap the benefit of the labours of its reformer, and form a compact fate, or become an enlightened and flourishing nation, un less they renounce the rage of conquest, to apply solely to the peaceful arts. None of their neighbours can force them to depart from that salutary fyflem.,ON the north side, the empire is better guarded by the frozen sea, than it would be by squadrons and for tresses. To the east, a single battalion and two field pieces, would disperse all the lords of Tartars that should at tempt to molest them should Persia rise from its ruins, all efforts from that quarter would be lost in the Caspian sea, and in those immense desarts which separate that country from Russians the south, the Turks are now enfeebled, and the feat of war would be alike destructive to the conquered and to the conqueror. To the weft, the Ruffians have nothing to fear from the Poles, who never had any fortified towns, nor troops, nor revenue, nor government, and have hardly any territory left.,SWEDEN
SWEDEN has lost all that made her formidable, and B o o K has nothing left but the certainty of being stripped of v. Finland, whenever it shall suit the interest of the court of Petersburg. SHOULD the genius of Frederick, which now makes in the north a counterpoise to the forces of Muscovy, descend to his successors, it is not likely that the ambition of Brandenburg should ever turn towards Russia. Those monarchs could never venture an attack upon that empire, without turning their forces all towards Germany; and this would necessarily divide their strength in such a manner, that it could not at with efficacy. THE result of these discussions is, that it is for the true interest of Russia to reduce her land forces, and possibly the same might hold true with regard to her navy. THE (mall connections of that empire with the rest of Europe, were wholly carried on by land, when the English, in seeking a passage to the East Indies by the northern leas, discovered the port of Archangel. Sail ing up the Edwina, they came to Moscow, and there laid the foundation of a new trade. RUSSIA had as yet no other communication with her neighbours but by this port, when Peter I. undertook to invite the traders who frequent the white lea to come to the Baltic, as a means of procuring a more extensive and advantageous opportunity of disposing of the pro duce of his empire. His creative genius went farther still. He was ambitious of becoming a maritime power, and fixed his fleets at Cronstadt, which is a harbour to Petersburg. THE lea is not broad enough before the bason of the harbour. The ships that are coming in, are forcibly driven by the impetuosity of the Neva, upon the dan serous coasts of Finland. The way to it is through channel
B o o K channel so full of breakers, that they cannot be avoided. unless the weather is remarkably fine. The ships soon,rot in the harbour. The. sending out of the squadrons is greatly retarded by the ice. There is no getting out but by an easterly wind, and the westerly winds blow in those latitudes the greatest part of the summer. Another inconvenience is, that the dock yards are at Peters burg, from whence the ships cannot get to Cronstadt, without passing over a very dangerous flat, that lies in the middle of the river.,IF Peter I. had not had that partiality which great men have, as well as others, for their own creations, he might easily have been made sensible that Cronstadt and Petersburg are improper places for the naval forces of Russia, and that it is in vain to expect that art should force nature. He would have given the preference to Revel, which is much fitter for the purpose. Perhaps too, his own reflections would have led him to consider that the nature of his empire was not calculated for that species of power. RUSSIA has but few sea coasts; most of then are ino peopled ; and none will ever praise navigation, unless there should be a change of government. Where then would they find officers capable of commanding men of war,YET Peters. found means to for a navy. A pas sion which nothing could controul, made him surmount obstacles which were thought to be invincible; but it was with more shew than utility. If ever his successors are in earnest for the good of their empire, they will forego the vain glory of making a parade of their flag in distant latitudes, where they have no trade to pro ted, as theirs is all carried on upon their own coasts, and only by foreign merchants. When the Ruffians thus change their fyfterq, they will save the needless ex pence of thirty-fix or forty men of war, and be content,with
with their galleys, which are quite sufficient for their B o o R defence, and would even enable them to attack all the v. powers on the Baltic, if there should be occasion for it. THOSE galleys are of different rates : one are fitted for the use of the cavalry, but a greater number for that of the infantry. As the whole crew consists of soldiers, who are taught to handle the oar, their expeditions are never retarded, nor attended with any expence. They come to an anchor every night, and land where they are least expected. WHEN the landing is accomplished, the troops drat the galleys ashore, and intrench themselves in a body. Part of the army are left as a guard, and the rest disperse about the country that they intend to lay under contribution. When the expedition is over, they remark and repeat their devastations in other places. Ex prince has shewn how much may be done by there ar moments. THE changes we have suggested, arc indispensably necessary to put Russia in a flourishing condition; but this is not the only thing required. To insure the con finance of her prosperity, some stability must be given to the order of the succession. The crown of Russia was long hereditary ; Peter I. made it patrimonial; and it became elective at the last revolution. But every nation would wish to know upon what right its government is established; and the claim that irides the people most is birthright. When this visible sign is removed from the ayes of the multitude, there is nothing but revolt and distention. BUT it is not enough to give the people a sovereign whom they cannot refute to acknowledge, that sovereign muff make them happy, and this can never be done in Russia, till the form of government is changed. CIVIL slavery is the condition of every subject in that empire, who is not noble: they are all at the disposal VOL. II. F of
B o o K of their barbarous masters, as cattle are in other countries. Am.ns.R these slaves, none are so ill used as those who till the gr und; those valuable men, whose case, happiness, and freedom have been celebrated with such enthusiasm in happier chimes. POLITICAL slavery is the lot of the whole nation, since the sovereigns have established arbitrary power. Antony th: fu!jeils who are considered as free, not one cm be nor:!ly certain of the fLfcty of his person, the property of his fortune, or even of his liberty, which ma. at a!y tim: be t.i:.en away, except in lime cales previously determined by lav. Europe has long bc-n certaine with the project ol a rccd cf hal s preparing for Russia. The august prin cess, who :tow govcr!is tia:!t empire, well knew, that the people then;ii-lves must approve the laws they are tc ohb-, that the n;a.- recrt once and love them as thhii ow-.n work; an tl:3; adjrcl"cd the deputies from all th cities c:f htr xaf ere-pre. li; c !:/i;,!;-,, crcridr- wl wit' 7:x thee :i.::rc/is of t,;c izitil' e ; i 't s together draw up G hyIj rs laws, i.,' iLi, may r:;',a,'tif j ; uti. fe!:ity upon a soli t,7j's. But wh-a are Lr:'s without magistrates ? What arc magistrates, whose sentence the despot may reverse according to his own caprice, and even punish him fox passing it. UNDER such a government, no tie can submit be tvren the members and their head. If he is always formidable to them, they are no leis so to him. The strength he exerts to oppress them, is no other than their own united strength turned against themselves. Despair, or a nobler sentiment, may every moment turn it against him. THE respect due to the memory of so great a man as Peer I. ought not to prevent us from declaring that he had not the gift of seeing at one view all the requisites for a well constituted state. He was born with genius, and had be-n i fpircd with a love of glory, This passionate
made him active, patient, assiduous, indefatigable, and B O o K capable of conquering every difficulty he met with in V. the pursuit of his schemes, whether they proceeded from nature, ignorance, custom or obstinacy. With there virtues, and the foreign aids he called in, he succeeded in establishing an army, a fleet, and a sea port. He made several regulations necessary for the prosecution of his bold projects; but though same has pro claimed him under the sublime title of a law-giver, he barely enacted two or three laws, and those few bear the (camp of a savage disposition. He never proceeded so far as to combine the happiness of his people, with his own personal greatness. After his noble institutions, his people were as wretched as ever, and still groaned under poverty, slavery, and oppression. He never re taxed in any one instance his despotic sway, but rather made it more oppressive, and bequeathed to his successors that detestable and pernicious notion, that the subjects are nothing, and that the sovereign is all. SINCE his death, it has been repeatedly asserted that the nation was not yet sufficiently enlightened to be bene sited by liberty. Let flattering courtiers, and false mi sisters learn, that liberty is the birthright of all men ; that it is the business, of a well regulated society to direct and guide it to the good of all; and that it is unlawful power that has robbed the greatest part of the globe of that natural advantage. CATHERINE, who seems to have ascended the throne with an ambition for great things, begins to be sensible that ravages committed in the deserts of Moldavia, and in some defenceless islands, bought with the lives of two or three hundred thousand men, will not endear her name to posterity. She is labouring to instill notions of liberty into a people stupefied by slavery ; but it is doubt ful whether she will succeed with regard to the present generations z WITrI
B O 0 K WITH regard to the next, perhaps the best way,v- would be, to chuse out one of the most fertile provinces,of the empire, there to build houses, to furnish them with all the implements of husbandry, and to allot a portion of land to each house. It would then be proper to invite free men from civilized countries, to give them the full property of the houses and lands prepared for them, to secret them a subsistence for three years, and to have them governed by a chief who has no property in the country. A toleration should be granted to all religions and consequently private and domestic worship should be allowed, but no public worship. FROM thence the feeds of liberty would spread all over the empire: the adjacent countries would see the happiness of these colonists, and wish to be as happy as they are. Were I to be cast among savages, I would not bid them build huts to shelter them from the inclemency of the weather; they would only laugh at me; but I would build one myself. When the severe season came on, I should enjoy the benefit of my foresight; the savage would see it, and next year he would imitate me. It is the same with an enslaved nation; we are not to bid-them be free, but we are to lay before their eyes the sweets of liberty, and they will wish for them. I WOULD by no means impose upon my colonists the burden of the first expences I had incurred on their ac count; much less would I entail the pretended debt upon their offspring. This would be false and inhuman policy. Is not a slate sufficiently rewarded by a man of twenty, twenty-five or thirty years of age, who brings it the gift of his person, his strength, his talents and his life ? Mull he pay a rent likewise for the present he makes ? When he becomes opulent, he may be treated as a subject, but not till the third or fourth generation, if the projet is meant to succeed, and if the people are to besought
brought to that condition, the advantages of which they B o o K have had time to be acquainted with. v. IN this new arrangements persons and things, where the interests of the monarch will be blended with those of the subject, in order to strengthen Russia, she must aim less at glory, and sacrifice the influence she has aft fumed over the general affairs of Europe. Petersburg, which has improperly been made a capital, must be re duce to a meer commercial staple; and the feat of go government transferred to the heart of the empire. It is from such a center of dominion, that a wise sovereign, acquainted with the wants and resources of his people, will effectually labour to unite the detached parts of that large empire. From the suppression of every kind of slavery, will spring up a middle slate among the people without which, neither arts, manners, nor learn ing, ever existed in any nation. TILL this is accomplished, the court of Russia will strive in vain to enlighten the nation, by inviting fa mous men from all countries. Those exotics will perish there, as foreign plants do in our green-houses. In vain will they erect schools and academies at Petersburg; in vain will they send pupils to Paris and to Rome, to be trained up under the best masters. Those young people on their return from their travels, will be forced to drop their talents, and embrace a subaltern condition to get a livelihood. In all things, we mull begin at the right end and the way to do this is certainly to en courage mechanic arts, and the lower classes of men. Learn to till the ground, to dress skins, to manufacture your wool, and you will soon see wealthy families spring up. From there will arise children, who, not chusing to follow the laborious professions of their fathers,, will begin to think, to converse, to arrange syllables, and to imitate .nature; and then you will have philosophers, orators, poets, painters, and statuaries. Their produces 3 tions
B o o K tions will become necessary to rich men, and they will., purchase them. As long as men are in want they will,work, and continue to work till their wants are satisfied. Then they grow lazy and weary of themselves ; and the finer arts are in all places the offspring of genius and idleness, for men fly to them when they have no other means of employment.,IF we attend to the progress of society, we shall find husbandmen plundered by robbers; these husbandmen chuse some from among themselves to oppose the robbers, and thus they commence soldiers. Whilst some are reap ing, and the reftltanding sentinel, a parcel of by-lands hers say to the labourers and soldiers, you seem to be hard at work; if you husbandmen will feed us, and ocu soldiers will defend us, we will beguile your labours with our songs and dances. Thus we have the bard and the man of letters. In process of time, this man of letters is sometimes linked with the chief against the people, and sings the praises of tyranny; sometimes with the people against the tyrant, and then he sings the praises of liberty. In both cases, he is become a citizen of consequence.,LET us follow the constant march of nature, and in deed it would be in vain to depart from it. \Ve shall see all our efforts and expences come to nothing, and every thing decaying around us; we shall find ourselves in much the same barbarous state, from whence we strove to disengage ourselves, and thus we shall remain till some incident calls forth a natural police out of our own lands; for as to foreign aids, they can at most but hasten its progress. We are to expect nothing more, and to cultivate our own advantages. IN this we shall find another advantage, which is that the arts and sciences of our own growth will gradually advance towards perfection, and we shall be originals; whereas, if we borrow foreign models, we shall be :g-,5 ignorant
ignorant of the cause of their perfection. and we stall B o o K never be any thing more than imperfect copyists. . Time picture we have allowed ourselves to draw of Russia, may be thought to be an improper digression; but this may, possibly, be a favourable opportunity of fitting a just value upon a power, which for Tome years past, has acted so conspicuous and splendid a part. Let us now inquire into the connexions the other Euro pean nations have formed with China. CHINA is a nation in which there are fewer idle peo- Ceo:ecc-,tXn-, of the ple, than in any other part of the world, perles, the i uroicans only one where there are none. Though they have th? welt' hin;a. art of printing, and .il .he general rr.cm s of education, !.,-:,i .,li,they ctpi *l built' *) - i 'o-fptc-dtto its they can flew neither a capital building, nor a beautiful t,.t!. tfatue, nor any elegant compositions in poetry, ncr prose; they have no musick, nor painting; nor have they any knowledge, but what an observing man might acquire by himself, and by his industry carry to a great degree of perfection. As their cuficms a-low of no emigration, and that the empire is extremely populous, their labours are confined to necessaries. More profit attends the in mention of the smallest ulkful art, than the most sublime discovery that only shews an exertion of genius. A man who can turn the cuttings of gauze to some use, is more erlcemed than one who can solve the most difficult problem. In this country especially, the following question is frequently put, which is indeed too often as1cd amongst ourselves. i[hat is that good for? When they are apprehensive of a scarcity, all the citizens exert their utmost efforts, and lose not a moment of time. Interest must be the secret or open spring of all their ac tions. They muff therefore of course be addicted to ling, fraud, and theft; and must be mean spirited, narrow minded, selfish, and covetous. AN European who buys silks at Canton ; is cheated in the quantity, quality, and price. The goods are car-,F 4 cried
B o K cried on board; where the dishonesty of the Chinese mer-,v. chant is soon detected. When he comes for his money the European tells him: Chinese, thou haft cheated me; that may be, replies the Chinese, but you must pay. But, says the European, thou art a rogue, a scoundrel, a wretch. European, answers the Chinese, that may be, but I must be paid. The European pays, the Chinese takes his money, and says at parting; what has thy anger availed thee ? What haft thou got by abu sing me ? Would it not have been much better to have paid at once, and have held thy tongue. Wherever men are hardened to insults, and do not blush at dishonesty the empire may be very well governed, but the morals of the people must be very bad. THIS disposition for lucre, made the Chinese renounce the use of gold and fiver coin in their inland trade. They were forced to it by the daily increase of false coiners, and were reduced to the necessity of circulating none but copper money. COPPER becoming scarce, though history has not in formed us by what means, those shells were afterwards brought into use, so well known by the name of cowries. The government having observed that the people grew tired of such brittle money, ordered that all copper vessels in the empire should be brought to the mint. This ill judged expedient proving insufficient to answer the demands of the public, they pulled down about four hundred temples of the God So, and melted down all his idols. After this, the court paid the magistrates and the army, partly in copper, and partly in paper. The people were so exasperated at there dangerous innovations that the government was obliged to drop them. From that time, which was three hundred years ago, copper coin is the only legal money. NOTWITHSTANDING the selfish disposition of the Chinese, their foreign connections were but small. The,little
little intercourse they had with other nations proceeded B 0 K from the contempt in which they held. them. They v. grew desirous however of frequenting the neighbouring ports; and the Tartar government, less solicitous than the former for keeping up old customs, favoured this means of increasing the wealth of the nation. Expeditions were openly made, whereas before they were only tolerated by the selfish governors of the maritime pro vices. A people famed for their wisdom, could not fail of meeting with a favourable reception. They took advantage of the high opinion other nations entertained of their taste, to recommend the commodities they had to dispose of, and their industry extended itself on the continent as well a: by sea. CHINA at present trades with the Core, which is supposed to have been originally peopled with Tartars. It was certainly conquered by.them several times, and has, been sometimes enslaved by, and sometimes independent of, the Chinese; to whom it now pays tribute. Thither they carry china ware, tea, and silks; and in re turn bring home hemp and cotton,, and an ordinary fort' of ginseng. THE Tartars, who may be considered as foreigners, purchase of the Chinese, woollen stuffs, rice, tea, to banco, for which they give them sheep, oxen, furs, and chiefly ginseng. This shrub grows only upon the highest mountains, in the thickest forests, and about the craggy rocks. The shem is hairy, fruit, round, and of a deep red, except towards the bottom, where it becomes whitish. It grows to the height of about eighteen inches. Towards the top, it throws out branches which bear oblong leaves, that are small, woolly, jagged, of a dark green on the upper side, and whitish. and glossy on the back. The age of the shrub is known by the shoots, and the older it is, the better. The vir sues of the ginseng are many, but it is generally allowed to
B o K to be a Strengthened of the stomach, and a purifier of the, blood. The Chinese are so fond of it, that they everything they can pay too dear for it. The government sends out ten thousand Tartar soldiers every year to ga ther this plant, and every one is obliged to bring two ounces of the best ginseng gratis, and for the rest they are paid its weight in silver. Private persons are not al lowed to gather it. This odious prohibition does not prevent their going in search of it. If they did not break this unjust law, they would not be able to pay for the commodities they buy in the empire, and consequently muff go without them.,WE have already taken notice of the trade of China, with the Ruffians. At present it is of little consequence but it may and must become considerable. THEIR trade with lesser Bucharia, is nothing more than bartering tea, tobacco, and woollen cloth for the gold tus they find in their streams, when the snow be gins to melt. If ever those savages learn to work the mines that their mountains are full of, their connexions, which are now. so few, will soon increase, and it is im foible to determine how far they may be extended. THE empire is parted from the Mogul dominions and other parts of the Indies, by sands, mountains, and rocks, which make all communication impracticable; so that their inland trade is so contracted, that it does not exceed eight or nine millions '. Their trade by sea is more considerable. IT is supported by their silks, their tea, their china, and some articles of less consequence. Japan pays the Chinese in copper and gold; the Philippines with piastres Batavia with pepper and other spices; Siam with woods for dying, and with varna h; Tonquin with silk, and Cochinchina with sugar and gold. All there fe vernal branches put together may amount to thirty mil-,O On zn averse, Eciu 37z,:cacl.,lions,
lions', and' employ a hundred and fifty vessels. The Bo o K Chinese get at least cent, per cent. upon these articles, . of which Cochinchina pays half. Their correspondents in shout of the markets they frequent, are defcendentsof- such of their countrymen as fled from their own country when the Tartars made themselves matters of it. THE trade of China, which to the north does not extend farther than Japan, nor to the east beyond the straights of Malacca and the Sound, would probably have been carried farther, if the Chinese ship-builders had not been ob wedded to their old customs, and had condescended to receive instruction from the Europeans. Those who first appeared upon the coasts of China, were admitted alike into all the roads. Their extreme familiarity with the women, their violence with the men, and repeated a&s of haughtiness and indiscretion, made them forfeit that privilege; and now they are only suffered to put in at Canton, the southernmost harbour of the empire. THIS city hands on the banks of the Tigris, a large river, that on one side communicates with the remotest provinces by means of several canals, and on the other brings up the largest ships to the very walls of the city. Formerly our ships were to be seen there intermixed with the Chinese vessels, but now they oblige all European ships to flop at Hoaung-pon, four leagues from the city. It is not clear whether they were induced to take this precaution from the fear of being surprised, or whether it was a contrivance of men in power for their own private interest. The mistrustful and rapacious disposition of the Chinese might give room for both these conjectures THIS regulation did not affect the personal situation of the navigators; they fill enjoyed in Canton all theft , 12,50Co f1.,freedom
A o o K freedom that is confident with public order. Their pro.,c- -, session inclined them to abuse this freedom, and they coon grew tired of so much circumspection as is requisite under a government full of formalities. They were punished for their imprudence, and forbidden all access to men in power. The magistrate wearied out with their perpetual complaints, would no longer hear them, but through the channel of interpreters who were dependent on the Chinese merchants. All Europeans were or tered to reside in one particular part of the town, that was allotted to them. None were exempted but such as could somewhere find a person who would be answerable for their good behaviour. The restraints were made still more grievous in 1760. The court being informed by the English that the trade laboured under scandalous hardships, sent commissaries from Pekin, who were bribed by the parties accused. Upon the report made by these corrupt men, all the Europeans were confined in a few houses, where they could treat with none but such merchants as had an exclusive privilege. This monopoly has lately been abolished, but the other grievances still continue the same. THESE mortifications have not disguised us of trad ing to China. We continue to fetch from thence tea, china, raw silk, manufactured silks, varnish, paper, and some lesser articles. free T, TEA is a shrub about as high as our pomegranate .p; . buy or myrtle. It is propagated by feeds, which are sown Cenhn, in holes three or four inches deep. Nothing is used but,the leaves. It bears great plenty when it is three years old, but fewer at fever. It is then cut down to the hem, and shoots Our sprigs, every one of which bears nearly as many leaves as a whole shrub. TEA is cultivated in molt provinces in China, but is not equally good every where, though they are al ways careful to place it in a southern aspect and in,valleys.
valleys. That which grows in sony ground is far B o o IK preferable to what grows in a light soil, but the worst fort is that which is produced in a clayish ground. THE different degree of perfection in tea is not ow ing alone to the difference of soil; but still more to the season in which it is gathered. THE first crop is gathered in March, when the leaves are yet small, tender and delicate, and this is called imperial tea, because it is chiefly reserved for the uses the court and people of fashion. The second crop is gathered in April; the leaves are then larger and more spread, but of lesser quality than the first. The last and coarsest tea is gathered in May. It is closely packed up in common pewter boxes, that the air may not get at it, which would make it lose its flavour. TEA is the common drink of the Chinese. The use of it was not introduced from vain caprice. Almost throughout the empire, the waters are unwholesome and nauseous. Of all the methods that were tried to better them, none succeeded so well as tea. Upon trial it was thought to be endued with many virtues, and extolled as an excellent dissolvent, a purifier of the blood, a strengthen of the head and stomach, and a promoter of digestion and perspiration. THE high opinion which the first Europeans con civet of the inhabitants, induced them to adopt their notion of tea, though perhaps they over-rated it. We caught their enthusiasm, and it has gone on increasing in the North of Europe and America, where the air is thick and loaded with vapours. THOUGH, in general, prejudice goes a great way, yet it must be allowed that tea produces some good es feds in those countries where it is universally drunk; however, they cannot be so great any where as in China. We know the Chinese keep the best tea for themselves, and that they adulterate that intended for,exportation,
Bo K exportation, by mixing with it other leaves, which. referable those of tea in shape, but may not have the,fame properties. We know too that since the ex potation has been so great, they are not so curious in the choice of the soil, nor so nice in the preparing of it, Our manner of using it, may likewise contribute to lessen its virtues. We drink it too hot and too firing; we put in a great deal of sugar, frequently perfumes, and sometimes pernicious liquors. Besides all this, its com ing so far by tea is alone sufficient to exhaust most of its salubrious salts.,WVE shall never be able to pass a definitive judgment cn the virtues of tea, till it is transplanted into our own climates. We began to despair of success, though the experiments had been only made with feed, and it is said with bad feed. At last a tree has been brought over, the stem of which ventured fix inches, and it has been put into the hands of Linnaeus, the most celebrated botanist in Europe. He has found means to preserve it, and he is in hopes he will be able to propagate it in open air, even in Swede, since it thrives in the northern parts of China. It will be a very great advantage to us, if we can cultivate a plant at home, which can never sussex more by change of foi, than by growing musty in the long passage it must undergo in bringing from abroad. No: ILng ago we had as little prospect of attaining to the art of making china-rh. Eros ME years ago there were in the collection of Count p:. 'cy de Callus two or three little fragments of a vase, sup C;=. posed to be Egyptian, which being carefully analysed proved to be unglazed china. If that learned man has rot been ifir.forrred, the art of making porcelain was already known in the flourishing days of ancient Egypt. But without feme more authentic monuments than a single .sad, we must not rob China of this invention, where its origin is lost in the greatest antiquity.,EGYPT
EGYPT is supposed by many to have the pre-eminence B o o K in point of antiquity, both in regard to its foundation, V. and to laws, scenes and arts in general, though per laps China may have as good a claim; but who knows whether there two empires, are not equally ancient, and haven't received all their social institutions from a people inhabiting the vast region that divides them i Whether the savage inhabitants of the great mountains of Asia, after wandering about for many ages, in the con tient that makes the center of our hemisphere, have not insensibly dispersed along the coast of the surround ing seas, and formed themselves into separate nations in China, India, Persia and Egypt ? Whether the successive floods which may have happened in that part of the world, may not have hemmed them in, and con fined them to those regions, interfered with mountains and deserts. These conjectures are not altogether foreign to the history of commerce, as that mutt one time or other caR a greater light upon the general his tory of mankind, of their nations, opinions, and in mentions of every kind. THE art of making porcelain is, if not one of the molt wonderful, at last one of the most pleasing that men have ever discovered, as neatness is preferable to finery, CHINA is a species of earthen ware, the most perfect of any. It varies in colour, texture and transparency. Transparency indeed is not so essential to it, but that a great deal of very fine china does not possess this qua city. CHINA is commonly covered with white or coloured varnish. This varnish is nothing but a layer of melted glass, which muff never be but half transparent. This is stiled glazed porcelain, and is properly what we call china; and the unglazed is distinguished by the name of porcelain biscuit. This is intrinsically as good as the,other,
B 0 OK other, but is neither so neat, so bright, nor so beau.,V. , ,~,, tiful.,THE word earthen ware suits the definition of China, because, as all other earthen ware, the fubAancc of it is pure earth, without any alteration from art but the mere division of its parts. No metallic or saline sub fiance whatever must enter into its composition, not even in the glazing, which muff be made of substances nearly, if not altogether, as simple the best china, and commonly the closest, is that which is made of the simplest materials, such as a vi vitrifiable stone, and a pure and white clay. On this last substance depend the closeness and compactness of porcelain and indeed of earthen ware in general. THE connoisseurs divide the china that comes from AGa into fix classes; the routed china, the old white, the japan, the Chinese, the Chinese japan, and the In tian. These several appellations rather denote a differ once to the eye than a real diftinfion.,THE routed china, which no doubt is called so from the resemblance it bears to the scales of a trout, seems to be the most ancient, and favours most of the infancy of the art. It has two imperfections. The paste is always very brown, and the surface appears all full of cracks. These cracks are not only in the glazing, but in the china itself; and therefore this fort is hardly transparent, does not found well, is very brittle, and bears the fire better than any other. To hide these cracks, they paint it with a variety of colours: in this kind of ornament consists its only value. The ease with which Count Lauragais has imitated it, has con winced us that it is only an imperfect fort of china. The oh white is certainly very beautiful, whether we consider only the outside, or examine the inside. This is very curios china, but very scarce, and but little,used.
used. The pale seems to be extremely short, and B o o fit only for small vases; figures, and other orna v. mental china. It is sold in trade for japan, though they certainly make very fine of this fort in China. It is of two different hues; the one a perfect cream colour, the other a bluish white, which makes it look more transparent. The glazing seems to be more incorporated into this last. They have tried to imitate this fort at St. Cloud, and some pieces have been produced, that looked very fine, but there who have narrowly examined them have said they were no better than fist or lead, and would not stand a comparison. THE japari is not so easily distinguished as most people imagine, from the fines of the fort made in China. A skilful adept whom we have consulted, pretends that in general the glazing of the true japan is whiter, and has less of the bluish cast than the porcelain of Chi na, that the ornaments are laid on with less profusion that the blue is brighter, and the patterns and flowers not so whimsical, and better copied from nature. His opinion seems to be confirmed be' the testimony of some writers, who tell us that the Chinese who trade to Japan, bring home some pieces of china that make more shew than their own, but are not so solid ; and that they fete to decorate their apartments, but they :ever use them, because they will not bear the fire well. ll china glazed with coloured varnish, whether sea greet, bluish or purple, he believes to be Chinese. All he japan we have here comes from the Dutch, who are he only Europeans that are suffered to come into that empire. Possibly they may have picked it out of the porcelain brought thither every year by the Chinese, oi hey may have bought it at Canton. In either case, the distinction between the porcelain of Japan and that of hint would be false in fa, and merely founded on VoL. II. G prejudice.
B o K prejudice. The result however of this opinion is that V ' what is sold here for japan is very fine china there is less doubt about what we call porcelain of China. The glazing has a bluer calf than that of Japan it is more highly coloured, and the patterns are more whimsical. The paste is in general whiter and more compact; the grain finer and closer, and the china thin ner. Amongst the several forts they make in China, there is one that is very ancient; it is very coarse, very thick and very heavy. Some of this fort is routed, and the grain is often dry and brown. That which is not routed has a good found, but both want transparency. It is sold for old china, and the finest pieces are supposed to come from Japan. It was originally a better fort of cartier ware, rather than a true porcelain; time and experience may have improved it. It is grown more transparent, and the colours being more carefully laid on, they look brighter. The essential difference between this and other china is, that this is made of a shorter paste, and is very hard. and solid. The pieces of this china have always at the bottom the marks of three or four supporters, which were put to prevent its giving way in baking. By this contrivance, they have succeeded in making very large pieces of china. Those that are not of this fort, and which is called modern Chinese, are of a longer paste and finer grain, and arn higher glazed, whiter and clearer. They seldom have the marks of the supporters, and their transparency ha nothing glassy in it. All that is made with this paste is easily turned, so that it is visible the workman's had has glided over it, as over a fine smooth clay. There i an infinite variety of this fort of china, both as to form, colouring, workmanship and prices fifth fort is what we call chinese japan, because it unites the ornaments of the porcelain which is though to come from Japan, with those that are more in th!,Chincef,3
Chinese taste, Amongst this kind of china, there is I o o K some that is ornamented with a very fine blue, with . white scrolls, The glazing is a true white enamel, whereas that of the other forts is half transparent, for the Chinese varnish is never entirely so. THE colours in general are laid on in the same man ner, both on the true china and the imitations of it. The first and most solid of them is the blue that is ex treated from fmalt3 which is nothing more than the calx of cobalt. This colour is commonly laid on before the pieces are either glazed or baked, so that the glazing that is put on afterwards serves as a dissolvent. All the other colours, and even the blue that enters into the composition on the pallet, are laid on over the glazing, and must first be mixed up and ground with a saline sub fiance or calx of lead, that favours their ingress into the glazing. It is a pretty common thing for the Chinese to colour the whole of the glazing; then the colour is laid on neither over nor under, but incorporates into the glazing itself. Some very extraordinary fanciful ornaments are made in this manner. Whatever way the colours are applied, they are commonly extracted from cobalt, gold, iron, mineral earths, and copper. That which is extracted from copper is a very delicate colour, and re quires great nicety in the preparation. All the forts of china we have described are made at King-touching, an immense town in the province of Kiamfi. This manufacture employs five hundred fur names and a million of men. They have tried to imitate it at Pekin and other places of the empire, but have not succeeded any where, though they employed the same workmen, and used the same materials; so that they have universally given up this branch of industry, ex kept in the neighbourhood of Canton, where they make 'a fort of China, that is known here by the name of In Idea china. The paste is long and yielding; but in,G 2 general
0 0 K general the colours, especially the blue, and the red ol,mars, are far inferior to what comes from Japan and the interior parts of China. All the colours, except the blue, stand up in lumps, and are very badly laid on This is the only china that has purple, which has giver rise to that foolish notion of its being painted in Hot. land. Most of the cups and plates and other vessel: our merchants bring home are of this manufacture which is lets esteemed in China than our delft is here.,VE have endeavoured to introduce this art among us. It has succeeded best in Saxony. Theirs is tru. china, and probably made with very simple materials though prepared and mixed with more art than in Asia This curious preparation, together with the scarcity of the materials, is no doubt what makes the Dresden china so dear. As there is but one fort of paste tha comes from that manufacture, it ha, been surmised, an not without Come degree of probability, that the Sax ons were only in possession of their own secret, an by no means of the art of making china. What seem to confirm this suspicion is the great affinity between the Saxon and other German china, which seems to b made upon the same principle however this be, it is certain no china is high glazed, smoother, better shaped, more pleasing to th eye, or more solid and durable. It will resist a fierce fire much longer than many of the forts made i China. The colours are finely disposed, and execute in a masterly manner; none are so well adapted to th glazing; they are blended with great exactness; the are bright, without being drowned and chilled, like ro of those made at Sevre.,THE mention of this reminds us that we mu take notice of the china made in France. This, lit the English china, is only made with frit, that is, wit tones that are not fusible in themselves, but receive,beginnin
beginning of fusion from the mixture of a greater or B o o K, lesser quantity of salt; and accordingly it is more glassy, V' of a looser texture, and more brittle than any other. That of Severe, which is by far the worst of all, and al ways looks yellowish and dirty, which betrays the lead they put into the glazing, has no other merit than what it derives from the capital hands that are employed for the patterns and the penciling There great masters have displayed so much take in the execution of some of the pieces, that they will be the admiration of posterity; but in itself, this ware will never be but an ob sea of tate, luxury and expence. The supporters will always be a principal cause of its dearness. ALL china, when it receives the last stroke of the fire, is actually in a state that has a tendency to fusion, and is soft and pliable, like red hot iron. There is none but what will bend and give way when it is in that state. If the pieces, when they are turned, are thicker or project more on one side than another, the strongest will infallibly bear away the weakest ; they will warp to that side, and the piece is spoiled. They guard against this inconvenience, by propping it up with bits of china made of the same paste, of different shapes, which they apply under or against the parts that project, and are most in danger of warping. As all china shrinks in baking, the substance of the props must not only be such as will shrink too, but such as will h(rink neither more nor less than the piece they are intended to support. As the different pastes do not h(rink alike, it follows that the props must be of the same paste as the piece that is baking. THE softer the china is, and the more inclining to vi edification, the more it wants to be propped up. This is the great fault of the Severe china; the paste is very cosily, and very often more of it is wasted in props, than goes to the making of the piece itself. The necessity of,G 3 this
B o o K this expensive method draws on another inconvenience the glazing cannot be baked at the same time as the china, which therefore muff go twice into the furnace. The porcelain made in China, and the best imitations of it, being of a stiffer paste, and less susceptible of verification seldom want any props, and are baked ready glazed. They consequently consume much less pase, are seldom spoiled, take up less time, and less firing, and give less troublesome writers have urged in favour of the superiority of Asiatic china, that it refills fire better than ours; that all European china will melt in that of Saxony, but that the Dresden itself will melt in the foreign china. This assertion is utterly false, if taken in its full extent. Few porcelains of China will stand the fire so well as the Dresden; they spoil and bubble in the fire that bakes that made by Count Lauragais; but that is of no consequence, or of very little. China is not intended to go back into the furnace when once it is come out, nor is it destined to bear the action of an intense fire. IT is in point of solidity that the foreign china truly excels that of Europe; it is by the property of heating quicker and with less risque, and safely bearing the sudden impression of cold or boiling hot liquors; it is by the ease with which it is moulded and baked, which is an inestimable advantage, as they can make pieces of all sizes with great ease, bake them without any risque, can be afforded cheaper, they are of general use, and consequently the object of a more extensive trade. Another great advantage of the India china is, that the same paste is very useful for making crucibles, and a thousand such implements used in the other arts. Shelf vessels not only refill longest in the fire, but communi cate nothing of their substance to what is melted in tncm. This substance is so pure, so white, so combatant
and so hard, that it will hardly melt at all, and gives B o o K no tinge to any thing. v. FRANCE is at the eve of enjoying all these advantages. It is certain that Count Lauragais, who has long been in search of the secret of the Chinese, has at last made forme china that is very like it. His materials have the same properties, and if they are no: the very same, at least they are species of the same genus. Like the Chinese, he can make his paste long or short, and follow either his own or some other process. His china is not inferior to that of the Chinese in point of pliableness, and is superior to it in point of glazing; perhaps too it takes the colours better. If he can but bring it to have as fine and as white a grain, we may very well do without the porcelain of China; but we cannot so well do with out their fisk. THE annals of that empire ascribe the discovery of The Eurc- silk to one of the wives of the emperor Hoangti. The p,-,n buy;,fitk in Chi empretnes amused themselves with breeding worms, na. drawing the silk, and working it. It is even said 'hat in the interior part of the palace, there was a piece of ground which was set apart for the culture of mulberry trees. The empress, attended by the chief ladies of her court, went herself and gathered the leaves of the lower branches, that were brought down within her reach. This wise policy so much promoted this branch of industry, that the nation, which before was only clothed in skins, soon appeared dressed in silk. In a short time, perfection was added to plenty. They were indebted for this last advantage to the writings of some ingenious men, and even of some ministers, who did not think it beneath them to attend to this new art. All China learnt from their theory every thing belonging to it. THE art of breeding silk worms, and of spinning and weaving their silk, spread from China to India and,G 4 Persia,
B o o K Persia, where it made no very rapid progress ; if it hades', Rome would not, at the end of the third century, have given a pound of gold for a pound of Silk. Greece having adopted this art in the eighth century, silks were a little more known, but did not grow common. They were long considered as an article of grandeur, and reserved for the nos eminent stations, and the greatest solemnities. At last Roger, king of Sicily, sent for workmen from Athens, and the culture of the mulberry tree toon extended from that iliad to the neighbouring continent. Other countries in Europe wished to partake of an advantage that procured so much wealth to Italy, and they attained to it after some fruitless attempts. however, from the nature of the climate, or some other cause, it has not succeeded every where alike. THE fii':s of Naples, Sicily, and Reggio, whether in o-ganzin, or in tram, are all ordinary ills ; but they are useful, and even necessary for brocades, for embroil, darn, and for all works that require firing silk the other Italian sits, those of Novi, Venice, Tuf cony, Milan, Montserrat, Bergamo, and Piedmont, are used in oeganzin for the warp, though they are not all squally fine and good. The Bologna silks were long preferred to any other. Since those of Piedmont have been improved, they justly claim the preference, as be ing the evenmoft, the finest, and the lightest. Those of Bergamo come neared to them though the Spanish silks in general are very fine there of Valencia are by far the best. They are all fit for any kind of work; the only fault they have, is being rather too oily, which is a great detriment to the dye.,THE French silks excel most others in Europe, and are inferior to none but those ps Piedmont and Ber game in point of lightness. In other ref peas, they are brighter coloured than those of. Piedmont; and mere even,and
end stronger than those of Bergamo. Some years ago, B o O France produced fix thousand quintals of silk, which V. sold from fifteen to twenty one livres a pound of four teen ounces. At the average of eighteen livres, u it produced an income of-ten millions ". When the new plantations have made the progress that is expected from them, France will be eased of the annual out goings for this article, which arc still considerable. THE variety of silks produced in Europe, has not yet enabled us to do without the Chinese. Though in ge neral it is uneven and heavy, it will always be in request for its whiteness. It is generally thought to derive this advantage from nature; but it is more natural to sup pole that when they draw the silk, the Chinese put some ingredient into the bason, that has the property of ex pelting all heterogeneous substances, or at least the coarsest parts. The little waste there is in this silk, compared to any other, when it is boiled for dying, seems to give great weight to this conjecture. HOWEVER this be, the Chinese silk is so inimitably white, that no other will do for blondes and gauzes. All our endeavours to substitute our own in the blonde manufactures have been fruitless, whether we have made use of prepared or unprepared silk. The trials upon gauze have not been quite so unsuccessful. The whitest French and Italian silks have been tried, and seemed to answer pretty well, but neither the colour nor the dressing were so perfect as with the Chinese silk. Is the last century, the Europeans drew very little silk from China. Our own succeeded very well for black and coloured gauze, and for cat-gut that was then in fashion. The taste that has prevailed for these forty years, and especially the last twenty-five, for white gauzes andros about 13s. to about ils. 6d. I* ces. d. 437,500L,blondes,
B o o K blondes, has gradually increased the consumption of that,V. easter commodity. In latter times it has amounted,to eighty thousand weight a year, of which France has always taken near three fourths. This importa tion has increased to such a degree, that in 1766, the English alone imported a hundred and four thousand weight: as it could not be all consumed in gauze and blonde, the manufacturers have used it for tabbies and hosiery. The stockings made of this silk, are of a beau tissue white that never changes, but are not near so fine as others. BESIDES this silk, so remarkable for its whiteness, which comes chief from the province of The-Kiang, and is known in Europe by the name of Nankeen silk, which is the place where most of it is prepared, China produces ordinary silks, which we call Canton. As thes, are only fit for some kinds of tram, and are as dear as our own, which answers the same purpose, very few are imported. What the English and Dutch bring home, does not exceed five or fix thousand. The manufactured silks are a much more considerable Article. THE Chinese are not less ingenious in weaving their sinks than in preparing them. This does not extend to those that are mixed with gold and silver. Their artists have never known howto draw or spin there metals, and their ingenuity goes no further than rolling up their silks in gilt paper, or putting them upon the paper after they are wove. Both methods are equally bad. Though in general, men are more apt to be taken with glitter than with true excellence, we have never been tempted to buy there stuffs. We have been equally disgusted at the aukwardness of their patterns. They ex habit nothing butdiftorted figures, and unmeaning groups; they discover not any idea in the disposition of the lights a.d hades, nor anyof that elegance and ease that appear in,the
the works of our good artists. There is a stiffness and a B o0 o want of freedom in all they do, that is displeasing to v. . persons of any taste; all favours of their particular turn of mind, which is destitute of vivacity and elevation THE only thing that makes us bear with those faults, in all such of their works as represent flowers, birds or trees, is that none of those objeas are raised. The figures arc painted upon the silk itself with indelible co lours; and yet the deception is so compleat, that all there object appear to be brocaded or embroidered. As for their plain silks, they want no recommendation for they are perfect in their kind, and so are their colours, especially the green and the red. The white of their damages has something extremely pleasing. The Chinese use for them none but the silk of The-Kiang. They thoroughly boil the warp, as we do, but only half boil the woof. This method gives the damask more sub stance and stiffness. It has a reddish cast, without be ing yellow, which looks delightfully, and has not that glare that dazzles the fight. This pleasing white is like wise observable in the Chinese varnish. VARNISH is a kind of liquid gum, of a reddish co The Euro-speaks buy four. That of Japan is preferable to that of Tonquin vanished and Siam, and these are much better than that of Cam works, and paper, in bsdia. The Chinese buy it at all these markets, be China. cause what several of their own provinces afford, is not sufficient for their consumption. The tree that yields this gum, is called Si-chu, and resembles the ash, both in the bark and the leaf. It never grows above fifteen feet, and the item commonly measures two feet and a half. It bears neither flowers nor fruit, but is propagated in the following manner. IN the spring, when the sap of the Si-chu begins to shew itself, they chuse the strongest shoot that grows out of the item, and daub it all over with yellow earth X then wrap it round with a mat, to protect it from the,imprcf-
o o K impression of the air. If it shrikes root quickly, they v. cut it off, and plant it in autumn; but if it proves back-sward, they put it off to another opportunity. At what ever season it is done, the young plant must be pre feed from the ants, which is done by filling the hole with afies.,THE Si-chu yields no varnish till it is seven or eight years old, and then it comes in summer. It distils from incisions made at different distances in the bark, and runs into a shell that is fixed at each incision. They reckon it a good crop, when they get twenty pounds of varnish in one night out of a thousand trees. This gum is so prejudicial, that those who work with it are obliged to use constant precautions to guard against its ma poignancy. The workmen rub their hands and faces with rape oil before they begin, and after they have done their work, and wear a mask, gloves, boots, and a breast plate there are two ways of using the varnish. The sirs is to rub the wood with a particular fort of oil they have in China; and as soon as it is dry, they lay on the varnish. It is so transparent that the veins of the wood ace seen through it, if it is laid on but two or three times. If it is repeatedly laid on, it may be brought to shine like a looking glass. The other way is more complicated. By means of stick, they glue a kind of pasteboard over the wood. On this smooth and solid ground, they spread several layers of varnish. It must be neither too thick nor too liquid; and in this just me dim the skill of the artist principally consists. Which ever way the varnish is laid on, it effectually preserves the wood from decaying. The worm can hardly get at it, and the damp not at all ; and with a little care, no smell will remain in it. T-ris varnish is as pleasant, as it is solid. It will take gold and silver, and all the different colours. Upon it are painted figures, landscapes, palaces, hunting par-ties,
ties, and battles; in short, nothing would be wanting, B o o K if it was not generally spoiled by the badness of the Chi v nee drawings. VARNISHING requires much pains and constant at mention. The varnish nuit be laid on nine or ten times at least, and cannot be spread too thin. There must be a sufficient interval between the layers, that they may have time to dry. A longer time still muff be allowed between the last layer and the polishing, painting and gilding. A whole summer is hardly sufficient for all this process at Nanking, whose manufactures supply the court, and the chief cities of the empire. It goes on quicker at Canton. As there is a great demand of there works for Europe, and as the Europeans will have them made their own way, and allow but a short time to complete them, they are hurried over. As the artist has not time to make them good, all his ambition is to make them pleasing to the eye. Paper is not liable to the same imperfections. ORIGINALLY, the Chinese wrote with a feel bodkin upon wooden tablets, which being tacked together, made a volume. They afterwards traced their characters upon pieces of silk or linen, cut as long and as broad as they chore them. At last they found out the secret of making paper about sixteen hundred years ago. IT is generally thought that this paper is made with silk; but whoever is acquainted with the practical part of the art must know, that silk can never be so divided as to work it into a uniform paste. The good Chinese paper is made with cotton, and would be equal, if not preferable, to ours, if it was as durable. THE ordinary paper, which is not intended for writing is made of the first or second bark of the mulberry tree, the elm, the cotton tree, and chiefly of the bamboo. These substances, after rotting in muddywa-,3 ter,
B o O K ter, are buried in lime; then bleached in the fun, and,V. .' , boiled in coppers to a fluid paste, which is spread upon hurdles, and hardens into sheets, that measure ten or twelve feet, or more. This is the paper that the Chi nee use for furniture. It has a very pleasing effect by its brilliancy, and by the variety of forms into which their ingenuity has found means to turn itt hough this paper is apt to crack to take the damp, and to be worm eaten, it is become an article of trade. Europe has borrowed from Asia, the notion of furnishing closets and making screens with it; but that taste begins to wear off. XWe already discard the Chinese for the use of the English paper, and hill certainly keep to that, when it has attained a higher degree of perfection. The French begin to imitate this no velty, and probably all nations will adopt it. BEsIDES the articles already mentioned, the Euro means bring from China, ink, camphor, borax, rhubarb gum lac, and patrons, a kind of cane that serves to make arm chairs; and formerly they brought gold. IN Europe a mark of gold is worth about fourteen marks and a half of silver. If there was a country where it was worth twenty, our merchants would carry gold thither, to change it for silver. They would bring us back that silver, to change it with us for gold, which they would again carry abroad for the same purpose. They would go on so till the relative value of the two metals came to be much the same in both counties It was upon this principle, that we continued for a great while to send silver to China to barter it for gold. We got 45 per cent. by this traffic. It was never carried on by the charter companies; because the profit they made upon the markets was so much greater than this, as great as it may appear, that they never thought it worth their while to be concerned in it. Their agents, who had not their choice, attended
to these speculations for their own profit. They pur B o o K sued them with such eagerness, that in a short time the V. traffic did not bring in enough to be worth continuing. Gold is dearer or cheaper at Canton, according to the season of the year; it is much cheaper from the begin king of February to the end of May, than the rest of the year, when the road is full of foreign ships. Yet in the most favourable season, no more than eighteen per cent. is to be got, which is not enough to tempt any body. The only agents who have not been sufferers by the cessation of this trade, are those of the French com any, who were never allowed to be concerned in it. The directors reserved that profit for themselves alone. Many attempted it, but Caftanier was the only one who acted as a capital trader. He lent goods to Mexico these were sold for piastres, which were carried to Acapulco, then to the Philippines, and from thence to China, where they were bartered for gold. That able man, by this judicious circulation, had opened a track, which it is surprising nobody else has since pursued. ALL the European nations, who pass the cape of Good Hope go to China. The Portuguese first landed there. The Chinese gave them the town of Macao, which was built upon a barren and rugged spot, on the point of a little island, at the mouth of the river of Can ton, and with it, a territory of about three miles in circumference They obtained the disposal of the road, which is too narrow, but safe and commodious, engaging themselves to pay to the empire all the duties to be levied on the ships that should come in; and they pur chased the freedom of erecting fortifications, by engaging to pay a yearly tribute of 37,500 livres x. As long as the court of Lisbon maintained the sovereignty of the Indian seas, this place was a famous mart. It decayed 16401. a s. 6d.,in
B o o K in proportion to the power of the Portuguese, and gra-,V, dually came to nothing. Macao has no farther connection with the mother country, and has no navigation but the fitting out of three small vessels, one for Timor, and two for Goa. Till 1744, the poor remains of that once flourishing colony still enjoyed some kind of independence The murder of a Chinese, determined the vi ceroy of Canton to apply to his court for a magistrate to infra and govern the barbarians of Macao; there were the very words of his petition. The court sent a Man daring, who took possession of the town in the name of his master. He scorned to live among foreigners, who are always held in great contempt, and fixed his re silence at the distance of a league from the town. THE Dutch met with fill worse treatment about a century ago. Those republicans, who notwithstanding the ascendent they had taken over the Asiatic seas, had been excluded from China by the intrigues of the Portuguese at last got access to their ports. Not'content with the precarious footing they had got there, they at tempted to erect a fort near Hoaung-pon, under pre hence of building a warehouse. It is said their scheme was, to make themselves masters of the navigation of the Tigris, and to lord it alike over the Chinese and so reigns who wanted to trade to Canton. The former saw through their prose sooner than was confident with their interest. They were all massacred, and it was a great while before that nation durst appear upon the coasts of China. They were seen there again about the year 1730. The first ships that landed there, came from Java. They brought various commodities of the growth of India in general, and of their own colonies in particular, and bartered them for those of the country. The managers, wholly intent upon pleating the council of Batavia, from whom they immediately received their orders, and from whom they expected their pro-emotion;
motion; thought of nothing but disposing of thegoods B o o K to the best advantage, and were very careless of what they v. took in return. The company soon found that at this rate, their sales could never stand in competition with thole of their rivals. This consideration determined them to send ships directly from Europe with money. They touch at Batavia, where they take in such commodities ofthe country as are fit for China, and return directly into our latitudes; with much better ladings'than for merely, but not so good as those of the English. OF all the nations that have traded to China, the Dutch have been the most constant. They had a sac tory in the island of Chufans at-the time when business was chiefly transacted at Ebony. When it was re moved to Canton, this factory still continued as before. As their company were required to export woollen drapery they determined to keep agents conflantly.at this place to dispose of it. This practice, joined to the de and for tea in the English settlements, threw almost all. the trade between China and Europe into their hands, towards the end of the laR century. The heavy du ties the government laid on that foreign consumption, atlas opened the eyes of other nations, and of France in particular. THAT monarchy had formed a particular company for that trade in xci. A rich merchant of Rouen, named Fermanel, was at the head of the undertaking. He had computed that it could not well be. carried on under a capital of 2zo,ooo livres Y% arid the subscriptions amounted only to 140,000 z, which occasioned the ill success of the voyage. The loses they sustained, in disposed them more than ever against a nation that was shy of foreigners, and imagined they came to corrupt their morals, and incroach upon their liberty. In vain,7 9,6251. · 6,1z51. VyL. II. H did
1 b 0o did the Chinese alter their opinion, and consequently their behaviour, towards the year i685. The French,seldom frequent their ports. The new society formed in 1698, was not more active than the former, and they did not succeed in this trade, till it came to be united with that of the Indies, and in the same proportion THE Danes and the Swedes began to frequent the-ports of China about the same time, and have aced upon the same principle. The Embden company would pro baby have adopted it likewise, if it had subsisted long enough. Sums laid THE annual purchases the Europeans make in China, ut in pur if we compute them by those of the year 1766, amount to chases by henry 26,754,494livres'; this tum, above four fifthsofwhich p'ai m is laid out on the single article of tea, has been paid in,piastres or in goods, brought by twenty-three lips. Sweden has furnished 1,935,168 livres in money, and 427,500 ' in pewter, lead, and other commodities. Den mark, 2,161,630 livres 1 in money, and 231,000 in iron, lead and gun-flints. France, 4,000,000 f in mo money, and 4000,600 s in drapery goods. Holland, 2,735,400 h in money, and 44,600 i in woollen goods, besides 4,000,150o in the produce of her colonies. Great Britain, 5,443,566 livres ' in moneys 2,000,475' in woollen drapery, and 3,375,000o in various articles brought from different parts of the Indies. All theft sums together make a sum total of 26,754,494 livres'. We do not include in this calculation ten millions P in specie which the Englishman carried over and above what we have mentioned, because they were destined to pay of,About i,i7o,SooL 84,663k 1s. c r1,703.21. 6i. g94s,7L 6s. di. e zo,o61. Ss. 175,000o · 17,5001. h ii9,673L Ss. i 1,95iLss. I s5,oo61. Miss. 3d. I About 238,o00. n Above 7,5o00L Abc 147,600o * About 1,170,5ooL P 437,5coL,3 the
the debts that nation had contracted, or to lay in a IB o o Rock to trade upon in the intervals between the toys v. Ages, IT is riot easy to conjecture What will become of this Conjectures trade; Though the Chinese are so fond of money, they the future seem more inclined to shut their ports against the Eurot fate ofthe,trade of peansi than to encourage them to enlarge their trade. Europe In As-the spirit of the Tartars has subsided and the con Chin". queries have imbibed the maxims of the vanquished na tion, they have adopted their prejudices, and in parti ocular their aversion from, and contempt of foreigners. They have discovered these dispositions by the humiliating hardships they have imposed upon them, after having treated then with so much tefpe&. The transition is but short from this precarious situation to a total expulsion; It may not be far off; and this is the more likely, as there is an active nation who very possibly is secretly contriving to bring it about. 'THE'Dutch are not ignorant that all Europe is grown tete fond of several Chinese productions. They must suppose that the impossibility of procuring them from the fill hard would not hinder the consumption. If we were all excluded from China, the natives would export their own commodities; As their shipping is not fit fbr a long navigation, they would be under the necessity of carrying them to Java or to the Philippines, and then we must buy them of one of the two nations to whom those colonies belong. The competition of the Spaniards is so insignificant that the Dutch might be very sure of engrossing the whole trade. It is dreadful to suspeCt thofe:republicans of any thing so bare, but it is well known they have been guilty of greater Vil lanies,for smaller interests. IF.tthe ports of China were once shut, it is probable they would be so for ever. The obstinacy of that nation would never sussex them to retract, and there is no appear sauce that they gould be compelled to it. What could,HaI
B o o K be done against a nation at the distance of eight thou-,v sand leagues ? No government is so destitute of commonsense as to imagine that our men, after the fatigues of so long a voyage, would venture to attempt conquests in a country defended by an innumerable people, though we should suppose them ever so cowardly, as they have never yet tried their strength against the Europeans. All the mischief we could do them, would be the intercepting of their navigation, which is the least of their concerns, and neither assets their subsistence nor their conveniences THIS fruitless revenge would even be practicable but for a very little while. The ships employed in this pi radical cruise, would be driven from those latitudes one part of the year by the monsoons, and the other part by the storms they call typhons, which are peculiar to the seas of China. HAVING thus explained the manner in which the Eu. romans have hitherto carried on the East India trade, it will not be improper to examine three questions which naturally arise upon the subject, and have not yet been de cited. I. Whether it is advisable to continue that trade. 2. Whether great settlements-eP necessary to carry it on with success. 3. Whether : ought to be left in the hands of charter companies. We shall discuss these points with the impartiality of a man, who has no other concern in the cause, but the interest of man kind. RVhed.-c Whoever considers Europe as making but one body, Europe Hold con whose members are united in one common interest, or true in at least in the same kind of interest, will not hesitate to trade wil India. pronounce whether her connexions with Asia are advantageous or not. The India trade evidently enlarges the circle of our enjoyments. It procures us wholesome and agreeable liquors, conveniences of a more refined nature, more splendid furniture, rome new pleasures, and a more comfortable existence. Such powerful incentives have,*3 had
had the same influence upon those nations, who, from B o o K their situation, their activity, their good fortune in mak V. ing discoveries, and the boldness of their enterprizes, are able to fetch these delights from their very source; as upon those who are unable to procure them, but through the channel of the maritime states, whose navigation disperses their superfluities all over the continent. So strong has been the passion of the Europeans for these foreign luxuries, that neither the highest duties, nor the strictest prohibitions, nor the severest penalties,. have been able to check it. Every government, after having in vain tried to controul this inclination, which only grew stronger by opposition, has been forced at lait to yield to it, though their prejudices, which were strengthened by time and custom, made them consider this com pliancy as detrimental to the stability, and to the general welfare of nations. BUT the time was come, when it became necessary to put an end to this tyranny. Can it be a matter of doubt, whether it is beneficial to add the enjoyments of foreign climates to those of our own ? Universal society exists as well for the common interest of the whole, as by the mutual interest of all the individuals that compose it. An increase of felicity must, therefore, result from a ge neral intercourse. Commerce is the exercise of that va liable liberty to which nature has called all men, which is the source of their happiness, and indeed of their vir tues. Men are never so truly free as in trade; nor is any thing so conducive to freedom as commercial laws and one particular advantage derived from it is, that as trade produces liberty, so it contributes to preserve it. WE must be but little acquainted with man, if we imagine that in order to make him happy, he must be debarred from enjoyments. We grant that the being ac customer to want the conveniences of life, lessens the sum of our misfortunes; but by retrenching more on,H3 out
0 0 K our pleasures than on our sorrows, we are rather brought V. to a state of insensibility than of happiness. If hature,has given man a heart too susceptible of tender impress, sons; if his imagination is ever employed in search of objects to gratify his restless and involuntary desires; he should be left at full liberty to pursue the wide circle of enjoyments. Let reason teach him to be satisfied with such things as he can enjoy, and not to grieve for thole that are out of his reach; this is true wisdom. But to require that reason should make us voluntarily reject what it is in our power to add to our present enjoy tents, is to contradict nature, and to subvert the first principles of sociability-how shall we persuade man to be content with the scanty pittance that moralists think proper to allow him ? How shall we ascertain the limits of what is necessary, which varies according to his situation in life, his at attainments, and his desires i No sooner had his industry made the means of procuring a subsistence more easy, but be spent his time in extending the limits of his fa cities, and the circle of his enjoyments. Thence sprang all his factitious wants. The discovery of a new species of sensations excited a desire of preserving them, and a propensity to find out others. The perfection of poe art, introduced the knowledge of several others. The success of a war, occasioned by hunger or revenge, suggested the notion of conquer. Navigation put men under a necessity of destroying one another, or of unit ing together. It was the hame v.ith commercial treaties between nations parted by the seas, as with facial com pacts between men scattered upon the same earth. All those connexions began by combat, and ended by associations War and navigation have intermingled societies and colonies. Hence men came to be bound together by dependence or intercourse. The refuse of all nations fixing together during the outrages of war, are refined,and
and polished by commerce. The intent of commerce B o oK is, that all nations should consider themselves as one V. great society, whose members have all an equal right to partake of the conveniences of the rest. The object and the means of commerce equally suppose a desire and a freedom, agreed, upon by all nations, to make all ex changes that may be suitable to both. The desire and the liberty of enjoyment, are the only two springs of in duty, and the only two principles of Sociability among men. THosE who blame the trade of Europe with India have only the following reasons-te sledge against a universal and free intercourse: that it is attended, with a con durable less of men; that it checks the progress of our industry; and that it lessens our stock of money. These objections are easily obviated, As long as every man shall be free to chuse a profession and to make what use he pleases of his faculties, we need not be anxious about his fate. As in a state of freedom, every thing has its proper value, no man will expose himself to any danger, without expecting a pro personable equivalent. In a well regulated society, every individual is at liberty to do what belt suits his inclination and his interest, provided it is not inconsistent with the properties and liberties of others. A law that should prohibit every trade in which a man might endanger his life, would condemn a great part of man kind to starve, and would deprive society of numberless comforts. We need not pass the Line to carry on a dan gerpus trade; and without going out of Europe, we may find many professions that are far more destructive to the human race, than the navigation to India. If the dangers of the sea carry off some of our men, let us give due,-ecouragement to the culture of our lands, and opr population will be so much increased, that we shall be better able to spare those self-devoted victims that are,H 4 swallowed
O o ; swallowed up by the tea. To this we may add, that most V. of those who perish in long voyages, are lost by accidental causes, which might easily be prevented by whole former diet, and a more regular life. But if men will add to the vices of their own climate and manners, the destructive ones of the climates where they land, it is no wonder if they cannot resist these united principles of destruction. EVEN Supposing that the India trade should cost Eu rope as many men as it is said to do, are we very sure that this loss is not made up by the labours to which it gives rise, and which cherish and increase our population ? The men who go abroad, certainly leave their places vacant upon land, to be filled up by others yet unborn. Whoever calls an attentive eye on the multitude of inhabitants that cover the confined territory of maritime nations, will be convinced that it is nor the navigation to Asia, nor even navigation in ge neral, that is detrimental to population, and that on the contrary, it alone may, perhaps, be said to balance all the causes of decay of the human race. Let us now endeavour to invalidate the opinion of those, who ap pretend the India trade interferes with our industry at home. ADMITTING it true that it had put a flop to tome of our labours, it has given rise to many more. It has introduced into our colonies the culture of sugar, coffee, and indigo. Many of our manufactures are kept up by India silk and cotton. If Saxony and other countries in Europe make very fine china; if Valencia weaves Peking, superior to those of China; if Switzerland imitates the muffins and worked callicoes of Bengal; if England and France print linens with great elegance; if so many stuffs, formerly unknown in our climates, now employ our best artists, are we not indebted to India for all these advantages,I.Es.
LET us proceed further, and put the case that we are B o o K pot beholden to Asia for any of our improvements, the V. consumption we make of their commodities cannot be prejudicial to our industry; for we pay for them with the produce of our own manufactures exported to America I sell a hundred livres 1 worth of linen to a Spa niard, and send that money to the East Indies. Another sends the same quantity of the linen itself. We both bring home tea. In the main we are both doing the same thing; we are changing a hundred livres worth of linen into tea: the only difference is, that the one does it by a double, and the other by a single process. Suppose the Spaniard, instead of giving me money, had given me goods that were saleable in India, I should not have injured our artificers by carrying them thither. Is it not the very same as if I had carried our own produce thither ? I fail from Europe with na national manufactures; I go to the South Sea, and ex change them for piastres; I carry those piastres to the Indies; I bring home things that are either useful or pleasing. Have I confined the industry of my country ? Par from it; I have extended the consumption of its produce, and multiplied the enjoyments of my country men. But what misleads the opposers of the India trade is, that the piastres are brought over to Europe before they are carried to Asia. The last point to he considered is, that whether the money is or is not employed as the intermediate mark of exchange, I have either directly or indirectly made ;n exchange with Asia, and bartered goods for goods, my industry for their industry, my produce for their produce. BUT, it is objected by some discontented men, that India has at all times swallowed up all the treasures of the universe. Ever since chance has taught men the use of,S About 41. 7 . 6d. About 41. 7. 6d.,metals,
.0- o g metals, say, tefe censurers, they have never ceased to V. search for them. Pale and restless avarice has taken her,fiand among the barren rocks, where nature had wisely concealed those insidious treasures. Since they were digged out of the bowels of the earth, they have constantly been spreading over its surface, from whence, notwithstanding the extreme opulence of the Romans, and of some other nations, they have disappeared from Europe, Africa, and some parts of Asia. India hath swept them all away. Money till goes the same way; it flows inches. faintly from wef to leaf, and there it fixes, and never finds its way back again. It is for India then, that the mines of Peru have been opened, and it is for its inhabitants that the Europeans have been guilty os.so many crimes in America. Whilst the Spaniards are draining the blood of their slaves in Mexico to dig filter out of the bowels of the earth, the Banians take till more pains to bury it again. If ever the wealth of Potofi should be exhausted, we must go and look for it on the coast of Malabar where we have sent it. When we have drained India of pearls and perfumes, we shall, per laps, go sword in hand, and recover the money it hath cost us. So shall our cruelties and caprices remove the gold and silver into other climes, where avarice and fu perfection will again bury them under ground these complaints are not altogether groundless, Ever since the other parts of the world have opened i communication with India, they have constantly exr changed gold and silver for arts and commodities Na ture has lavished upon the Indians the little they. want; their climate will not admit of our luxuries, and their religion gives them an abhorrence from some things that we feed upon. As their customs, manners and govern. ment have continued the same in the midst of the revolutions that have overturned their country, we must rno expect they Should ever alter. India ever was, and ever,will
still be what it now is. As long as any trade is car B o o K tied on there, money will be brought in, and goods sent v. out. But before we exclaim against the abuse of this trade, we should follow its gradual progress, and see what is the result. FIRST, it is certain our gold does not go to India. They have gold of their own; besides a constant supply from Monomotapa, which comes by the eastern coast of Africa and by the Red Sea; from the Turks, which is brought by way of Arabia and Baffora; and from Persia, which comes both by the ocean and the continent. This enormous mass is never increased by the gold we fetch from the Spanish and Portuguese co ionics. In sort, we are so far from carrying gold to Asia, that for a long while we carried silver to China to barter it against gold. EVEN the silver they get from us is by no means so considerable as may be imagined, from the immense quantity of India goods we bring home. Their annual sale has of late years amounted to a hundred and fifty millions'. Supposing they had cool but half of what they sold for, seventy-five millions ' muff have been sent to India to purchase them, besides what must have been sent over for our settlements. We shall not scruple to affirm, that for tome time past, all Europe put together has not carried thither more than twenty-four millions a year. Eight millions ' are sent from France, fix mil lions x from Holland, three millions Y from England. :three millions z from Denmark, two millions a from Sweden, and two millions b from Portugal. THIS calculation will not appear improbable if re consider, that though in general India is in no * 6,562,5o00. t 3,21,2125 . * 1,o050,0oi. '350o0oo. x 262,5ool. y 13i1,501. 131,2501. J 97,501. > 87,5001.,want
B 0 0 K want either of our produce or of our manufactures, yet,V. lr s- *they receive it from us, in iron, lead, copper woollen goods, and other lesser articles, to the full amount of one fifth of the commodities we buy there. THIS method of payment receives an accession from the produce of the European settlements in Asia. The most considerable by far are those of the spice islands for the Dutch, and of Bengal for the English. THE fortunes made by the free traders and agents in India, mull likewise be deduced from the export. tion of our money. Those industrious men deposit their flock in the coffers of their own, or some other nation, to be repaid them in Europe, whither they all return sooner or later. So that a part of the India trade is car. cried on with money got in the countryside events happen too from time to time, that bring the treasures of the est into our hands. It is unde liable that by the revolutions in the Dean and Bengal, and by disposing of thrones at pleasure, the French and the English have got possession of the wealth accumu. lated for so many ages. It is evident that those suns, joined to others less considerable, must have kept X great deal of money at home, which must otherwise: have gone to Asia. 'TAT rich part of the world has even restored to u some of the treasure we had poured into it. Every body has heard of Kouli-kan's expedition to India, but it i not generally known that he brought away upwards si 2,Oco,ooc,coo ' in specie, or in valuable effets. Thb emperor's palace alone, contained inestimable and inn miserable treasures. The pretence chamber was lined with plate gild; the ceiling glittered with diamonds Twelve pillars of massy gold, adorned with pearls an precious stones, made three sides of the throne; the ca. copy represented a peacock, with his wings extended overshadow the monarch. The diamonds, rubies, ene-",oocepol.,rald.
raids, and all the sparkling gems that composed that B 0 0 t curious piece of workmanship, perfectly imitated the co . lours of that beautiful bird. No doubt part of that wealth is gone back to India. Much of the treasure brought to Persia at the conquest of the Mogul, must have been buried under ground during the subsequent wars; but the several branches of commerce must certainly have brought some to Europe through such well known channels, that it is needless to specify them. ADMITTING that none of these riches have reached us, the cause of those who condemn the trade of India, because it is carried on with coin, will be no gainer by it, which is easily proved. Money is not produced in our fields; it is the produce of America, which is sent us in exchange for our own. If Europe did not send it to Asia, America would soon be unable to send any more to Europe. The too great plenty of it on our con tient would so reduce its value, that the nations who bring it to us, could no longer get it from their colonies. When once an ell of linen cloth, which is now worth twenty fols d, rises to a pistole', the Spaniards cannot buy it of us, to carry it to the country where silver grows. It costs them money to work the mines. When this expence Shall have increased to ten times that sum, and the price of fiver is still the same, the business of work ing in the mines, will be more expensive than profitable to the owners, who of course will drop it. No more gold and silver will come from the new world to the old, and the Americans will be forced to forsake their richest mines, as they have gradually done the poor ones. This event would have taken place before now, if they had not found a way of disposing of about 3,000,000,oo00 in Asia, by the Cape of C hod Hope, or by the Phi pippins. Therefore this 1.'Jufion of .money poured into India, which so many prejudiced: persons have hi-,d lod. . 6. s. gs . f 13i,250,uool.,thcrto
B 0 0 K thereto considered as a ruinous exportation, has been be4,V. official both to Spain, by supporting the only manufacture the can boast of, and to other nations who with out it could never have disposed of their produce, or of the fruits of their industry. Having thus justifie the India trade, we shall next proceed to inquire whe. ther it has been conducted by the principles of found policy. An inquiry ALL the nations in Europe who have doubled the hebllrit Cape of Good Hope, have aimed at founding great em. thatch pres in Afar The Portuguese, who led the way to roj^ ^ those wealthy regions, fits set us the example of a laeefta- boundless ambition. Not content with having made in Inca, in themselves masters of the islands in which the choices odwcar- productions were to be found, and erected fortresses ry on the trade. wherever they were wanted to secure to themselves the navigation of the east, they also aspired to the authority of giving laws to the Malabar, which, being divided into several petty sovereignties, that were jealous of, or at enmity with each other, was forced to submit to the yoke. THE Spaniards did not at.firft'ihew mote moderation; even before they had completed the conquest of the Philippines, which were to be the center of their power, they shrove to extend their dominion further. If they have not since subdued the rest of that immerse Archipelago or filled all the adjacent countries with their enormities, we must look for the cause of their inaction in the treasures of America, Which confined their part suits, though they did not satisfy their desires the Dutch robbed the Portuguese of their best old on the continent, and drove them out of the spice islands. They have kept those possessions, and some later acquisitions only by establishing a forth of government, less faulty than that of the nations on whose ruins they wee rising.,THEs
THE French took such flow and irresolute steps, that B o o K it was long before they could form or execute any great V. projects. As soon as they found themselves sufficiently powerful, they availed themselves of the subversion of-the Mogul authority, to usurp the dominion of Coromandel By artful negociations, they conquered or ob gained a more extensive territory than any European power had ever possessed in Hindostan. THs English more prudent did not attempt to ag grandis themselves till they 'had stripped the French of their acquisitions, and till no rival nation could con tend with them. The certainty of having none but the natives to deal with, determined them to fall upon Ben gal, It was the province of all India, which afforded most commodities fit for the markets of Asia and Eu rope, and was likely to consume most of their manu fractures; and also, that which their flag could best prote, having the advantage of a great river. They have conquered, and they flatter themselves they fall long enjoy the fruits of their victory. THEIR successes, and those of the French, have astonished all nations. It is easy to conceive how soli mary and defenceless islands that have no connexion with their neighbours, may have been subdued. But it is astonishing to the last degree,'that'five or fix hundred Europeans should in our days have beaten innumerable armies of Gentiles and Mahometan, mostly skilled in the art of war. These strange scenes however ought not to appear 'surprising after what we had seen before. THE Portuguese had scarcely begun to appear in the east, when a few Ships and a few foldiers-fubvettedwhole kingdoms. A small number of factories they established, and of forts theyereEted, were sufficient to crush the powers of India. When they-ceased to be oppressed by the firs conquerors, they were so by those who expelled andfucceeded them. The history of those delightful re-scions,
B o o K lions, was no longer the history of the natives, but that's of their tyrants. But what strange people must theft have been, who never could learn wisdom in the school of adversity and experience; who tamely surrendered to their common enemy; who were continually defeated, and yet never knew how to repulse a few adventurers, thrown up as it were out of the sea, upon their coasts? They were so constantly the dupes and the victims of those who attacked them, that one would almost be tempted to think they were not of the same species. The causes of this unaccountable pusillanimity shall be the subjea of our next inquiry, and we shall begin by despotism. ALL nations must necessarily lore their virtue, their courage and their love of independence, in proportion as they depart from the original state of nature ; and it is reasonable to believe that the southern nations of Asia having first college into societies, muff have been the earliest exposed to despotism. Such has been the progress of all associations from the beginning of the world. Another truth equally evident from history is, that all arbitrary power hastens its own destruction, and that re solutions will restore liberty sooner or later, as they are more or less rapid. Few countries, except the Indoflan, but have some time or other recovered their rights, when once they had lost them. Tyrants have fallen a hundred times, but tyranny has always stood its ground civil slavery has been the consequence of political slavery. The Indian is not mailer of his own life; he knows of no law that will protect it from the caprice of the tyrant, or the fury of his agents. He is not master of his own understanding, he is debarred from all studies that are beneficial to mankind, and only allowed such as tend to enslave him. He is not master of his own field; the lands and their produce belong to the sovereign, and it is well if the labourer can earn enough to fubffl him-,f s
self and family. He is not matter of his own industry: A o o K every artist who has had the misfortune to discover v some abilities; is in danger of being doomed to serve the monarch, his lieutenants, or some rich man who has purchased a right to employ him as he pleases. He is ndt mailer of .his own Wealth : he buries his gold under grounds to secure it from the rapacious hand of power, and leaves it there at his death, foolishly imagining it will be of service to him in the next world. No doubt this absolute, arbitrary, and tyrannical authority, with which the Indian is encompassed on all sides, must subdue his spirit, and render him incapable of those generous sacrifices that courage requires. . THE climate of Hindostan is another impediment to there magnanimous exertions. The sloth it inspires is an invincible obstacle to great revolutions, and vigorous oppositions, so common in the northern regions, The body and the mind equally enervated; have only the vir tues and vices of slavery. In the second, or at furthest in the third generation, .the Tartars, the Turks, the Persians, ard even the Europeans, contract the listlessness of the Indians. There natural influences might certainly be conquered by religious or moral inflitutions but the superstitions of the country are strangers to such exalted views. They never promise future rewards to the generous patriot who falls in his country's cause. Whilst they advise, and sometimes command suicide, by the allurement of future delights, they sicily forbid the shedding of blood. THIS was a necessary consequence of the doctrine of transmigration, which must inspire its followers with constant and universal benevolence. They are in con tindal fear of hurting their neighbour, that is, all men and all animals. How can a man be a soldier when he can say, perhaps, the elephant or the horse I am going to knock down may contain my father's foul; perhaps, VOL. II. I the
B o o K the enemy I am going to flay was formerly the head of my,;V. family? Thus in the Indies, religion encourages cow-hardie, the offspring of despotism and of the climate: the manners of the people contribute till more to in crease it. IN every country, the passion of love is the ruling pas son, but it is not pursued with the same eagerness in every climate. The northern nations indulge it with decency and moderation i whereas the southern ones give a loose to it with unbounded licentiousness. The policy of princes has sometimes turned this propensity to the advantage of society; but the lawgivers of the Indies seem to have had nothing in view but to increase the fatal influences of their ardent climate. The Moguls, the last conquerors of those regions, have fill surpassed them. Love is to them but a shameful and destructive debauchery, consecrated by religion, by the laws, and by government. The military conduct of the nations of Hindostan, whether Pagans or Mohammedanss, is answerable to their dissolute manners. We shall mention some particulars, taken from the writings of an English officer, remarkable for his military exploits in those parts. THE soldiers make up the smallest part of the Indian camps. Every trooper is attended by his wise, his children and two servants, one to look after his horse, and the other to forage. The train of the officers and generals is proportionable to their vanity, their fortune and their rank. The sovereign himself, when he takes the field, more intent upon making a parade of his magnificence than upon the necessities of war, carries along with him his seraglio, his elephants, his court, and almost all the in habitants of his capital. The necessity of providing for the wants, the fancies and the luxury of this strange multitude, must naturally sor;n a kind of town in the midst of the army, full of magazines and unnecefary,articles.
articles. The motions of such an unw-cildy mars can B o o 1 hot but be very flow. There is great confusion in v. their marches, and in all their operations; However abstemious the Indians, and even the Moguls may be, there must often be a want of provisions, and famine brings on contagious distempers, and a dreadful mortality THtEb distempers seldom carry off any but recruits. Though in general, the inhabitants of Hindostan asses a great passion for military glory, they are not fond of the profession. They who have been so successful in battle as to obtain honourable titles, arc excused from serving for orme time; and there are few that do not avail themselves of this privilege. The retreat of there veterans reduces the army to a despicable assemblage of soldiers levied irn haste in the several provinces of the empire, who are utterly unacquainted with discipline. TIE manner in which these troops live, is answerable to so faulty a constitution. At night they eat a very great quantity of rice, and after supper, they take Tome drugs that lay them fast asleep. Notwithstanding this bad habit, they place no guard about their camp ta prevent their being surprised; nor can any thing prevail upon a soldier to rise early, for the execution of'projects that require the greatest dispatch. THE birds of prey, with which they are always plentifully provided regulate their operations. If they find them heavy or benumbed, it is a bad omen, and pre vents their marching out to battle : if they are fierce and angry they prepare for battle, whatever reasons they might have for delaying it. This superstition, together With the observance of lucky and unlucky days, decides' the fate of the best concerted projects. THEY observe no order in their marches. Every fol tier goes on as he likes, and only follows the' bulk of the corps he belongs to. He is frequently seen carry-,1 2 ing
3 O OK ing his provisions upon his head, together with the , - utensils for dressing them; whilst his arms are carried,by his wise, who is commonly followed by several children If a foot soldier has any relations or business in the enemy's army, he will quietly go there, and return to join his colours without meeting with the least op position. THE action is no better conducted than the preparatives to it. The cavalry, in which consists the whole strength of an Indian army, as the infantry are held in great contempt, fight tolerably with the sword and spear, but can never stand the fire of cannon or mufquet. They are afraid of losing their horses, which are mostly Ara bin, Persian or Tartarean, and are their whole fortune. Those who belong to this corps are well respected and well paid, and are so fond of their horses, that some times they will go in mourning for them. .THE Indians dread the enemy's artillery, as much as they confide in their own, though they neither know how to bring it along, nor how to make use of it. Their great guns, which are called by pompous names, are mostly of a prodigious size, and rather prevent than assis the gaining of a victory. THOSE who are ambitious of being distinguished intoxicate themselves with opium, imagining that it warms the blood, and qualifies them for heroic actions. In this state of intoxication, their dress and impotent rage, make them bear a greater resemblance to fanatical women than to resolute men. THE prince who commands these despicable troops, always rides on an elephant richly caparisoned, where he is at once the general and the standard of the whole army, whose eyes are fixed upon him. If he flies, he is slain; the whole machine is destroyed; the several corps disperse, or go over to the enemy.,THIS
THIS description, which we might have enlarged B o o K upon without exaggeration, confirms the probability of V. our successes in Hindostan. Many Europeans themselves, judging of what might be done in the inland parts, by what has been done along the coasts, imagine we might without rashness undertake the conquest of the whole country. The circumstance that makes them so con sident is, that in places where no enemy could harass them in the rear, nor intercept the expected succours they have overcome timorous weavers and mer chants, undisciplined and cowardly armies; weak princes jealous of each other, and always at war with their neighbours, or their own fubjeas. They do not consider, that if they were to penetrate into the in terror parts, they would all perish before they had got half way. They would be spent with the excessive heat of the climate, continual fatigue, numberless diseases want of provision, and a thousand other causes of inevitable death, even though no troops should harass them. WE will suppose, however, that ten thousand Euro pean soldiers had actually overrun and ravaged India from one end to the other; what would be the consequence ? Would these forces be sufficient to secure the conquest, to keep every nation, every province, every district in order; and if this number is not sufficient, let it be calculated what number of troops would be necessary for this purpose. LET us suppose that the government was firmly established this would scarcely add any advantage to the situation of the conquering party. The revenues of Hindostan, will be spent in Hindostan itself. The Euro pean power that has conceived this project of usurpation, would have nothing left, but a large vacant and depopulated space, and the disgrace of having pursued chi medical ideas.,I 3 Thin
B - 0 K THIS, indeed, is now an useless question, since the .' v Europeans themselves have made their success in Indoltan,more difficult than ever. By associating the natives to their mutual jealousies, they have taught them the art of war, and trained them up to arms and discipline. This impolitic conduce has opened the eyes of the so reigns of those countries, whose ambition has been excited to establish regular troops. Their cavalry moves in better order; and their infantry, which was always considered in so despicable a light, has now acquired the firmness of our battalions. A numerous and well ordered artillery has defended their camps, and pro tested their attacks. The armies, better composed, and better paid, have been able to keep the field longer this change, which might have been foreseen had we not been blinded by temporary interest, may in time become so considerable, as wholly to prevent our attempting any further conquests in Indoflan, and possibly we may lose those we have already made. Whether this will be a misfortune or an advantage, is what we shall next take into consideration. WHEN the Europeans first began to trade in that wealthy region, they found it divided into a great many small states, some of which were governed by princes of their own nation, and some by Satan kings. Their mutual hatred was the occasion of continual wars. Be sides the wars between province and province, there was a perpetual one between every sovereign and his subjects. It was fomented by the tax-gatherers, who to ingratiate themselves at court, always levied heavier taxes than had been laid on the people. These barbarians ag granted this heavy burden by distressing and vexing the inhabitants. Their extortions were a means of keep ing their places, in a country where he is always in the right who has most to give.,FROM
FROM this anarchy and these violent proceedings, B o o K we judged that to fettle a safe and permanent corn v. mere, we must put it under the protection of arms; and we fortified our fairies. In process of time, jealousy which divides the Europeans nations in the In dies, as it does every where else, exposed them to more considerable expences. Each of there foreign nations thought it necessary to augment their forces, left they should ibe overpowered by their rivals. OUR dominion, however, extended no further than our own fortresses. Goods were brought thither from the inland parts, peaceably enough, or at least without insuperable difficulties. Even after the conquests of Kouli-kan had plunged the north of Hindostan into con fusion, the coast of Coromandel enjoyed its former tranquility. But the death of Nizam Muluc, Souba of the Dean, kindled a flame which is not yet fully ex extinguished. THE disposal of those immense spoils, naturally be longed to the court of Dehly ; but the weakness of that court emboldened the children of Nizam to dispute their father's treasure. To supplant each other, they had recourse alternately to arms, to treachery, to poison, and to assassinations. Molt of the adventurers they en gaged in their animosities and crimes, perished during these horrid transactions. The Marattas alone, a na tion who Sometimes took part with one, and sometimes with another, and often had troops in all parties, seemed to bid fair for reaping the benefit of this anarchy, and invading the sovereignty of the Dean. The Europe ans have pretended it was greatly their interest to oppose this deep but secret design, and they alledge the follow ing reasons in their defence. The Marattas, say they, are thieves, both from education and from their political principles. They have no regard to the law of nations, no notion of natural or,I 4 civil
oo K civil right, and carry desolation wherever they go. The . most populous countries are turned into a desert, at the,very report of their approach. In the countries they have subdued, nothing is to be seen but confusion, and all the manufactures are destroyed the Europeans, who were strongest on the coast of Coromandel, thought such neighbours would utterly ruin their trade, and they could never venture to send money by their couriers to buy goods in the inland countries, as they would certainly be robbed by this banditti. The desire of preventing this evil, which muff ruin their fortunes, and rob them of the fruit of their settlements, suggested to their agents the idea of a new system. THEY. gave out that in the present situation of In doftan, it was impossible to keep up useful connections without the protection of an army, and a military efta- L!iihmcnt. That at so great a distance from the mother country, the expence could not possibly be defrayed out of the mere profits of trade, were they ever so great. That therefore it was absolutely necessary to procure sufficient possessions to answer those enormous calls, and consequently that the possessions must not be small ones. THIS argument, probably contrived by insatiable greediness and boundless ambition, and which the too common passion for conquest found to be a very weighty one, may, perhaps, be a mere sophism. A va piety of physical, natural, moral and political reasons may be urged in opposition to it. We shall only in sift upon one, which is a matter of sac. From the Portuguese, who first attempted to aggrandize themselves in India, down to the English, who closed the fatal lift of usurpers, not one acquisition, great or small, except Bengal and the spice islands, has ever paid the expence of taking and keeping it up. The larger the poflefiions,,me more they have proved chargeable to the ambitious,powev
power that had them, by whatever means they acquired B o o C them. YV THIS will always be the case. Every nation that has obtained a large territory, will be desirous of keeping it. They will think there is no safety but in fortified places, and will multiply them without end. That warlike ap appearance will frighten away the husbandman and the artist, who will not expect to live peaceably. The neighbouring princes will grow jealous, and will justly be afraid of falling a prey to a merchant turned conqueror. In con sequence of this, they will be devising means to ruin an oppressor, whom they had admitted into their har hours, with no other view than to increase their own treasures and power. If they enter into a treaty with him, they will sign it, swearing in their hearts the de fruition of their new ally. Falshood will be the basis of all their agreements; and the longer they have been forced to dissemble, the more time they will have had to whet the dagger destined to stab their enemy. THe well-grounded fear of these perfidies will oblige the usurpers to be always upon their guard, and to maintain a force sufficient to repel their attempts. If they must be defended by Europeans, what a con gumption of men for the mother country! What an expence to rails them, to send them over, to main tain and to recruit them ! If, from a principle of economy, they content themselves with the Indian soldiery, what can be capered from a confused rabble, whose expeditions always degenerate into robbery, and habitually end in a shameful and precipitate flight. Their moral and natural sentiments are so loose, that even the defence of their gods and their own households, sould never inspire the boldest among them with any thing beyond a few transient fits of intrepidity. It is pot very likely that foreign interests, ruinous to their Country, should quicken their inactive and corrupt,fouls,
0 6 K t ours, or raise any degree of spirit in their debated minds; V. is it not rather to be expected that they will be ever ready to betray an odious cause, in which they find no immediate and lasting advantage ? To these inconveniences will be added a spirit of ex portion and plunder, which even in the times of the most profound peace, will fall little short of the devastations of war. The agents intruded with those remote con ceres, will be inclined to make rapid fortunes. The flow and regular profits of trade, they will think be neath their notice, and they will halfe revolutions that will lay lacks of rupees at their feet. Their graciousness will have done infinite mischief, before it can be controlled by authority, at the distance of fix thousand leagues. The reformers will have no power against millions, or they will come too late to prevent the fall of an edifice built on a sandy foundation this result makes it needless to inquire into the na ture of the political engagements the Europeans have entered into with the powers of India. If these great acquisitions are hurtful, the treaties made to procure them cannot be rational. If merchants are wise, they will forego the rage of conquest, and the flattering hopes of holding the balance of Asia.,THE court of Dehly will finally fink under the weight of intestine divisions, or fortune will raise up a prince capable of restoring it. The government will remain feudal, or once more become despotic. The empire will be divided into many independent states, or it will obey but one master. Either the Marattas or the Moguls will become a ruling power; but the Eu romans have nothing to do with these revolutions; whatever be the fate of Ihdoflan, the Indians will go on weaving and printing, and we shall go 'on buying their callicoes: the reft is a point we are not concerned in.,IT
IT would be in vain to alledge, that the spirit which B o o a has always prevailed in those parts has forced us to de , part from the common rules of trade;"that we are in arms upon the coasts; that our situation unavoidably obliges us to interfere with the affairs of our neigh hours; and that if we keep too much to ourselves, it is the ready way to be undone. These fears will ap pear groundless to sensible people, who know that a war in those distant regions mull be fill more fatal to the Europeans than to the natives, and that the consequence will be, that we must either subdue the whole, which is scarce possible, or be for ever expelled from a country where it is our advantage to keep up our con nations, THE love of order would even make it desireable to extend there pacific views, and far from thinking that great possessions are necessary, we do not despair of be ing able, in time, to do without fortified polls. The Indians are naturally gentle and humane, though crushed under the revere burden of despotism. The nations who traded with them of old, always praised them for their candor and honesty. That part of the world is pow a slate of confusion, equally alarming to them and to us. Our ambition has rowed discord every where, and our rapaciousness has inspired them with hatred, fear, and contempt for our continent; they look upon us as conquerors, usurpers and oppressors, lavish of blood, and greedy of riches. This is the character we have acquired in the east. Our examples have in creased the number of their national views, at the same time that we have taught them to be in guard against purs. IF we had acted among the Indians upon honest principles; if we had shewn them that mutual ad vantage is the basis of commerce; if we had encrusted their cultivation, and manufactures by exchanges,alike
1 o o K alike advantageous to them and to us; we should in,' ,sensibly have gained their hearts. If we had fortunately taken care to preserve their confidence in our dealings with them, we might have removed their prejudices, and, perhaps, changed their form of government. We should have succeeded so far as to have lived amongst them, and trained up civilized nations around us, who would have protected our settlements for our mutual in interests. Every one of our establishments would have been to each nation in Europe as their native country, where they would have found a sure protection. Our situation in India is the consequence of our profligacy, and of the sanguinary systems we have introduced. The Indians imagine nothing is 'ue to us, because all our actions have shewn that we did not think ourselves under any ties with refpea to them this state of perpetual contention is irksome to most of the Asiatic nations, and they ardently wish for a change. The disorder of our affairs muff have made us join in this wish. If we are all in the same dispositions and if one common interest really inclines us to peace and harmony, the best way to attain this desire able end would perhaps be, that all the European na tions who trade to India, should agree among them selves to maintain a neutrality in those remote seas, which should never be interrupted by the disturbances, that so frequently happen on our own continent. If we could once consider ourselves, as members of one great commonwealth, we should not want those forces which make us odious abroad, and ruin us at home. But as our preCept spirit of discord will not permit us to expect that such a change can soon take place, it re mains only that we now consider, whether Europe ought fill to carry on the India trade by charter corn panes, or to make it a free trades
IF this question were to be decided upon general B o o K principles, it would be easily answered. If we a&k when ther, in a state, which allows any particular branch of Whether trade, every citizen has a right to partake of it; the an ought lay fw.er is so plain as to leave no room for discussion. It open estrade to In would be unnatural, that subjects who share alike the dia,orcarry burden and public expences of civil society, should not iron byhx-,rclufvechar- be alike partakers of the benefits arising from the corn terms. pa that unites them; they would have cause to com plain, that they sustain all the inconveniences of the institution, and are deprived of the benefits they expected to receive from it. ON the other hand, political notions are perfectly reconcilable with there ideas of justice. It is well known that freedom is the very foul of commerce, and that nothing else can bring it to perfection. It is well known, that competition awakens industry, and gives it all the vigour it is capable of acquiring. Yet for upwards of a century, the practise has constantly been con transitory to there principles. ALL the nations of Europe, that trade to India, carry on that commerce by exclusive companies; and it must be confessed, that this praise is plausible, because it is hardly conceivable that great and enlightened nations Should have been under a mistake for above a hundred years on so important a point, and that neither experience nor argument should have undeceived them. We must conclude therefore that either the advocates for li betty have given too great a latitude to their principles, or the favourers of exclusive privilege have too strenuous asserted the necessity of such limitations; possibly, both parties, from too great an attachment to their re fpeaive opinions, have overshot the mark, and are equally disant from the truth. EVER since this famous question has been debated, it has always been thought to be a very simple one; it,has
3 o K has always beer supposed. that an India company turf,. necessarily be exclusive, and that its existence was essentially connected with its privilege. Hence the advocates for freedom have asserted that exclusive privileges wert odious; and, therefore, that there ought to be no coni any. Their opponents have argued on the contrary; that the nature of things required a company; and therefore that there must be an exclusive charter. But if we can make it appear fiat the reasons against charters prove nothing against companies, and that the circum stances which make it necessary to have ah India com any, do not supply any argument in favour of a charter; if we can demonstrate that the nature of things requires, indeed, a powerful association, a company for the India trade; but that the exclusive charter is con necked only with particular causes, insomuch that the company may exits without the charter, we shall then have traced the source of the common error, and found' out the solution of the difficulty. LET us inquire what constitutes the particular nature of commercial transactions ? It is the climate, the pro duce, the distance of places, the form of government, the genius and manners of the people who live rider it. In the India trade, we must go fix thousand miles off to fetch the commodities which those countries afford: we must get there at a certain season, and wait till another for the proper winds to return home. Therefore every voyage takes up about two years, and the owners must wait these two years for their returns. This is the sirs' and a very material circumstance the nature of a government in which there is neither safety nor property will not permit the people to keep any public markets, or to lay up any flores. Let us represent to ourselves men who are depressed and corrupted by despotism, workmen who are unable to undertake any thing by thetnftvees; aid on-the other's hand,
hand, nature more fruitful in her gifts, than power is ra B 6 o K. spacious, supplying a slothful people with food sufficient for *-. their wants and their desires; and we shall wonder that any industry should be found in the Indies. And indeed we may safely say, that hardly any thing would manufactured there, if we did nqt go and encourage the workmen with money in our hands, or if we did: not take care to bespeak the goods we want, a year before hand. One third of the money is paid at the time of bespeaking the work, another when it is half done, and the rest on the delivery of the goods. From this mode of payment results a wide difference, both in the price and in the quality of the goods; but hence results like wise the necessity of always having a Stock in hand, so that it remains out a year the longer, that is, three years instead of two. This is an alarming circumstance for a private man, especially if we consider the large ness of the stock that is requisite for such undertakings As the charges of navigation and the risques are immense, they cannot be supported without bringing home compleat cargoes, that is, cargoes of a million or a million and a half of livres g, at prime cot in the Indies. Where shall we find merchants, or even men of fortune, who can afford to advance. such a sum to. be reimbursed only at the end of three years.? Un undoubtedly there are very few in Europe; and among those who might have the power, scarce any would have the will. If we consult experience, we.ihall find that men of moderate fortunes only, are-the persons who are inclined to run great risques, in. order to make. great profits. But when once a man is possessed of an ample fortune, he is inclined to enjoy it, and enjoy it with safety. Not that riches can quench the.thiril,8 About 54,7001. on an averags-,after
B O O K after them; on the contrary, they are often the occasions,, of it; but at the same time they furnish a thousand means of gratification without either trouble or danger. This opens to our view the necessity of entering into associations, where a number of men will not scruple to be concerned, because every individual will venture but a small part of his fortune, and will rate the mea sure of his profits upon the united stock of the whole society. This necessity will appear still more evident if we consider how the business of buying and selling is managed in India, and what precautions it requires. To contra beforehand for a cargo, above fifty different agents must be employed, who are'difperfed in different parts, at the distance of three, four and five hundred leagues from each other. When the work is done, it muff be examined and measured, otherwise the goods would soon be found faulty from the dishonesty of the workmen; a rice they are but too much addicted to from the nature of their government, and from the in Spence :of these various crimes of which the Europeans have set them the example for these three centuries palt. AFTER all these details, there are still other opera tions remaining not less necessary to be done. They muff employ whispers, men to beat the linens, packers, and even bleaching grounds, with pools of water fit for the purpose. It would certainly be very difficult for in individuals, to attend and to observe all there precautions; but supposing that by dint of industry it might be offered, it could not be carried on any longer than each of them could keep up a continued trade, and regularly ship off fresh cargoes. All these particulars are not to be executed in a short time, and not without established connections. Every private man, therefore, should be able to fit out a ship annually during three years, that is, to disburse four millions,of
bs livres h. This is evidently impossible, and it is plain B o o K that such an undertaking is only to be compassed by V. a society. BUT, perhaps, hothouses may be established in India, to carry through the preparatory business, and to keep cargoes in readiness for the ships that are to be Lent off to Europe. THIS establishment of trading houses at fix thousand leagues from the mother country, with the immense sock that would be requisite to pay the weavers before hand, seems to be a visionary scheme, inconsistent with reason and experience. Can it be seriously imagined that any merchants who have already acquired a for tune in Europe, will transmit it to Asia to purchase stock of muffins in expectation of hips that, perhaps, may never arrive, or if they should, may be but few in number, or may not be able to purchase ? O; the con tray, we see that every European who has made a small fortune in India, is intent upon returning home, arid instead of trying to increase it by the easy means that private trade offers in those parts, as well as the service of the companies they all wish to come and enjoy it quietly at home; IF more proofs and instances were wanting, we need but attend to what passes in America. If we could suppose that commerce, and the hopes of the pro fits arising from it, Were capable of alluring rich Euro means to quit their native country, it would certainly be to go and fettle in that part of the world, which is much nearer than Alla, and where they would find the laws and manners of Europe. It might naturally be sup pored that the merchants should buy up the sugars be fore-hand of the planters and keep them in readiness to be delivered to the European ships as soon as they,175,000 1; Vo., IL. K prive;
.-2-o O-K arrive, on receiving other commodities in exchange,. , which they would afterwards sell to the planters when they wanted them. But it is quite the contrary. The merchants fettled in American no more than commits series or factors, who transact the exchanges between the planters and the Europeans, but are so little in .a condition to carry on a brisk trade on their own account, that when a ship has not met with an opportunity of disposing of her lading, it is left in trust, on the account of the captain, in the hands of the commis far to whom it was consigned. It is reasonable, there. fore, to conclude, that what is not practised in America, would still be less so in Asia, where a larger stock would be wanted, and greater difficulties must be encountered. Add to this, that the supposed establishment of trading houses in'India would not supercede the necessity of so cities in Europe; because it would be equally necessary to disburse twelve or fifteen hundred thousand livres i foi the fitting out-of every ship, which could never return into the stock till the third year at soonest this necessity being once proved in every possible case, !it is manifest that the trade of India is of such a nature, that very few merchants, if any, can undertake it upon *their own bottom, or carry it on by themselves, anr-without the help of a great-number of associates. Ha. wing demonstrated the necessity of these societies, thk next thing to reproved is, that their interest and ths - nature of things would incline-them to unite in one ae the same company. THIS proposition depends upon two principal reasons .the danger of competition in the purchafes:and fales,.aii the necessity of ,assortment. * THE competition of buyers. and' fellers reduces th-commodities to their just value. W~hen.the competitive About 6o,eo 1. on an average. : .
of fellers is greater than that of buyers, the goods sell B o o for less than they are worth; and when there are more . buyers than fellers, their price is raised beyond their ordinary value. Let us apply this to the India trade. WHEN we suppose that this trade will extend in pro portion to the number of private ships sent there, we are not aware that this multiplicity will only increase the competition oh the side of the buyers, whereas it is not in out power to increase it on the side of the fellers. It is just the same thing as if we were to advise a num ber of traders to go and outbid one another, to get their goods the cheaper. THE Indians make hardly any consumption of the produce either of our lands or of our industry. They have few wants, little ambition, and no great industry. They would easily go without the gold and silver of America, which is so far from procuring them any enjoy ments, that it only serves to support the tyranny under Which they are oppressed. Thus, as all objects of ex change have no value but in proportion to the wants or the fancy of the exchangers, it is evident that in India our commodities are worth very little, whilst those we buy there are of.great value. Along as we shall see no Indian (hips come into our harbours to fetch away our stuffs and our metals, we may venture to affirm that .those people are not in want of us, and will consequently make their own terms in all their dealings with us. .Hence it follows, that the greater number there are of European merchants who are concerned in this trade, the more the produce of India will rise, and our own fink, in value; and that at last it will be only by immense exports that we hall be able to procure any India goods at all. But if, in consequence of this order of things, each particular society is obliged to export moe money, .without bringing home more goods, they .tuft carry en a long trade, and the, same competition that began 3 thei
B O O K their ruin in Asia, will complete it in Europe; because. the number of fellers being then greater, whilst the num-ber of buyers is still the same, the Societies will be obliged to sell at a lesser rate, after having bought at an advanced price the article of assortments is not less important. By assortments is meant the combination of all the several forts of commodities that the different parts of India pro duce; a combination which is proportioned to the pre sent plenty or scarcity of each kind of commodity in Eu rope. On this chiefly depends the success and all the profits of the trade. But nothing would be more difficult in the practice for private societies, than this assortment. How, indeed, should those circumscribed and unconnected societies, whose interest it is to conceal their operations from each other, acquire the knowledge that is requisite for this important purpose ? How could they dire such a multitude of agents as must be em played ? It is plain that the supercargoes and commis series incapable of general views, would be all asking for the same fort of goods at the same time, in hopes of making a greater profit. This would of course enhance the price of that article in India, and lower it in Eu rope, to the great detriment of the owners, and of the nation in general. ALL these considerations would certainly not escape the captains of Ships and monied men, who would be so limited to enter into these societies. They would be discouraged by the fear of standing in competition with other societies, either in the buying, selling, or making up the assortments. The number of these societies wouhl soon be reduced, and trade, instead of extending, would be daily contracted into a narrower circle, and finally be quite dropped.,IT would, therefore, be for the interest of these private societies, as we have before observed, to unite together; Because then all their agents both on the coast of Coro-,mande!,
mantel, and on that of Malabar and in Bengal, being B O O K united and directed by one consistent system, would ' jointly labour in the several factories, to collect proper assortments for the cargoes that were to be sent away from the chief factory, so that the whole should make a compleat assortment when brought home, being collected upon a uniform plan, and proportioned according to the orders and instructions sent from Europe. BuT it would be in vain to expect that any such union could take place without the concurrence of go government. In some cases, men require to be encouraged and it is chiefly, as in the present instance, when. they are afraid of being denied that protection which they stand in need of, or apprehensive that favours may be granted to others, which may be injurious to them, Government would find it their interest to encourage this association, as it is certainly the surest, if not the only way to procure at the cheapest rate, the India goods that are wanted for home consumption, and for exportation This truth will appear more striking from a very simple instance. LET us suppose a merchant, who freights a ship for India with a considerable flock. Will he commission fe vernal agents at the same place to buy the goods he wants ? Certainly not; because he will be sensible that by executing his orders with great secresy, each of them would injure the other, and must necessarily enhance the price of the goods; so that lie would have a smaller quantity of the commodity for his money than if he had employed but one agent. The application is easy; government is the merchant, and the company is the agent. WE have proved hitherto that in the India trade, the nature of things requires that the fubjefs of one country should unite into one company, both for their own in tcrecl and for that of the slate; but nothing has yet ap-,K i pearce,
B 0 0 K pealed, from whence it can be inferred that this com ,^v ppany must be an exclusive one. We imagine on the contrary, that the exclusive privilege always granted to these companies, relates to something that is quite so reign to the essence of this trade. When the several nations in Europe began to find that it was their interest to take a part in the trade of India, which individuals refused to do, though that com :fierce had long been open to all, they found themselves under a necessity of forming companies, and giving them all the encouragement that so difficult an undertaking required. They lent them money; they decorated them with all the attributes of sovereign power; they per mitted them to send ambassadors; they empowered them to make peace and war, and unfortunately for them and for mankind, they have made but too much use of that fatal privilege. They found it necessary at the same time to secure to them the means ps indemnifying themselves for the expences of settlements which must be very considerable. This gave rise to exclusive privileges which at first were granted for a term of years, and afterwards made perpetual from the following circumstances THE brilliant prerogatives granted to the companies, were in sac so many impediments to trade. The right' of having fortresses, implied the necessity of build ing and defending them: that of having troops, im plied the obligation of paying and recruiting them. The same held good with regard to the permission of sending ambassadors, and concluding treaties with the Indian princes. All this was attended with expences that were merely for Thew, only fit to check the pro griefs of trade, and to intoxicate the agents and factors of the companies, who fancied themselves sovereigns, and acted accordingly.,HATIO~SS
NATIONS, however, found it very convenient to B o o K have a kind of colonies in Alia, which seemed to V. cost them nothing and as it was but reasonable, while the companies bore all the burden of the expences, to secure to them all the profits, the privileges have been continued. But if, instead of attending only to this pretended oeconomy, which could be but temporary, they had extended their views to futurity, and connected all the events which must naturally be brought about in the course of a number of years, they muff have fore seen that the expences of sovereignty which can never be ascertained, because they depend upon numberless po political contingencies, would sooner or later absorb both the profits and the flock of a trading company: that then the public treasury muff be exhausted to assist the chartered company, and that their favours, coming too late, could only repair the mischief already done, but would not remove the cause, and would leave the com panes for ever in a state of mediocrity and languor. BUT why should not governments at last sussex them selves to be undeceived ? Why should they not take upon themselves a charge which properly belongs to them, and the burden of which, after having crushed the companies, must finally fall upon them? There would be then no further need of an exclusive privilege, The companies which now exist, and are valuable on account of their old connections and established credit, should be carefully preserved. The appearance of mo monopoly would vanish for ever, and their freedom might enable them to pursue some new track, which they could not think of, whilst they were encumbered with the charges annexed to the charter. On the other hand, the field of commerce, being open to all the members ot the community, would fertilize and thrive in their hands. They would attempt new discoveries, and form new en berries. T'he.trade from India to India, now sure of a,I*4 m.nar.ket
B o o K market in Europe, would grow brisker, and extend far-,V. ther. The companies attentive to all these operations would measure their dealings by the progress of private trade; and this competition, which would not be in curious to any, would be beneficial to the several states.,WE apprehend this system would conduce to reconcile all interests, and is consistent with all principles. It seems to be liable but to one rational objection, either on the part of the advocates for the exclusive charter, or of those who contend for a free trade. IF the former should assert, that the companies with out the exclusive charter would have but a precarious existence, and would soon be ruined by private traders; I should answer them that they were surely then not in earnest, when they affirmed that private trade could never succeed. For, if it is able to ruin that of the companies, as they now pretend, it can be but by en crossing every branch of their trade against their will, by a superiority of powers, and by the ascendent of li betty. Besides, what is it that really constitutes our companies ? It is their stock, their ships, their factories, and not their exclusive charter. What is it that has always ruined them ? Extravagant expences, abuses of all kinds, visionary undertakings; in a word, bad administration far more destructive than competition. But if the distribution of their powers is made with prudence and oeconomy; if the spirit of property directs their operations, there is no obstacle which they cannot fur mount, no success which they may not expect. IF this success alarms the advocates for freedom, if they should say on the other hand, that those rich and powerful companies would terrify private men, and partly destroy that general and absolute freedom which is so necessary to trade; we should not be surprised to hear them start this objection; for men are almost always guided by reports, both in their actions and opinions.,I dq
I do not except from this error the greatest part of n o o K our writers upon revenue. Commercial and civil li V betty are the two tutelar deities of mankind, which we all reverence as well as they. But we are not to be (educed by words, we chuse to attend to the idea they are meant to convey. I would ark those referable en thuliafts for liberty, what they would wish; whether they would have the laws abolish the very name of those ancient companies, that every citizen might boldly rush into the trade, and that they should all have the same means of procuring enjoyments, and the same resources to raise a fortune. But if such laws, with all that pa rade of liberty, are in fat very exclusive laws, let not thedeceitfulnefs of this language induce us to adopt them. When the state allows all its members to carry on a trade that requires a large flock, and which consequently very few are able to undertake, I would ask what the bulk of the nation sets by this regulation, It seems as if we meant to expose their credulity, in permitting them to undertake impossibilities. If we totally suppress the companies, there will be no India trade at all, or it will be only carried on by a few capital merchants. I WII.L go further still, and, bating the article of the exclusive charter, I will venture to affirm that the India company, by the manner in which they are fettled, have made many people sharers in their trade, who would otherwise never have been concerned in it. Consider what a number of proprietors in every station and of all ages partake of the profits of this trade, and you will allow that it would have been far more circumscribed if it had been in private hands; that the existence of com panes has only diffused it, whilst it seemed to restrain it; and that the moderate price of the thames must be a powerful motive to the people, to wish for the preservation of an establishment, which opens to them a track,that
B:O 0 K that would for ever have been shut against them, by a,v. free trade.,Ist truth, we believe that companies and private men might equally prosper without injuring one another, or creating. any jealousies between them. The companies might still purse those great objects, which, by their nature and extent, can only be managed by a wealthy and powerful association. Private men, on the contrary, would confine themselves to such object as are in a manner overlooked by a great company, but might, by proper oeconomy, and the combination of many small powers, become a source of riches to the parties con cerned.,IT muff be left to statesmen, who by their talents are called te the management of public affairs, to decide upon the notions of an obscure citizen, who may have been misled by his want of experience. The system of optics-cannot too soon nor too deeply be applied to re regulate a trade which so essentially concerns the fate of nations, and will, probably, always be an affair of the patriot coafequenee.,To put an end to all intercourse between Europe and India, that luxury which has made such rapid progress in our part of the world, should be banished from every fate. Oar effeminacy should not create a thousand wants, unknown to our forefathers. The rivalfhip of trade hould no longer agitate the several nations who vie with each other in amassing riches. There should be such revolutions in the manners, customs, and opinions of men, as are never likely to happen. We should re turn within the limits of nature, which we seemed to have abandoned for ever such are the last reflections suggested to us with re space to the connections of Europe to Asia: let us now turn our thoughts to America.,BQO~
B 0 0 K VI. PiJrovery of America. Conquest of Mexico and fettjiment,of the Spaniards in that part of the new world. A Ancient history presents to us a magnificent B O Obscene. The continued representation of great re , solutions, heroic manners, and extraordinary events will Parallel of become more and more interesting, the more uncommon ancient 4 it is to find occurrences that bear any resemblance to hiory. them. The time of founding and of destroying empires is past. The man, before whom the world was silent, is no more. The different nations of the earth, after repeated shocks, and long and obstinate struggles between ambition and liberty, seem at lait settled in the wretched tranquillity of servitude. They now employ thunder in their battles, for the fake of taking a few towns, and gratifying the whims of a few powerful men: they for merely employed the sword to ruin and to establish king dons, or to avenge the natural rights of mankind. Our history is become insipid and trifling, yet we are not be come more happy. A regular and daily oppression has succeeded to the troubles and storms of conquest; and we see with indifference the various ranks of slaves com bating each other with their chains for the amusement of their masters. EuROPE, that part of the globe, which has most in fluence over the rest, seems to have fixed itself on a solid and durable foundation. It is composed of communi ties that are almost in the same degree powerful, en-lightened,
B o o K lightened, extended, and jealous. They encroach per.,v'* equally upon each other; and in the midst of discontinued fluctuation, some will gain and others lose, and the balance will alternately incline to different sides, without ever being entirely destroyed. The fa fanaticism of religion, and the spirit of conquest, those two disturbers of the universe operate no longer. That great machine, whose extremity was attached to the earth, and whose center of motion was in heaven, is now broken ; and kings begin to discover (though not for the happiness of their people, who attract but little of their attention, but for their own private interest) that the great end of government is to obtain riches and fe. purity. Hence they keep up large armies, fortify their frontiers, and encourage trades SPIRIT of barter and exchange hath arisen in Eu rope, that feeing to open a vast scene of speculation to adventurers, but can only subsist in the midst of peace and tranquillity. A war, among commercial nations, is a conflagration that destroys them all; it is an action, which brings the whole fortune of a great merchant into question, and makes all his creditors tremble. The time is not far off, when the tacit fashion of govern. ment will extend to the private engagements between subject of different nations; and when those bankrupt lies, the effects of which are felt at immense distances, will become matters of state. In these mercantile states, the discovery of an sand, the importation of a new commodity, the invention of some useful machine, the construction of a port, the establishment of a factory, the carrying off a branch of trade from a rival nation, there will be esteemed atchievements of the highest import ance ; and the annals of nations will in future be writ ten by commercial philosophers, as they were formerly by historical orators.,THE
THE discovery of a new world'would alone be sus B o o K ancient to furnish employment for our curiosity. A Vi raft continent entirely uncultivated, human nature re duce to the mere animal state, fields without harvests, treasures without proprietors, societies without policy, and men without manners, what an interesting and in firuaive spectacle would there have formed for a Locke, a Buffon, and a Montesquieu ! What history could be so wonderful, so delightful, so affecting as the detail of their journey ! But the stamp of rude unpolished nature is already disfigured. VWe shall endeavour to collect the features of it, though now half effaced, as soon as we have made the reader acquainted with those rapacious and cruel christians, whom an unhappy chance sirs brought to this further hemisphere. SPAIN, which was known in the first ages under the Ancient re names of Hesperia and Iberia, was inhabited by people, plain" who, defended on one side by the sea, and on the other by the Pyrenees, enjoyed in peace an agreeable climate, a plentiful soil, and governed themselves according to ,their own customs. The southern part of this nation had in some degree emerged from its slate of barbarism, by the firing connections it maintained with foreigners; but the inhabitants of the coasts on the ocean con tinged to resemble all those nations, which know no other occupation but that of the chace. They were so attached to this kind of life, that they left the toils ot agriculture to their wives; the fatigues of which they had brought them to support by establishing general as assemblies annually, in which those who had most distinguished themselves in the exercise of cultivation, received public applause. SUCH was the situation of Spain, when the Carthaginian cast their longing eyes on a country filled with riches, of which its inhabitants were entirely ignorantly These
B o o K These merchants, whose ships covered the Mediter-,VI. ranean, introduced themselves in the quality of friends who offered numberless commodities in return for useless metals. The temptations of a trade so advantageous in appearance, blinded the Spaniards to that degree, that they permitted the Carthaginianssss to build upon their coasts houses for their occasional residence, magazines for the security of their merchandise, and temples for the exercise of their religion. There establishments insen. sibly became-fortified places, of which this trading power, whose policy was superior to its arms, availed it self to enslave a credulous nation, always divided within itself and irreconcilable in its enmities. By bribing some and intimidating others, Carthage succeeded in the reduction of Spain by the assistance of Spanish soldiers and Spanish wealth. No sooner were the Carthaginianssss become mailers of the greatest and most valuable part of this fine country, than they shewed that they either knew no; or despised the means of establishing their dominion. Instead of con tinting to appropriate to themselves the gold and silver, with which the conquered nations were abundantly sup plied from their mines, by exchanging for them commodities of little value, they chose to carry off every - thing by force. Nor was this tyrannical disposition peculiar to the republic: the general, the officers, the private men and even the merchants aced upon the same principle. The violence of their proceedings threw the conquered provinces into despair, and made the apprehension of so heavy a yoke intolerable to those which were yet free. In this temper of mind both of them took the resolution of accepting assistance, as fatal to them as their injuries were cruel. Spain became a theatre of jealousy, ambition and hatred between Rome and Carthage.,THE
THE two commonwealths contended wivh.great ob g .ovp,. lunacy for the empire of this fine part .of Europe; and, , perhaps, it would finally have belonged to neither of them, if the Spaniards had continued quiet fpeaatqrs of the quarrel, and left the rival nations time to exhaust each other. But they chore to beene .actors in the bloody scene, and thus reduced themselves to be slaves to the Romans, in which slate they continued till the fifth century. IN a short time the degeneracy of those rafters of the world inspired the savage nations of the north with cou rage to seize upon some provinces that were ill governed and ill defended. There barbarians being robbers by profession, were incapable of becoming citizens; they made war upon each other. The Goths superior in abilities or good fortune subdued the refl,.and reduced all the kingdoms of Spain into one, which, notwithstanding the defeat in its constitution, and the un bounded extortions of the Jews, .who were the only mer chants, supported itself till the commencement of the eighth century. AT this period, the Moors, who had made themselves masters of Africa, with that impetuosity, which was the .characteristic of all their enterprizes, passed the sea. They found a king without virtue and without abilitie*; a multitude of courtiers, and not one minister; soldiers without courage, and generals without experience; an effeminate people, disgusted with the government, and disposed to change; and beside these rebels, who joined them for the fake of plundering, burning, and massacring all that sell in their way. In less than. three years, the sovereignty of the Christians was destroyed, and that. of the infidels established upon a solid foundation SPAIN was indebted to its conquerors for the feeds of taste, humanity,'politencfs, philosophy, ,many arts, antea con
o o K a considerable trade. These flourishing times lasted not . . long. The numberless sets, that arose among the coi-,querors, and the irreparable faults they committed in establishing lifting sovereigns in all the principal towns of their dominion, soon put an end to them during this time the Goths, who, to avoid the Mo mohammedan power, had fixed their asylum in the extremity of the Asturias, were labouring under the yoke of anarchy, plunged in a barbarous state of ignorance, op prest by their fanatical priests, languishing in inexpressible poverty, and perpetually harassed by civil wars. Under the influence of these calamities, far from availing them selves of the divisions among their enemies, they thought themselves sufficiently happy to be forgotten, or not to be known by them. But as soon as the crown, which was originally elective, became hereditary in the tenth century as soon as the nobility and bishops became in capable of disturbing the slate; and the people raised from slavery were admitted to a share of the government, the national spirit began to revive. The Arabians at tacked on every side, were successively stripped of their conquests. At the end of the fifteenth century they had but one little kingdom remaining. THEIR fall would have been more rapid, had they teen engaged with a power, that could have united in one common center, the conquests it gained over them. But this was not the case. The Mohammedanss were at tacked by different chiefs, each of which was at the head of an independent fate. Spain was divided into as many kingdoms, as it contained provinces; and it was not till after a long time, many successions, wars and revolutions, that there petty sates were at last melted down into the two monarchies of Castile and Arragon. After which the marriage of Isabella with Ferdinand, having happily united all the crowns of Spain in one fa-emily,
inly, they found themselves equal to the enterprize of B o o K attacking the kingdom bs Granada. v. THIS slate, which scarcely occupied ole eighth part of the peninsula of Spain, had always been in a flourish ing condition from the time of the invasion of the Sa races: but it grew more prosperous in proportion as the successes of the christians induced a greater number of the infidel inhabitants to take refuge there; at which time it' consisted of three millions of inhabitants; Throughout the rest of Europe there were no lands so well cultivated; filch numerous and improved manufactures so regular and so extensive a navigation. The public revenues amounted to seven millions of livres I; a prodigious sum at a time when gold and silver were very scarce! THESE important advantages, far from deterring the monarchs of Castile and Arragon from invading Granada were the motives that principally stimulated them to the enterprize. It cost them a ten years bloody war to subdue this flourishing province. The conquest of it was completed by the taking of the capital in the be ginning of January, 1492. Itr was in these glorious circumstances, that Chris Columbus tother Columbus, a man of obscure birth, whose know forms the,-toplier~~~ oum.~~ us, au mandefign of ledge of astronomy and navigation was far superior to discovering that of his contemporaries, proposed to the Spaniards who America were happy at home, to aggrandize themselves abroad. He was led by a secret impulse to imagine that there nuit certainly be another continent, and that he was the person destined to discover it. The notion of Anti potes, which superstition had condemned as heretical and impious, and reason itself had treated as chimerical, appeared to this penetrating genius to have its foundation in truth. This idea, perhaps the boldest that ever,x About 306,o0001 VOL. It. L entered
C o o K entered into the heart of man, took strong possession of his . 'imagination, and having in vain proposed the acquisitions a new hemisphere, to his native country Genoa, to Portugal where he then resided, and even to England which he might have expected would have readily em braced every projet of extending its maritime power: he communicated his designs to Isabella.,TaE ministers of this princess who looked upon the scheme of discovering a new world as the project of a distempered brain, treated the author of it for some time with that contemptuous insolence, which true genius often experiences from men in power, whose abilities do not rise beyond the common standard. But no difficulties could discourage Columbus, who like all others that engage in extraordinary enterprizes, had a large share of that enthusiasm, which renders them superior to the cavils of the ignorant, the contempt of the proud, the evasions of the covetous, and the delays of the indolent. At length by dint of perseverance, spirit and courage, assisted by the arts of prudence and address, he fur mounted every difficulty. Having obtained a grant of three small vessels, and ninety men; he set fail on the 3d of August Ie,, with the time of admiral and viceroy of the islands and territories he should discover. HAVING failed a considerable length of time, the Ships crews terrified with the idea of the immense trad of ocean, which lay between them and their native country began to despair of the success of their undertaking. Their discontent rose to that height, that they more than once formed the design of throwing Columbus over board, and returning to Spain. The admiral concealed his chagrin, as well as he could: but finding that a mutiny would immediately ensue, he assured his com pinions that if he did not discover land in three days, he would fail back to Europe. For some time past, on founding, he had found bottom, and-from other circum-defiances
fiances, had good reason to conclude that he was not far B o o K from land. Va. THE new world Was discovered in October. Co Arrivals humbug landed on one of the Lucas or Bahama islands, Cool, b , which he called San-Salvador, and took possession of it world. in the name of Isabella. The Spaniards at that time did not imagine there could be any injustice in seizing upon a country, which was not inhabited by chris trans. THE islanders on seeing the hips, and a race of men so different from their own, were terrified and ran away. The Spaniards caught some of them ; treated them with great civility, and dismissed them loaded with presents. THIS behaviour intirely dissipated the fears of the whole nation: the inhabitants appeared upon the flore without arms. Several of them came on board. They viewed every thing with admiration. Their manner was free and open. They brought fruits. They as seised the Spaniards in getting on shore, by taking them upon their (boulders. The inhabitants of the neigh, pouring islands lowed tie same obliging disposition. The tailors sent by Columbus to make discoveries, every where met with the kindest reception. Men, women, and children, were employed in furnishing them with provisions. They filled the hammocks where they slept, with the finest cotton. But it was gold that the Spa niards wanted, and they soon discovered it. Several of the savages wore ornaments made of this precious metal, which they presented to their new guests: who. on their part were more disgusted with the naked appearance and simplicity of these people, than penetrated with their kindness. They were incapable of discerning in them the genuine characters of nature. Surprized to find men of a copper colour without beards or hair on their bodies, they looked upon them as a race of imperfect animals, who were only to be treated with humanity, till the ne-,L 2 clary
B o o K cellar information was obtained in regard to the neigh;,.v. pouring countries, and the gold mines.,HAVItG taken a view of several smaller islands, Co humbug landed on the north side of a large island called by the natives Hayti; to which he gave the name of Hispaniola, and which is now called San Domingo: he was conduced thither by some savages of the other islands who accompanied him without the least distrust, and gave him to underhand that the great island furnished them with the metal the Spaniards were so soit of. Melons of THE island of Hayti, which is two hundred leagues the peeped oF Hai,. in length, and sixty, and in some places eighty in ''bc- breadth, is divided from ease to weft by a chain of-mount known by ths name of pains, which occupy the center of the island, and are fur hispaniola. the mot part keep. It was distributed into five populous kingdoms, the inhabitants of which lived in per fe amity. Their kings who were called Caciques, were absolute, and much beloved. The complexion of these people was much fairer than in the other islands. They painted their bodies. The men went quite naked. The married women wore a kind of cotton petticoat, which reached no further than their knees. The girls as well as the men, were naked. Their food was maize, roots, fruit, and shellfish. As they were temperate, nimble and active, but not strong, they were averse from labour. They lived free from care in a fate of agreeable indolence. Their time was spent in dancing, diversion and seep. By the accounts the Spaniards give of then, they shewed little marks of genius: and indeed this must be the case with islanders, who living in a state of separation from the ret of mankind, muff of necessity have very confined ideas. Detached societies arrive at im provement by flow and painful advances. They derive no advantages of refinement from those discoveries, which time and experience throw in the way of other people:,and
and their adventures are too few to afford them many op B O O K opportunities of acquiring knowledge, Vl. 'TiE Spaniards themselves confess that these people were humane, void of malice and revenge, and almost diverted of any pillion whatever. They were ignorant, but (hewed desire to be intruded. This indifference and the confidence they reposed in strangers, prove that they were happy. Their history and their notions of morality were contained in a collection of songs, which they learned from their infancy: and they had in com mon with all nations some fables concerning the origin of the human race. WE know little of their religion, to which they paid no great attention; and it is probable that in this respect as well as in many others they have been calumniated by the authors of their destruction; who pretend that there islanders, whose manners were so gentle, paid adoration to a number of malevolent beings. The worshippers of a malevolent deity can never be virtuous. THEY had no law that prescribed any limited number of wives. It was common for one of them to have some privileges and dissensions allotted her i but these gave her no authority over the rest. She was one whom the husband loved the best, and by whom he thought himself best beloved. On the death of her partner, she some times caused herself to be buried in the same grave with him. This was not a custom, a duty, or a points ho your among this people: but the wise found it impossible to survive the object of her tenderest affection. This freedom in love and marriage, which was authorized by ,'leir laws and manners, was by the Spaniards called de debauchery, licentiousness, and vice : and to the pretended t-xcefive indulgence of the islanders in this point, they a:tril, bed the rile of a distemper, which, as a philo Illogical ph) ician has lately demonstrated in a treatise on,L 3 the
B o K the origin of the venereal disease, was known in Europe's. before the discovery of America.,THESE islanders had no other weapons than a bow and arrows made of wood, the point of which, being hard end in the fire, gas sometimes armed with sharp stones, or the bone of a fish. The ordinary Spanish dress was of itself an impenetrable armour against arrows of this kind, shot with little dexterity. These weapons and some small clubs or rather large flicks, which could seldom give a mortal blow, were far from making theft people formidable. THEY were distinguished into different cases, one of which laid claim to a kind of nobility: but we are little acquainted either with the prerogatives annexed to this distinction, or the means of obtaining it. This ignorant and savage people had also sorcerers among them, who were always either the offspring or parents of fu perftition.,CoLaUMsS omitted nothing that might engage the friendship of these islanders. But at the same time he made them sensible, that though he had no inclination to hurt them, he did not want the power. The proofs he gave in their presence of the surprizing efeFts of his artillery, convinced them of the truth of what he add. They looked upon the Spaniards as men d.:fccndzd from heaven, and the presents they received, were, in their estimation, not meer curiosities, but sacred things. This error was productive of great advantages: nor was it re moved by any aa of folly or cruelty. They gave the savages red caps, glass beads, pins, knives, and bells, and received in return gold and provisions. COLUMBUS took advantage of this harmony to fix upon a place for a settlement, which he designed should be the center of all his future process. He erected a so t with the assistance of the islanders, who chearfully laboured to forge chains for themselves. He left thirty-nine
nine Castilians in the place; and having reconnoitred B o K the greatest part of the island, failed for Spain. HE arrived at Palos a port of Andalusia, from whence he had set fail seven months before. He proceeded by land to Barcelona, where the court resided. This voy, age was a triumph. The nobility and people went to meet him, and followed him in clouds to the presence of Ferdinand and Isabella. He presented to them rome islanders, who had voluntarily accompanied him. He produced pieces of gold, birds, cotton, and many cu realities, which were valuable on account of their no velty. Such a variety of uncommon objects exposed to the view of a people, whose vanity inflamed by imagination magnified every thing, made them fancy that they saw an inexhaustible source of riches for ever flowing into their country. The enthusiasm spread and reached even to the throne. At the public audience the sovereign gave to Columbus, he was permitted to be covered, and to fit as a grandee of Spain. He related his voyage to them. They loaded him with caresses, commendations, and honours; and soon after he remarked with seven teen fail to make new discoveries, and to establish co ionics. ON his arrival at San Domingo with fifteen hundred soldiers, three hundred artificers, missionaries, corn, fruits, and such domestic animals as were unknown in the new world ; Columbus found his fortress demolished, and all the Spaniards massacred. It appeared on examination clear to Columbus, that they had drawn this misfortune upon themselves by their haughty, licentious, and tyrannical behaviour: and he had the address to persuade thole who had lets moderation than himself, that it was good policy to postpone their revenge to another time. They employed themselves entirely in scrutinizing the mines, the working of which was one dty to colt so much blood, and in building forts in theol 4 neighbour,
B o o K neighbourhood with sufficient garrisons to protect theirs n labours. Cndtia IN the mean time, the provisions that had been to'adhe brought from Europe, were spoilt by the damp heat of Indians at the climate; and the few hands sent over for the pur H-fpviol. pose of raising vegetables in a country so favourable tother growth, were either dead, or disabled by sickness. The military people were desired to supply their place; but they disdained an employment that was to procure them substance. Indolence began then to be an ho honourable distinction in Spain. To do nothing was esteemed the characteristic of a gentleman: and the meanest soldier chose to live in the high file, in a country where he had the command. The islanders of served them every thing, but they required more. They were perpetually acting them for provisions and gold. In short, these unfortunate people harassed themselves in gardening, hunting, fishing, and working in the mines to gratify the insatiable Spaniards: who at the same time, considered them in no other light, but that of traitors and rebellious slaves, whose lives might be taken away at pleasure. Columbus finding that the Indians were exasperated by this barbarous treatment, returned from pursuing his discoveries, in hopes of bringing the parties to a reconciliation but the mutinous clamours of a fierce and ra spacious soldiery drove him into hostilities, which were contrary to his sentiments both as a man and as a politician with two hundred foot and twenty horse, he ventured to attack an army said to consist of a hundred thousand men, on the spot where the city of St. Jago was afterwards built.,rHE unhappy Indians were conquered before the en engagement They considered the Spaniards as beings of a superior order. Their admiration, rcfpe& and fear, were increased by the European armour: and the fights
Qs the horse in particular, astonished them beyond mea E o o K sure. Many of them were simple enough to believe V1. that the man and the horse were the same animal, or a kind of deity. Had their courage even been proof against these impressions of terror, they could have made but a faint resistance. The cannonading, the pikes, and a discipline to which they were strangers, muff have easily dispersed them. They fled on all sides. They de handed peace, which was granted them on condition that they should cultivate the land for the Spaniards, and furnish them with a certain quantity of gold every month. THESE hard terms, and the cruelties that aggravated them, soon became insupportable. To avoid them, the islanders took refuge in the mountains, where they hoped to procure the small subsistence their necessities required by hunting and gathering wild fruits, till their enemies who each of them required more nourishment than ten Indians, finding themselves deprived of provisions, should be obliged to repass the seas. But they were disappointed in their expectations. The Castilians main gained themselves by the supplies they received from Eu rope, and purified their horrid plan with more eagerness than ever. No place was inaccessible to their rage. They trained their dogs to hunt and devour the un happy Indians : and some of them made a vow to massacre twelve every day in honour of the twelve Apostles. By there means a third part of there nations was de fired. On their arrival, the island was supposed to contain a million of inhabitants. All accounts agree that this number is not exaggerated ; and it is certain that the population was considerable. THOSE who did not fall a prey to misery, fatigue, alarm, and the sword, were forced to submit to the will of the conqueror, who exercised his power with more rigour, as it was not now restrained by the presence of Columbus. This great man was returned to Spain to,inform
B o o K inform the court of the barbarities, which the characters the people under him made it impossible for him to prevent, add which the voyages he was perpetually en gaged in, did not sussex him to controul. During his absence, the colony which he had left under his brother's command was torn by collections, animosities, and mu tiniest. No orders were obeyed, unless when some Ca pique was to be dethroned, rome Hord pillaged or de polished, or some nation extirpated. The moment these savage troops had got possession of the treasures of these unhappy people, whose throats they had cut, the disturbances were renewed. The desire of independency, and the difficulty of making an equal distribution of plunder among a set of men equally greedy, created dissensions Authority was no longer respected the sub alters paid as little regard to their commanders, as the commanders did to the laws : and open war at lait broke out among themselves the Indians who sometimes bore a part in there bloody and detestable scenes, and were always witnesses of them, recovered their courage a little. Notwithstanding their simplicity, they saw far enough to judge that it was by no means impracticable to rid themselves of a small number of tyrants who appeared to have lost fight of their projects, and attended to nothing but the gratification of the implacable hatred they bore to one another: animated by this hope, they embarked in a confederacy which was managed with more address than could have been expected, and had acquired considerable Strength. The Spaniards who persisted in destroying each other, notwithstanding they were threatened by so great a danger, would probably have fallen victims to their own obstinacy, had not Columbus arrived from Europe at this critical juncture. THE distinguished reception he had met with there at sirs, had made but a flight impression upon the people's time
time which brings-in reflection to counterwork the magic B o o K,Vl. of enthusiasm had destroyed that fondness for expedition V . to the new world which at firm so strongly prevailed. The ostentatious display of the treasures brought from thence, ceased to be an incitement: on the contrary the livid complexions of all the people who returned home; and the revere and disgraceful distempers under which the greater part laboured ; the accounts of the wholesomeness of the climate, of the numbers who had lost their lives, and the hardships they had undergone from the scarcity of provisions: an unwillingness to be under the command of a foreigner who was blamed for the severity of his discipline: and, perhaps, the jealousy they entertained of his growing reputation, all contributed to produce an insuperable prejudice against San Domingo, in the subject of the province of Castile, the only Spa niards who were allowed to embark in that enterprize. IT was necessary, however, to procure planters at any rate: the admiral therefore proposed to have recourse to the prisons, and by rescuing the greatest malefactors from death and infamy to make them the instruments of extend ing the power of their country, of which they had been the bane and disgrace. This project would have been attended with fewer inconveniencies in such colonies as having gained a more solid establishment, might by the force of their laws and the purity of their manners, re strain or correct the excesses of a few licentious and profligate individuals. But infant states require founders of a different character from a train of banditti. America will never get rid of the remains of that alloy which debased the first colonies that were transported thither from Europe. Columbus soon experienced the ill effects of his injudicious proposal. HAD this enterprizing seaman carried out with him men of the common stamp, he might, during the voyage have inspired them with honest principles at least,,if
B o 0 K if not with high notions of honour. These persons,.VL on their arrival, would have constituted a majority, and,the rest would have been obliged, or rather disposed to adopt the examples of moderation and obedience, they would have set them. Such a harmony would have been productive of the most salutary effects, and have established the colony on the most solid foundation. The Indians would have been treated in a better manner, the mines worked to greater advantage, and the taxes more easily levied. The-mother country animated by this suc. cess to the greatest attempts, might have formed new settlements, which would have augmented the glory, the wealth, and the power of Spain. These important events which might have been brought forward in a few years, were rendered abortive by this tingle piece of mismanagement THE malefactors who accompanied Columbus, ia conjunction with the free-brothers at San Domingo, formed a society the most abandoned imaginable. They were strangers to subordination, decency, and humanity, The admiral in particular, was the object of their re sentient, who saw too late the false step he had taken himself; or into which, perhaps, he had beep betrayed by his enemies. This extraordinary man, paid very dear for the same which his genius and industry had pro cured him. His life exhibited a perpetual contrast be tween those incidents, which either elate or depress the mind of a conqueror. He was not only continually ex rowed to cabals, calumnies, and the ingratitude of individuals but had the caprice of a haughty and suspicious court to encounter, which by turns rewarded, or pu rifled, caressed, or disgraced him.,THE prejudice entertained by the Spanish ministry against the author of the greatest discovery ever made, operated so far, that an arbitrator was dispatched to the new world, to decide between Columbus and his so!-,dicrs.
tiers. Bovadilla, the most ambitious, self-interested, B o o K unjust, and hot headed perform America had ever beheld, VI. arrived at San Domingo, put the admiral in irons, and conducted him to Spain like the wort of criminals. The court ashamed of so ignominious a treatment, granted him his liberty; but without redressing the injury he had received, or restoring him to his employments. Such was the fate of this uncommon man, who, to the astonishment of Europe, added a fourth part to the earth, or rather half a world to this globe, which had been so long desolate, and so little known. It might reasonably have been expected that public gratitude would have given the name of this bold adventurer to the new hemisphere, the first discovery of which was owing to his enterprizing genius. This was the least homage of respect', tr,:. could be paid to his memory: but either through r,:'., inattention, or the caprice of fortune in the distribution of same ; this honour was reserved for America Vcfpucius, who only trod in the footsteps of a man whose name ought to stand foremost in the lilt of great characters. Thus the very era which added America to the known world, was distinguished by a specimen of injustice, which was a fatal prelude to those scenes of violence, of which these unhappy climes were afterwards to be the theatre. AFTER the disgrace of Columbus, and the death of Isabella, these abuses became more frequent. The islanders, though condemned to undergo a degree of drudgery, which often proved fatal to them, and to pay the most exorbitant fines, had hitherto continued to live in their lords, after the manner of the country, and under the government of their caciques. In the year o506, Ferdinand was petitioned to make a distribution of them among the conquerors, that they might be em played in the mines, or in any other kinds of labour, that tyranny might think proper to inflict. Religions and
B O o K and policy were the two pretences made use ,of to pal.,,V hate this inhuman plan. It was urged, that Co long as,there savages were tolerated in their superstitions, they would never embrace christianity; and would always be in a disposition to revolt, unless their dispersion put it out of their power to make any attempt. The monarch complied with their request at the instance of the clergy, whose intolerant principles always transported them into violent measures. The whole island was divided into a great number of district. Every Spaniard, whether a native of Castile or arragon, was indiscriminately al lotted a larger or smaller part, in proportion to his rank, interest, or birth. The Indians assigned to each district, from this infant became slaves whose services and lives were at the disposal of their matters. This cruel ar rangement was afterwards adopted in all the settlements in the new world. THE produce of the mines was now more certain. At first one half belonged to the crown. This claim was afterwards reduced to one third, and at length li mixed to a fifth part the treasures brought from San Domingo, excited the avarice even of those who would not venture to cross the seas. The grandees, and those who had employments in the state, obtained grants by which they enriched themselves without any trouble. They committed the care of them to agents who were to make their own fortunes, while they increased those of their principals. Impossible as it seemed, there was now an augmentation of cruelties. In five years after this barbarous system took place, the natives were reduced to fourteen thou sand: and the continent and the adjacent islands were obliged to be ransacked for savages to supply their place they were indiscriminately chained together like bears. Those who sank under their burdens, were,compelled
compelled to rise by severe blows. No intercourse B o o g passed between the sexes but by stealth. The men perished in the mines, and the women in the fields, which they cultivated with their weak hands. Their constitutions already exhausted, with excessive labour, were till further impaired by an unwholesome and scanty diet. The mothers expired with hunger and fatigue, pressing their dead or dying infants to their breasts, shrivelled and contracted for want of a proper supply of milk. The fathers either poisoned themselves; or fought death on those very trees on which they had just before seen their wives or their children expire. THE Spaniards, before their first settlements in the new world were laid waste by these scenes of horror, had formed some of less note at Jamaica, Porto-Rico, and Cuba. Velasquez, who founded the last of these, was desirous that his colony should enjoy, together with that of San Domingo, the advantage of making discoveries upon the continent, and he fixed upon Francis Her nantes of Cordova to conduct this glorious under taking. He furnished him with three vessels, and a hundred and ten men, with permission to ere forts, to bring off slaves, or to export gold at his own discretion. This voyage which was made in 1517, was productive of no event except the discovery of Yucatan. JOHN of Gryalva who was fitted out the following year with a view of obtaining a more accurate knowledge of this country, discharged his commission with ability; but he did not confine himself to this object: he fur vexed the coast of Campeachy, pursued his voyage fill further north, and disembarked wherever he found a con lenient landing place. Though he did not always meet with a favourable reception, his expedition proved ex extremely successful. He brought home a great quantity of gold, and got a sufficient infight into the extent, opulence and strength of Mexico.,THE
B o o K THE conquest of this vas empire appeared too great t . an undertaking for a inaii of Gryali'a's abilities. Ser Cortez fts nando Cortez, who was more distinguished ors account poet for the sgqauc of o the expectations the world entertained of his future Jliexico. conduct, than by'the great services he had already per What hap opened to formed, was unanimously fixed upon to carry this plan bamofTa into execution. According to the representation given,of him by his adherents, it appears that he had such an uncommon strength of constitution, that he was able to undergo the greatest fatigues: that he possessed the talent of eloquence ih an eminent degree; a sagacity which foresaw every thing; a presence of mind not to be over come by the most unexpected events: that he was fruit ful in expedients; that he knew how to reduce those to subjection who refused to listen to terms of accommodation that his constancy was such, that he never re ceded from the point in view; and that he had that en enthusiastic love of glory, which has ever been considered as the leading qualification in a hero. This advantageous idea has long prevailed among the generality of people whose judgments are, and muff ever be regulated by the sole standard of success. - But since philosophy has thrown a new light upon history, it is become a matter of doubt whether the faults of Cortez did not overbalance his great qualities. BE this however as it may, this man, who was after wards so celebrated, was no sooner invested by Vela. ques with the command of the moss important expedition that had hitherto been undertaken to the new world then he found himself on an eminence; which presented the prospers of same and fortune in all their charms. Having surmounted the obstacles which jealousy and en misty threw in his way, he set fail on the loth of Fe february ice. His forces consisted of five hundred and eight soldiers, a hundred and nine sailors with their pro per officers; some horses, and a small train of artillery.,This
This armament, inconsiderable ts it was, was not B o o K equipped by government, Which only lent the fashion ,VI of its name to the attempts that were, made to discover new countries and form new settlements. They were all carried on at the expence of private persons, whd were ruined if they failed in their enterprizes; while their success enlarged the dominion of the mother-count try. In the course of there early expeditions, the fate did not form any plan, advance any money, or raise any troops. The love of gold, and the spirit of chivalry which fill prevailed, were the only incitements to in dusty and activity. Their influence; however, was so powerful, that not only the common peoples but great numbers of distinguished rank flew with impatience to mix with savages if the torrid zones Where the climate ;s frequently unwholesome. There was perhaps at that time no people upon earth besides the Spaniards, so frugal, so much inured to fatigue, or so accustomed to the temperature of a hot climates as to be able to en dure Co many hardships. CORTEZ, who was remarkable for these qualities, in his way attacked the Indians at Tabafcoi defeated them in several engagements, granted them peace; entered into an alliance with their and brought away several of their women, who Were very glad to follow him. This readiness of theirs may be accounted for very naturally IN America the men were in general addicted to thai shameful kind debauchery which shocks nature, and per rertsanimal instinct. Thisdepravity has been attributed by feme to natural weakness, which, however, should rather seem to be contrary than incentive to it. It may rather be ascribed to the heat of the climate; the contempt the men have for the softer sex; the little pleasure that cal be experienced in the arms of a woman harassed with labour; the inconstancy of taste; the caprice which VOL. II. M incites
o o K incites us in every particular to enjoyments that are leal V. common; and to a certain pursuit after pleasure, more easy to be conceived, than explained with decency. Besides, have not those hunting parties, in which the men are frequently absent from the women for two months, contributed to familiarize mer more with each other ? This vice is therefore in these countries nothing more than the consequence of an universal and violent passion, which even in civilized countries, tramples upon honour, virtue, decency, probity, the ties of con. sanguinary, and patriotic sentiment: besides that there are force aoions to which civilized people have with rea. son attached moral ideas, that never have entered into the minds of savages however this may be, the arrival of the Europeans raised new ideas in the American women. They threw themselves without reserve into the arms of these libidinous strangers, who had inured themselves to cruelty, and whose avaricious hands were drenched in blood. While the unfortunate remains of these savage nations were endeavouring to separate themselves from the sword that pursued them, by immense tracts of deserts, their women who had been hitherto too much neglected, boldly trampling on the carcases of their children and of their murdered husbands, went to seek their destroyers even in their camp, in order to intice them to share the ardent transports with which they were devoured. This fury of the American women in favour of the Spaniards, may be reckoned among the causes that contributed to the conquest of the new world. These women usually served them as guides, frequently procured Mien subsistence and sometimes betrayed conspiracies to them. THE most celebrated of these women was named Ma ring. Though she was the daughter of a pretty power ful Cacique, the had been reduced by some singular events, to a state of slavery among the Mexicans frobisher
her earliest infancy; She had been brought by fresh in B 0 0 K cents to Tabasco before the arrival of the Spaniards. . ,,' Struck with her figure and her charms, they soon distinguished her from the ret. Their general surrendered his heart to her, and at the same time excited a warm passion in her breast. In the midst of amorous embraces the soon learnt the Spanish language. Cortez on his part soon discovered the intelligent mind, and resolute character of his mistress; and not only made her his in interpreter, but also his adviser. All historians agree that the aged a considerable part in every enterprize against Mexico. REPORT says, that this empire had not then been Cortezar.,. rives at Me founded above a century. In order to establish a cir- rico. His cumftnce of so little credibility, it is necessary we nW1a1 cements with should have other testimony than that of the Spaniards, the province who had neither the ability, nor the will to examine any 'o Tlafrca. thing; and better authority than that of their fanatic priests, who wanted to establish their own superstitions, by abolishing the worship of these people. What should we know of China, if the Portuguese had been able to set it on fire, overthrow or destroy it, as the Brazil ? Should we now converse about the antiquity of its books, its laws, and its manners ? When some few philosophers have been allowed to penetrate into Mexico, there to find out and clear the ruins of their history, and that there learned men Ihall neither be monks nor Spaniards; but English or Frenchmen, who will be allowed every liberty, and have all the means of getting at the truth : then perhaps we may learn, whether barbarism has not destroyed the antient records, that might have discovered the traces of it. OUR lights concerning the founders of the empire, are not more certain than those we have with respect to the era of its foundation. This is another of those facts the knowledge of which we have been deprived of by,M the
b o b K the ignorance of'the Spaniards. Their credulous hist., ' rians have, indeed, told us in an uncertain and vague manner, that fome-birbarians who formed a national body, issuing from the north of this continent, had suc. needed in fubduing'fucceflively some savages born under a milder sky, and who either did not live in a social Rate, or formed orly small societies. ALL that we can affirm, is, that Montezuma was the sovereign of Mexico, when the Spaniards landed on the coasts of that empire. The monarch was soon informed of the arrival of these strangers. Throughout this want extent of kingdom, couriers were placed at different distances, who speedily acquainted the court with every thing that happened in the most distant provinces. Their dispatches serenade up in pieces of cotton, upon which were delineated the several circumstances of the affairs that demanded the attention of government. The figures were intermixed with hieroglyphic-characters, which supplied what the art of the painter had not been able to expressions was to be expected that a prince who had been raised to the throne by his valour, who had extended his empire by conquest, who had numerous and disciplined armies, would either send to attack, or would-him self fall upon-a handful of adventurers, whodared to in fest his dominions with their rapine. This however was not the case. The Spaniards who had always, irresistible turn to the marvellous, endeavoured-to, explain, 'by having recourse to a miracle, a conduce so. evidently opposite to the character of the monarch, and so incompatible with his situation. The writers of the. super. fictitious nation have not scrupled to declare to the whole universe, that a little before the discovery of the new world, it had been foretold to the Mexicans,. that an invincible people from the east would soon come among them, who would in a memorable and terrible, manner, avenge the gods irritated by their most horrid crimes,,7 and
and particularly by that vice which is most repugnant to s o o K nature. This fatal prediction alone, they say, fascinated . the great understanding of. Montezuma. By this imposture they have imagined that they should gain the double advantage of justifying :their usurpations, and making heaven answerable for a part of their cruelties. This absurd fable has for a long time obtained credit among some persons in both hemispheres, and this infatuation is not so surprizing as it might at first be imagined The reasons of it will be made evident by z few reflections. THE earth has ever been subjea to revolutions. Be hides its diurnal and annual motion from well to leaf, it may have an insensible one, which though silent as the lapse, of time, produces a revolutionary north.to south: and which the moderns have jut. begun to discover with out pretending however either to mark the ara of. its commencement, or. to trace its progress by any calculation :, This inclination is only a seeming one, if it be owing to the heavens, which by a formation proportioned to the magnitude of:the orbs they contain, attract them and thefun- towards the pole: butt is a real one, sour globe Iby its natural;confiitution verges as it were ingens fihlytol a .point,. opposite to this secret motion of the heavens:; however: this may be,.by the natural consequence of this-inclination, the earth's axis being con faintly declining, it may happen, that what we call, the oblique sphere. may become a right one, and what was a right sphere, may in its turn become an oblique. one that the countries now lying under the equator might formerly have been under the poles, and what is now the frigid zone, may have before been the torrid. . HENCE we may conclude, that this great variation in the position of the whole body of the earth, must pro-,M 3 duc
o 0 o K duce many particular alterations on its surface. The VL , oct-which acts as-the instrument of all there smaller changes, following the different inclination of the axis, retires from-one that of land and occupies another, occasioning those inundations or deluges which have successively overflowed the face of the globe; drowned its inhabitants, and every where left visible marks of ruin and devastation, or lasting memorials of their fatal effect in the annals or traditions of mankind. THE contest which perpetually subsist between the two elements, which, however irreconcilable, are yet in separable companions the earth insulting the wa terms in her internal cavities, and the sea encroaching upon, and swallowing up large tracs .of land; makes the inhabitants of the globe sensible of the danger of their situation, and alarms them with the prospect of their impending fate. The lively recollection of past, naturally begets a dread' of future changes. Hence-the' universal traditions concerning deluges in the earlier. ages, and the expectation of the future conflagration' of the world. The violent agitations which have been felt in every part of the globe; earthquakes occasioned bv inundations; or:volcanos produced by those convulsions .raise and cherish dreadful apprehensions in the, minds of men. 'Asthis terror is the parent of superstition it has every where received the fashion of its au authority: and it is observed to operate most strongly in countries, such as America, where the vestiges of these revolutions of the globe are most remarkable or most recent. MAN once posted with fear, considers a single ca laity as the parent of a thousand others. Earth and heaven seem equally to conspire to his ruin: he fees death both above and beneath him: he looks upon events which accidentally 'happen at the same juncture, as connected in the nature and the constitution of things: and as most of the transactions on this globe, appear,under
under the asper of some constellations, the stars are ac. B o o K cured of having a share in every calamity, the Cause of .v -i which is unknown; and the human kind which has ever been bewildered in its inquiries concerning the origin of evil, has been led to suppose that certain similar situations of the planets, however common, have an immediate and necessary influence on all revolutions happen ing at the time, or soon after succeeding. POLITICAL events, in particular, on account of their greater importance to mankind, have ever been considered as more immediately depending on the motion of the stars. Hence those false predictions and terrors, which haven all ages kept the world in awe; terrors, the origin and progress of which, is entirely owing to the different degrees of ignorance in mankind. THOUGH Montezuma, as well as many other per sons, might possibly have been affected with this disease' of the human mind, there is no circumstance that can' induce us to impute this prevailing weakness to him. His political'condu&, however, was not the wiser on this account. Since this prince had been upon the throne,. he no longer had displayed any of those talents that placed him upon it. Passing his life in a slate of effeminacy and indolence, he despised his fubjects,?and op pressed his tributaries. His mind was so debased and. corrupted, that even the arrival of the Spaniards could not rouze him into action. He wasted in negociations the time he should have employed in combat, and was desirous of sending away laden with presents, enemies he ought to have destroyed, Cortez, to whom this supine ness was very convenient, omitted nothing that might contribute to encourage it, and always treated with hin in the moRt friendly terms, He declared, that he was sent merely with orders to hold a conference with the powerful emperor of Mexico, on the part of the greatest monarch of the east. Whenever he was pressed to re-,1 4 imbark,
B o o K imbark, he always answered that he had never sent away cul any of his ambassadors without giving him an audience.,At-length, the deputies finding him inflexible, were obliged, According to their insinuating, to haverecourfc to menaces, and (poke in high terms of the opulence and hltrith of their country. Cortez then turning to his soldiers, told' td'tem: this is e~ai what we w infearcb f, great dangers, and great wealth. He had then corn pleated all his preparatives, and gained every informa tion that was necessary. Resolved therefore to conduct or to perish, he set fire to all his this, and directed his march to the capital of the empire. . IN his way he met with the republic of Tlafcala,. which had ever been in enmity with the Mexicans, who wanted to make it subject to their empire. Comte, not doubting but that they would favour his project, de sanded permission to pass through their empire and pro. posed an alliance, both which were refuted for realises-that we never have been acquainted with. Thee surprising accounts given of the Spaniards, astonished. tie "inhabitants of Tlafcala, but did not dismay them., ' y fought four or five battles: in one of which the. Spanish troops were broken, and in danger of being de' seated, had not lome dissentions happened in the enemy's army. Coriez'was obliged to intrench himself, and the Tlafcala'ns, who wanted nothing but arms to make them various, ru'fhed'to death, upon his breast-works.,.ANOTHER circumstance which contributed not a little ti'their defeat, was a certain point of honour dictated by'the feelings of common humanity, adopted. by the Greeks at the siege of Troy, and by some people among the Gauls; and established among several nations. This was the dread and disgrace of suffering the dead or the wounded to be carried off by the enemy. An attention to this point occasioned a continual confusion in their army, and abated the vigour qs their. attacks.,TH'
THEi form of governmeintfamorg these-people Was B o o K veryfipguar,i and-in many respects at lea t.may be pro ' pofedas, 'an excellent modeL-the country Was divided into several dismiss, over which princes presided with tie rtileof Caciques, They led their subjects into the field, levied taxes, and administered justice: but' their laws and:edits were to have 'the' fashion of 'the senate of TlIfcata, in which the supreme 'authority resided. This body was composed of citizens 'chosen out of each dihcl&-by an assembly of the people. The laws and manners' of the Tlafcalans were extremely severe. Falsehood, filial ingratitude, and the crime against na ture, were punished with death. Polygamy was tole rate ,by law. Their climate led to it, and the govern meant encouraged it. MILITARY merit here, as in all uncivilized states qr such as aspire to conquest, was in the highest deem. In their warlike expeditions they carried ixn their quivers two arrows, on which were engraver the figures of two of their antient heroes. They began the engagement by discharging one of these arrows, which it was a point of honour ,to retrieve in their towns they're a dress, which they di veiled themselves of when they went to battle They are celebrated for openness and sincerity in their pub lie treaties, and the veneration they paid to pld .mep. Theft, adultery, and drunkenness were held in detestation And the persons guilty of these crimps were, doomed to banishment. No firing liquors were allowed tp'be drank by any but veterans, exhausted by the sati * goes of war. TH' Tlaficalans had their pleasure-gardens and .their baths; They were fond ps dancing, poetry, .ar thea trial amusements. One of their principal divinities was the goddess of love; who had a magnificent temple, and the whole nation resorted to the celebration of her festivals.,THErl
b-'O:o K THEIR country was not of anygreat extent; noF was,-. it the mos fertile (pot in this part of the world. Though,mountainous it was uncultivated, very populous, and very happy. ' ":- SUCH were the people whom the Spaniards disdained to acknowledge of the same species with themselves. One of the qualities of the Tlafcalans which excited their contempt the most, was the love of liberty. They fan cried that they had no government, because it was not voted in. a single person: police, because differed from that of Madrid; no virtues because they were hot of the same religious persuasion' and no understanding, because they did not adopt the same opinions. NA'soNALs-prejudices were, perhaps, never idolized to that degree among any people, as among the Spaniards at that time, and-it is the fame'at this day. By there prejudices all their sentiments were dictated, their Judg. ments influenced, and their characters formed. 'The glowing and manly genius they derived from' nature, made them only more ingenious in inventing sophisms to; juicy the iFwrors. , Never was the perversion of human revoir maintained in a more dogmatical, determined, ob finite and artful manner. Norway their attachment to their cuftomsnlefs: wrong than that to their prejudices. They cot-not' allow any people upon earth to be so sensible, intelligent, and virtuous as themselves.:-' This national pride, carried to an excess of infituatioiibeyond example,; would have inclined them to considerations' in the same contemptuous light as Tlafcala. They would have treated the Chinese as brutes, and have every where left marks of outrage, oppression, and devafta- tion.,Tins haughty and imperious turn of mirid did not however prevent the Spaniards from making an alliance with the Tlafcalans, who furnished them with troops to,condut
coqdu& their march and support them in their enter B 'y o r,,VT. prize. With this reinforcement, Cortez advanced towards Cornezad- the capital city, through a fertile country watered by vanes t fine rivers, and interspersed with towns, woods, curtis Mexico;,manners, dated fields, and gardens; The soil produced a variety religion's of plants unknown in Europe. Birds of the most glit- ve''ment,,and riches teringpan~age, and animals of a new species appeared of the em in great abundance. Nature only changed her appear arevalohe ance, by assuming a more agreeable and rich dress. The Spaniard. temperature of the air, and the continual heats which were not insupportable, preserved the earth in constant verdure and fertility. Some trees covered with blossoms, and others with delicious fruits: and-he same grain sowing in one field, which was reaping in another. THE Spaniards denied to'be infenfible:to the beauties of so new a (scene. They hew that gold was the com mon ornament of the houses and-temples ; that the arms, furniture, and persons of the-Mexicans were adorned with the same metal. This alone attracted their notice, like Mammon whom Milton describes as forgetting the divinity in Heaven itself, and having his eyes always fixed upon its golden porches. MONTEZUMA'S wavering disposition, and, perhaps, the fear of committing. his former glory, prevented him from falling upon the Spaniards at their arrival; and afterwards from joining the Tlafealans, who were braver than, he; hindered him in a word from at tacking conquerors who were fatigued with their own victories. He seemed to have no other plan, than to endeavour to divert Cortez from his design of vi siting his capital, and at last determined to introduce him into it himself. He had under his command thirty kings or princes, many of whom were in a condition to bring a numerous army into the field. He possessed immense riches, and an absolute power. It is said that his subjects had no small share of understand-sing,
B o0 K ing, knowledge, industry, and :politeness. They were,v.r- warriors, and had high notions of honour had the emperor of Mexico known how to avail himself of these advantages, the sceptre could never have been arrested out of his hands. But this prince forgetting what he owed to himself and to his station, did not Shew the least instance of courage, or ability; when he might have crushed the Spaniards by the ex exertion of his whole force, notwithstanding their superiority in discipline and arms, he rather chose to have recourse to perfidy while he loaded them with presents, caresses, and every token of refpea at Mexico, he gave orders to at tack Vera-Cruz, a colony. the Spaniards had established with a view of securing their retreat, and of being fur. wished .with supplies. Cortez acquainted his, comp, nions with the news, and-told them, " That it was ab ' lately. necessary to surprize. t hesse barbarians with f' one extraordinary exploit: that he resolved to seize ' the emperor, and make himself matter of his person.' His design being approved, he instantly marched. with his officers to Montezuma's palace, and told him 'he miff either follow him, or die. The prince, whose pu :unanimity could only be equalled-by the rahinefs'of his enemies, resigned himself into :their hands: 'she was obliged to content to the punishment of the' generals, who bad aged only in obedience to his orders: and ca:opletod his disgrace, by submitting to do homage tQ the king of Spain. * IN the midi of this success, Comte , received advice that Na.rvae- was dispatched by, the ,governor of Cuba, with a small army to deprive him ',(his command. He marched towards his rival, engaged, and took him prisoner He ordered the vanquished to lay down their arms, but afterwards restored them, and proposed that :hiy (hould follow him. He gained their affections by,1bit
his openness and magnanimity; the army of Larvae B o o K inlifted under his standard: and he returned to Mexico, ' '1. Where he. had left two hundred men to guard the em ,peror.'x ,commotions were excited among the nobility of Mexico, who deeply refentedthe captivity of their prince; and the Indiscreet zeal of the Spaniards having prompted them, to disturb a public festival celebrated in honour of the deities of the country, by destroying their altars, and making a massacre of the worshippers and priest's, had provoked the people to take up arms. The superstition of, the Mexicans was the only mark of barbarism among them: their priests, however, who were a disgrace to humanity, made a most scandalous abuse of that abominable worship, which they had imposed upon the credulity of the people. This government, like all other civilized nations, acknowledged a supreme being, and a future state of rewards and punishments: but these useful ,doctrines, were disgraced by a mixture of absurdity, which destroyed their credibility. · THE religious system of the Mexicans taught them to,.cxpeF the final catastrophe of the world; at the cogclJion of every century: and that year was' distinguished throughout the whole empire, by every mark of grief and consternation. The Mexicans invoked in *fervor powers in the same manner as other nations have invoked Genii, Canis, Manitous, Angels, and Fe riches. The lowell deities in this class had all'their temples, images, employments, and lifting authority assigned them, together with the power of working mi race., They had their holy water to'fprinkle the people [ and the emperor drank of it. Pilgrimages, pro cessions and donations to the press were esteemed acts of piety and they were no strangers to expiations, pc dances, mortifications, and abstinence. They had rome superstitious observances peculiar to themselves. A lave,was
B o O K was annually chosen, and shut up in the temple; to him , , they paid adoration, offered incense, invoked him as deity, and concluded the scene by cutting his throat with great solemnity. Another piece of superstition, of which no traces are toe found in any other country was this: on certain days the priests made a statue of pase, which they sent to the oven: they placed it upon an altar, where it became a divinity. Upon this day innumerable clouds of people flocked to the temple The priests cut the statue in pieces, and distributed a portion of it to all the persons in the assembly who ate it, and thought they were sanctified by swallowing their god. IT was certainly more eligible to eat gods than men: and yet the Mexicans Sacrificed their prisoners of war in the temple of the god of battles. The priests afterwards ate them, and sent portions to the emperor, and the principal lords of the realm. When peace had lasted some time, they took care to have it insinuated to the emperor, that the gods were perishing with hunger: and war was commenced with no other view than to make prisoners. Such a system of religion was in every view odious and terrible; and all its ceremonies were of a dismal and sanguinary cast. They kept mankind per equally in awe, were calculated to make the people cruel; and to give the priests an unlimited authority. These barbarous absurdities, though they might justly excite the detestation of the Spaniards, could not justify their attempts to suppress them by the greatest cruelties. They could not justify them in attacking and murther ing a people assembled in the principal temple of the ca vital; or in assassinating the nobles in order to seize upon their possessions. ON his return to Mexico, Cortez found the Spaniards besieged in the place, where he had left them to guard the emperor. It was not without difficulty that he,3 opened
opened a passage to join them; and when he was at B o o K their head, he was obliged to sustain many powerful at Y tacks. The Mexicans gave proofs of extraordinary cou rage. They cheerfully devoted themselves to certain death. Naked and ill armed, they threw themselves into the ranks of the Spaniards, with a view of making their arms useless, or wresting them out of their hands. Se vernal attempted to enter Cortez's palace by the umbra, fares, where the cannon were placed: and there was not a man who would not have courted death to procure the deliverance of his country from the tyranny of these so reign usurpers. Cortez having taken possession of a temple which was an advantageous post, was viewing from a platform the engagement in which the Indians fought desperately for the recovery of their lost liberty: when two young Mexican noblemen threw away their arms, and came over to him as deserters. Placing one knee on the ground in a suppliant posture, they seized him, and threw themselves from the platform, in hopes of making him perils by dragging him along with them. Cortez disengaged himself from them, and kept his station on the balustrade: and the two Mexicans died vic tims of this noble and useful enterprize. THIS and some other exploits which shewed equal spirit, made the Spaniards desirous of coming to terms of accommodation. Montezuma consents become the instrument of his people's slavery, and appeared upon the rampart to persuade his subjects to retire. Their resent ment convinced him that his reign was at an end, and he was mortally wounded by the flower of arrows they discharged at him. THE successor to this base monarch, was of a haughty and intrepid disposition. He united judgment with rea dines of conception. He knew how to retrieve his as fairs, and to defend himself in circumstances of danger. His sagacity discovered to him the difficulty of gaining,any
a o o and advantage over an enemy so superior in their weapons, by vigorous attacks, and he thought it the best expedient to reduce them by famine. Cortez no sooner perceived this change of measures, than he thought of securing a retreat into the country of Tlafcala. THE execution of this projet required great dispatch, impenetrable secrecy, and well concerted measures. The march was begun in the middle of the night, the army's silently filing off along a bank, when it was found that its motions bad been observed with a spirit of disguise, of which they were thought incapable; his rear guard was attacked by a numerous body, and the flanks by canoes distributed on each side of the causeway. If the Mexicans, who had a greater number of troops than they could bring into action, had taken the precaution to place a part of them at the extremity of this cause. way, or even to break it, all the Spaniards would in inevitably have perished in this bloody engagement. For tanately for them the enemy knew not how to avail himself of all his advantages, and they at length reached the borders of the lake, after having undergone several dangers and fatigues. The confusion they were in fill exposed them to a total defeat, when they were relieved from this danger, by a fresh error of the enemy. No sooner had the morning discovered to the Mexicans the field of battle of which they were masters, than they perceived among the slain, two of Monte zama's sons, whom the Spaniards were carrying off with some other prisoners. This fight chilled them with horror. The idea of having massacred the children after having sacrificed the father, was too strong for men en feeble and enervated by a habit of blind obedience, to be able to bear. They were afraid of adding impiety to regicide; and employed in idle funeral rites, the time they owed to the preservation of their countryside Ring
DURING this interval, the beaten army which had lost B o 0 K two hundred Spaniards, a thousand Tlafcalans, the '~ i greater part of their artillery, and which had scarce a soldier remaining that was not wounded, was resuming its march. The enemy soon pursued, harassed, and at length surrounded them in the valley of Otumba. The cannonade, and the firing of the small arms, the pikes and swords did not prevent the Indians, all naked' as they were, from advancing, and charging their ene mies with great violence. Courage was just upon the point of yielding to numbers, when Cortez decided the fortune of the day. He had been informed, that in this part of the new world, the fate of the battle depended upon the royal standard. There colours, the form of which was remarkable, and which were never brought into the field but on the most important occasions, were at no great distance from him, He immediately rushed forward with the bravest of his companions, to take it from the enemy. One of them seized and car cried it into the Spanish ranks. The Mexicans immediately lost all courage; and throwing down their arms, betook themselves to fight. Cortez pursued his march', and arrived in the country of Tlafcala without opposition CORTEZ did not relinquish either the design, or the hopes of subduing the empire of Mexico, but he adopted a new plan and proposed to make one part of the ir habitants' assist him in the reduction of the other. The'forri of government hi Mexico, the disposition of the people, and its situation, favoured his project, and facilitated the execution of it. THE empire was elective, and certain princes or ca piques were the electors. They usually chose one of their own body. He was obliged to take an oath, that so long as he filled the throne, the rains should fall in due. season, the rivers cause no inundations, the fields be VoL. II. N exempt
B O O K exempt from sterility, and that mankind should not be,"Vo , destroyed by the malignant seas of an infectious air this custom may have some reference to a theocratical government, the traces of which are still to be found among almost all the nations in the world. It might likewise probably be the intention of this whimsical oath to intimate to the new sovereign, that, as the misfortunes of a state almost always arise from wrong mea sures of administration, his government ought to be con duped with such moderation and wisdom, that public calamities might never be considered as the consequences of his imprudence, or as theft punishment of his licentiousness According to the admirable tenor of their laws, merit was the only title to the crown: but fu perdition gave the priests a considerable influence in their elections. On his accession to the throne, the emperor was obliged to make war, and to offer the prisoners to the Gods. This prince though leave, had an absolute authority, as there were no written lays, and he was at liberty to make what alterations he pleased in the old customs. Almost all the forms office and ceremonies of the court had the mansion of religion. The same crimes that are punished in all other places, were punishable by the laws, but the criminals were often saved by the interposition of the priests. There were two laws which had a tendency to destroy the in nocent, and to make the Mexicans bend under the double yoke of tyranny and superstition. By these laws, per sons offending against the sanctity of religion, or the majesty of the prince, were condemned to death. It is cafe to discern how much laws of so little precision might afford opportunities of gratifying private revenge, or of promoting the interested views of priests and cour tiers. The steps by which private men obtained the rank of nobility, and the nobility rose to posts of honour, were bravery, piety, and perseverance. In the temples a mores painful
Painful noviciate was prescribed than in the army; and B o K the nobles who had undergone such hardships to obtain . ' their distinctions, submitted to the meanest employments in the palace of the emperors. AMONG the great numbers of vassals in Mexico, Cortez concluded there might be tome who would be ready to Shake off the yoke, and join the Spaniards. He had remarked that the Mexicans were held in great de gestation by the petty states that were subject to the em pire, and that the emperors exercised their authority with extreme severity. He had likewise observed that the provinces in general disliked the religion of the me metropolis, and that even in Mexico, the nobility and per sons of fortune, whose intercourse with the people had abated the force of their prejudices, and softened their manners, had lost their attachment to this mode of religion and that many of the nobility disliked the per france of the low services exacted of them by their matters. HAVING received rome small reinforcements from the Spaniards, obtained rome troops from the republic of Tiafcala, and formed tome new alliances, Cortez bent his course once more towards the capital of the em pire. MEXICO was situated ors an island in the middle of a large lake. If the Spaniards may be credited, this city contained twenty thousand houses; the inhabitants were very numerous, and the buildings magnificent. The em pero's palace, which was built with marble and jasper, was of a prodigious extent. Its fountains, baths,'orna- ments, and statues representing animals, excited uni versal admiration. It was full of pictures, which though made of feathers, were finely coloured, brilliant, and natural. Most of the cacique, as well as the em pero had their menageries, replenished with all the ani mills of the new continent; and apartments for the ar-,N 2 rangement
B o o K rangement of natural curiosities. Their gardens were,Xi filled with plants of every species. The beauties of na-ture, and whatever is rare or glittering in her productions must be an object of luxury to an opulent people, where nature is beautiful, and the arts are' not troughs to perfection. The temples which were numerous, were in general magnificent; but polluted with blood, and hung round with the heads of the unhappy aims who had been sacrificed. One of the greatest beauties of Mexico, was a square to which more than a hundred thousand persons usually resorted: it was covered with tents, and shops, where the merchants exposed to view all the riches of the country, and the manufactures of the Mexicans : birds of every colour, brilliant shells, a profusion of showers, together with pieces of workman ship in gold and enamel, gave these markets a more splendid and beautiful appearance to the eye, than is to be met with in the richest fair of Europe. One hundred thousand canoes were constantly passing and repassing be tween the city, and the borders of the lake ; which were ornamented with more than fifty cities, and a multitude of towns and villages. Upon this lake were three cause ways of considerable length, which were master pieces of Mexican industry. When we consider that these people were of no very remote antiquity, that they had no intercourse with any enlightened nation, no iron, writing, or any of those arts which assist us in the know ledge and exercise of others ; and that they lived in a climate where the invention of man is not excited by necessity we must acknowledge them to be one of the most ingenious people in the world.,rTHE falsity of this pompous description may easily be made evident to every man's capacity. It is not, how ever, merely by contrasting the present state of Mexico! with that in which its conquerors pretend to have found it, that this point can be decided. The ravages occasioned
signed by destructive tyranny, and a long continued series B o o of oppressions are sufficiently known. But if we com VI. pare the different accounts of the Spaniards, we shall then be able to judge of the credibility they deserve. When they wish to imprint a great idea of their courage and success, they represent the empire they have subdued, as a formidable, rich, and civilized kingdom. If on the contrary they mean to justify their cruelties, no people were ever so base, so corrupt, so barbarous, as these. WERE it possible to form a proper judgment of a people that exists no more, it might possibly be said that the Mexicans were subject to a despotism, as cruel as it was ill concerted; that they rather conceived the necessity of having regular tribunals of justice, than they could feel the advantages of them; that the small num ber of arts they followed, were as defective in execution as they were rich in materials ; that they were far ther distant from a savage, than they were near to a civilized people; and that fear, the chief spring of all arbitrary governments, served them instead of morality, and principles. CORTEZ began, by gaining over to his interest the caciques who reigned in the cities that were situated on the borders of the lake. Some of them joined the Spaniards with their forces; others were reduced to sub mission. Cortez took possession of the three avenues that lead to Mexico. He wanted to make himself master of the navigation of the lake, he built some bri gentiles, on board of which he put part of his artillery and, in this posture, waited till the want of pro visions should produce a surrender of the empire of the new world. GUATIMOZIN exerted his utmost efforts to relieve the capital. His fubjeAs fought with as much fury as ever. The Spaniards, however, maintained their polls, and pushed their attacks into the heart of the city. Then 3 Mexican
B o o K Mexicans fearing twould be taken, and perceiving that,VI. there must soon be a total want of provisions, turned their attention to the preservation of their emperor. He consented to attempt his escape, with a view of main gaining the war in the northern part of his dominions. To facilitate his retreat, a party of his soldiers gene roufly devoted themselves to death, by diverting the at mention of the besiegers: but the canoe, in which this generous and unfortunate monarch had embarked, was taken by a brigantine. An officer of the Spanifh re venue suspecting that he had treasures concealed, ordered him to be extended upon red hot coals, to extort a con session. His favourite who underwent the same torture, complaining to him of his sufferings, the emperor said, An I ap: a bed of rsrs ? An expression equal to any of those which history has recorded as worthy the admiration of mankind. An expression which the Mexicans shall one day repeat to their children, when the period shall arrive, in which the Spaniards shall ex plate the cruelties they have exercised, and that race of destroyers be plunged into the sea or drowned in their own blood. These people may perhaps preserve the ac tions of their martyrs, and the history of their persecutions In these it will be recorded, that Guatimozin was dragged half dead from a bed of fire, and that three years after he was publicly hanged under pretence of his having conspired against his oppressors and executioners. Th - S IN arbitrary states, the fall of the prince, and the birds reduction of the capital, usually bring on the conquest ofMXaico, and subjection of the whole realm. The people cannot extend its bou-daies. preserve their attachment to an oppressive governmental to a tyrant who thinks to make himself more respectable by never appearing in public. Accustomed to ac knowledge no right but that of force, they never fail to submit to the strongest party. This was the case in the revolution of Mexico. All the provinces Submitted,without
without resistance, to the victor, who gave the name of B o o K new Spain to this empire, the frontiers of which were . Frill extended, though already five hundred leagues long, and two hundred in breadth. THE first step the conquerors took, was to add to their acquisitions the vast trap which lies to the south ward, and extends from Guatimala to the gulph of Da rien. This accession of territory, though without much loss of time, blood, or treasure, was of little importance. The provinces of which it consists, are hardly known; and inhabited only by a few Spaniards, who in general are poor, and have by their tyranny, compelled the Indians to retire into the mountains, and impenetrable forests. Among all these savages, the Mosquitos are the only people who retain the form of a nation. Having for a long time struggled to preserve the fertile plains they in habited in the country of Nicaragua, they took refuge among the barren rocks at the cape of Gracias a Dios. Defended on the inland side by impassable morasses, and on that of the sea by dangerous shoals, they defy the rancour of their enemies. Their intercourse with the English and French pirates, whom they have frequently accompanied in the moi dangerous enterprizes, has in flamed their hatred towards their persecutors, increased their natural audacity, and taught them the use of fire arms: but their numbers which were never considerable, have been continually on the decline. As they do not at present exceed two thousand men, their weakness puts it out of their power to give the least alarm. THE increased extent of New Spain towards the north, is more considerable, and may prove of much more importance. We have hitherto been speaking only of New Mexico, which was discovered in 1553, and conquered in the beginning of the last century; it re voted about the middle of it, and was soon after reduced to subjection. All that is known concerning 4 this
B o o K this vast province is, that the Spaniards have fettled a,few wandering savages there, introduced a little agri. culture, worked some rich mines imperfectly, and established a settlement called Santa-Fe. The conquest of this inland territory, would have been productive of much greater advantages to the maritime parts, if, du ring the hundred years since it was undertaken, it had been prosecuted with the attention it deserved the old empire of Mexico extended its boundaries loft to the entrance of the Vermilion bay. From these limits, to the place where the continent is united to California, is a gulf almost twenty degrees in length. Its breadth is sometimes sixty, and sometimes fifty lea goes, seldom less than forty. In this extent there are many sand banks, and a considerable number of islands, and the coast is inhabited by several savage nations, which are for the most part enemies. The Spaniards have here formed certain scattered colonies, to which, agree ably to their custom, they have given the name of pro vices. Their missionaries have carried their discoveries further, and flattered themselves that they should procure to their country greater riches than it had ever acquired from its mot celebrated polieflions.,SEVERAL causes have been for a long time combined, to render their labours ineffectual. No sooner had they got together, and civilized some of the savages, than they were carried off to be employed in the mines. This barbarity ruined the rising settlements, and prevented other Indians from incorporating with them. The Spa niards, too remote from the inspection of government, gave themselves up to the most atrocious and unheard of enormities. Quicksilver, stuffs, and other merchandize were carried thither from Vera-Cruz on mules through a difficult and dangerous way of fix or seven hun. died leagues; a circumstance, which at the end of the,journey,
journey, added so considerably to their value, that most B o O K of the persons concerned in the working of the mines, vl were obliged to abandon them, from the impossibility of supporting them. At las certain clans of savages, stimulated either by ferocity, or the well-grounded apprehension of being one day enslaved, unexpectedly sell on the workmen, who till obstinately persisted in struggling against so many difficulties. IT was hoped that a new arrangement of things would take place, when in 1746, by order of government, the jesuit Ferdinand Confag had failed through the whole gulf of California. This voyage executed with the ut most care and with great judgment, intruded the Spa niards in every thing that was of importance for them to know. They became acquainted with the coasts of this continent, the harbours which nature has opened there, the sandy and dry places which arc not susceptible of cultivation, and the rivers, which by the fertility they produce on their banks, point out the proper spot for the formation of colonies. Nothing in future could hinder the vessels from Acapulco from entering into its sea, carrying at a moderate expence, into the bordering provinces, missionaries, soldiers, miners, provisions, merchandize, and every thing necessary to colonies, and returning laden with metals. The imagination of the Spaniards went still further. They already saw the whole continent subdued as far as new Mexico, and a new empire rise, as extensive, and as opulent as the old, and which would transcend the former in the mildness and salubrity of its climate. THESE hopes were not chimerical; but in order to have them realized, the natives of the country must either be gained over by humane actions, or subdued by force of arms. The destroyers of the new world could never form an idea of employing the first of these expedients,
B o o K expedients, and they were not in a condition of put,, ting the second in practice before the year 1768.,THEIR endeavours have not been crowned with com plate success. They advanced with considerable rapidity in Mexico, and in every region which was populous or whose inhabitants were collected in a small compass. Countries less inhabited were not so soon reduced, because there was a necessity of finding men to subdue, and because they fled into the forests when ever the Spaniards appeared, and did not become visible till want of subsistence had obliged them to retire. Thus it was not till after three years hunting, toil, and cruelty, that they compleated the conquest of the Series, Plates, and Sobaiporis. Their neighbours, the Paragon, Nijoras, and Sobs, despairing of being able to defend their liberty, submitted to the yoke without resistance. Troops were still employed in 1771 in pursuing the Apaches, the most warlike of there nations, and who had the greatest passion for independency. They despair of subjecting them, but they labour to exterminate them, at least to drive them at a distance from New Biscay, which would be exposed to their incursions. THE wealth which they have lately found in the provinces of Sonora and Cinaloa, which form what is now called the New Andalusia, appears to transcend every thing that has been seen in any other place. There is a gold mine fourteen leagues in extent, which at the depth of two feet offers immense treasures. Of the silver mines, one produces eight marks per quintal of ore, and the stones which they draw out of the other are almost entirely composed of virgin silver. If the court of Madrid, which has just published these disco verses, hath not been deceived ; if the mines which are often near the surface of the earth, and have an inconsiderable depth, do not present them with delusive hopes, the unhappy savages, who have very lately been subject ed, will be all buried alive in the bowels of the earth.,NEW
NEW Spain is almost entirely situated within the tor B 0O O,¥I. rid zone. The air is excessively warm, moist, and un - wholesome on the cQgfts of the north sea, These defects Climate, of the climate are infinitely less felt on the coasts of the found south sea, and hardly at all in the inland country, which tion of is interfered by a chain of mountains, that are supposed Mexico. to be a continuation of the Cordeleras, THE quality of the soil has the same variations. The eastern part is low, marshy, overflowed in the rainy sea sons, covered with impenetrable forests, and totally un. cultivated. It may be imagined, that if the Spaniards leave tin this slate of desolation, it is because they judged that a desert and destruCtive frontier would furnish a better defence against an enemy's fleet, than they could ever expect either from fortifications and troops, the maintenance of which would cost immense sums; or from the natives of the country, who are effeminate and little attached to the government of their conquerors. The western territory is higher, of a better quality, on which there are many fields, and several houses built. In the low lands there are districts, on which nature has been very liberal; but, like every country situated under the tropicks, they abound more in fruits than in corn. THE population of this vast empire is not less various than its soil. Its most distinguished inhabitants are the Spaniards, sent hither by the court, to fill the places of government. They are obliged, like those in the me metropolis, who aspire to any ecclesiastical, civil, or military employments, to prove that they have been neither hereticks, Jews, Mohammedanss, nor persons who have had any contests with the inquisition in their family, for four generations. Merchants who would go to Mexico, as well as to other parts of America, without becoming colonists, are bound by the same forms. They also oblige them to swear that they have three hundred palms,of
B o K of merchandise, their own property, in the fleet in whic,"I. V they embark, and that they will not carry their wive,with them. On these absurd conditions, they become the principal agents of the European commerce wit the Indies. Though their charter is only to continu three years, and a little longer for countries more re mote, it is of great importance. To them alone belon the right of selling, as commissioners, the major part c the cargo. If these laws were observed, the merchant stationed in the new world, would be confined to dispel of what they have received on their own account the predilection which administration has for Spa niards born in Europe, has reduced the Spanish Creoles t acquiesce in Subordinate stations. The descendants of th companions of Cortez, and of those who came after them being constantly excluded from all places of honour c of administration, that were any way considerable, hay seen the gradual decay of the power that supported thei fathers. Accustomed to that unjust contempt with which they have been treated, they have at last become really contemptible. They have totally lost in the vice which originate from indolence, from the heat of th climate, and from a superfluous enjoyment of all things that firmness, and that fort of pride which hath eve characterized their nation. A barbarous luxury, same ful pleasures, and romantic intrigues have enervated al the vigour, of their minds, and superstition hath corn plated the ruin of their virtues. Blindly devoted t priests too ignorant to enlighten them by their infirm tions, too depraved to edify them by their example, ant too mercenary to attend to both there duties of thei function, they have no attachment to any part of rely lion, but that which enfeebles the mind, and have ne elected what might have contributed to rectify thei morals.,TH]
THE Meshes, who constitute the third order of ci B o o K tiens, are held in still greater contempt. It is well Vi. known that the court of Madrid, in order to replenish a part of that dreadful vacancy, which the avarice and cruelty of the conquerors had occasioned, and to regain the confidence of those who had escaped their fury, en courage as much as possible the marriage of Spaniards with Indian women. These alliances, which became pretty common throughout all America, were particularly frequent in Mexico, where the women had more understanding, and were more agreeable than in other places. The Creoles degraded this mixt progeny, as much as they had been degraded by the Europeans. Their condition, equivocal at first, in process of time at last was fixed between the whites and the blacks. THESE blacks are not very numerous in-new Spain. As the natives are more intelligent, more robust, and more industrious than those of the other colonies, they have hardly introduced any Africans except such as were required either to indulge the caprice, or perform the domestic service of rich people. These slaves, who are much beloved by their masters, on whom they absolutely depend, who purchased them at an extravagant price, and who make them the ministers of their pleasures, take advantage of the high favour they enjoy, to oppress the Mexicans. They assume over these men, who are called free, an ascendant which keeps up an implacable hatred between the two nations. The law has studied to en courage this aversion, by taking effectual measures to prevent all connection between them. Negroes are pro habited from having any amorous correspondence with the Indians; the men, on pain of being mutilated, the women of being severely punished. On all these ac counts, the Africans, who in other settlements are ene mies to Europeans, are in the Spanish Indies their warm friends.,AUTHO-
B.0 0 K Authority has no need of this support at least is,Mexico, where population is no longer what it was for merely. The first historians, and those who copied them have recorded, that the Spaniards found there ten mil lions of fouls. This was the exaggerated account o conquerors to exalt the magnificence of their triumph and it was adopted without examination, with so mud the more readiness, as it rendered them more odious; W, need only follow with attention those ruffians who a first desolated these fine countries, in order to be con winced that they had not succeeded in multiplying met at Mexico and the adjacent parts, but by depopulating the center of the empire; and that the provinces which are remote from the capital, differed in nothing frorr the other deserts of South and North America. It i: making a g-eat concession to allow that the population of Mexico has only been exaggerated one half: for it does not now exceed one million. IT is generally believed that the first conquerors mas. sacred the Indians out of wantonness, and that even the priests incited them to acs of ferocity. Undoubtedly these inhuman soldiers frequently shed blood without even an apparent motive; and certainly their fanatic missionaries did not oppose these barbarities as they ought to have done. This was not however the real cause, the principal source of the depopulation of Mexico; it was the work of a flow tyranny, and of that avarice which exaaed from its wretched inhabitants more rigorous toil, than was compatible with their constitution and the climate. THIS oppression was coeval with conquest. All the lands were divided between the crown, the companions of Cortez, and the grandees or ministers who were most in favour at the court of Spain. The Mexicans, ap pointed to the royal domains, were destined to public labours, which originally were considerable. The lot,o(
of those who were employed on the fates of individuals, B o o K was fill more wretched. All groaned under a dreadful yoke; they were fed very indifferently; they had no wages given them, and services were required of them, under which the most robust men would have sunk. Their misfortunes excited the compassion of Bartholomew de las Casas. THIS man, so famous in the annals of the new world, had accompanied his father in the first voyage of Co humbug. The mildness and simplicity of the Indians truck him to such a degree, that he made himself an ecclesiastic, in order to devote his labours to their con version. But this soon became the least of his attentions As he was more a man than a pries, he felt more for the cruelties exercised against them, than for their superstitions. He was continually hurrying from one hemisphere to the other, in order to comfort the people to whom he was attached, or to soften their tyrants. This conduct which made him be idolized by the one, and dreaded by the other, had not the success he ex paced. The hope of keeping them in awe, by a character revered among the Spaniards, determined him to accept the bishopric of Chiapa in Mexico. Then he was convinced that this dignity was an insufficient bar rier against that avarice and cruelty which he endeavoured to check, he abdicated it. It was then, that this courageous, firm, disinterested man cited his country to the tribunal of the whole universe. In his treatise of the tyranny of the Spaniards in America, he accuses them of having destroyed fifteen millions of Indians. They ventured to find fault with the acrimony of his tfyle, but no one convinced him of exaggeration. His writings, which indicate the amiable turn of his disposition and the sublimity of his sentiments, have branded his barbarous countrymen with a disgrace, which time hath not, and never will efface.,THE
B 0 K THE court of Madrid awakened by the representations ofthe virtuous Las Casas, and by the indignation of the,' whole world, became sensible at last that the tyranny intermitted, was repugnant to religion, to humanity, and to policy, and resolved to break the chains of the Mexicans Their liberty was now only constrained by the sole condition, that they should not quit the territory where they werefettled. This precaution owed its origin to the fear that was entertained of their going to join the wandering savages to the north and south of the empire with their liberty they ought to have restored, them their lands; but this was not done. This injustice obliged them to work solely for their oppressors. It was only decreed, that the Spaniards, in whose service they laboured, should stipulate to keep them wells and pay. them to the amount of 20o livres r a year.,/FROM these profits the tribute imposed by, govern. ment was sublimated, together with an hundred. situs sot an inflitution, which it is astonishing the conquerors should have thought of establishing. This~,ws a fui set apart in each community, and appropriated to, the relief of such Indians as were decayed or indisposed, and to their support under private or public calamities:. .THa distribution of this fund was committed:,tt their caciques. These were not the defcendents-ofr:thofe: whom they found in the country at the time jof-ecoan.' quest. The Spaniards chose them from amongithofe. Indians who appeared the most attached to-their in-i teresa; and were under no apprehensions at making theft dignities hereditary. Their authority was liritedtoithe supporting the police in their district, which'in.ageerat: extended eight or ten leagues; to the receiving the tri, bum of those Indians who toiled on their, account, that *of-the others being stopt by the masters to whom they were subjected; and to the preventing their flight by,y Abc.t 51. , 4d-4d,keeping
keeping them always Under their inspection, and the B o o K not suffering them to contrast any engagement without vl. their content. As a reward of their services, there ma nitrates obtained from government a property. They were permitted to take out of the common shock; five fous annually for every. Indian under their jurisdiction. At last they were empowered. toget their fields cultivated by such young men as were not yet subject to the poll tax; aid to employ girls till the time of their marriage in such-occupations as were adapted to their sex, with out allowing them any salary except their maintenance. THESE inflitutions, which-totally:changed the con titian of the Indians of Mexico, irritated the Spaniards to a degree not to be conceived. Their pride would not sussex thereto consider the Americans as free men, nor would their avarice permit them tt pay for labour, which hitherto had cost them nothing. They employ-ed successively,. or i.: combination, draft, remonstrances and-violence to effect the subversion of an arrangement which so strongly contradicted their baronet passions aut their efforts were ineffectual. Las Casas had raised ' upfor his beloved Indians, protectors who seconded his design with-zeal and warmth. The Mexicans them felvre finding a support cited their oppressors before the tribunals, and even before those that were either weak or corrupted by the court. They carried their resolution lb far, as even unanimously to refuse to work for those who had treated any of their countrymen with in juice. This mutual agreement, more than any other circumstance gave solidity to the regulations which had been decreed. The order prescribed by the laws, was gradually established; There was no longer any regular' system of oppression, but merely several of those parti ocular vexations, which a vanquished people, who have,Two'pence halfpenny. VOL. II. 0 oft
B O K lost their government-can hardly avoid from those wht,have subdued it. . THESE clandestine as of injustice did not prevent tht Mexicans from recovering from time to time, certain .detached portions of that immenf.;territory of 'which their fathers had been despoiled. They purchased them of the royal domain, or.of the great proprietors. It wa, not their labour which. enabled them-to make these ac. questions: for this they Were indebted to the felicity ol having discovered, some of them, nines, others, tree. fares, .which had-been concealed at the time of the con. tess. The greatest number derived their resources from the priests and monks-to whom they. were indebted, for existence. - .seven those, who experienced .afortun~iefs :props. tous, procured Mr themselves lby the sole profits of .their pay-tore conveniencies;:thanIthey ha enjoyed tyson they underwent a foreign yoke. We should .bd ver much deceived if-we-ihoutd judge the antic:JvpCi purity of the inhabitants of Mexico, bya-wahat shade said of its emperor, its court, its capitals andthe go. errors of its provinces. Despotism had there product thole fatal sees, which it preducirtevry.where-Th whole fate was sacrificed to the-prices, 'pleaseth, anifmiagnificence of a fia numbered perlons.- :. :.-the government drew considerable advantages-sri the mines-which it-used to be worke-and still greater from those-which were in the hands of individuals . The salt works greatly added to its revenue. Thos( f.ao followed agriculture, at the times harvests-paid in-kind a third of all the produce of the lands; whether tlcey belonged to them as their own property, :or vWhC ther they were only the farmers of them. Hunters, fishermen, potters, and all mechanics paid the same pro. portion of their industry every tnonth. Even the poo: were taxed at certain fixed contributions, which their la hour or their alms mi p hut put lm in a condition to pay.,Tnli
THE common people arnong the Mexicans went B o o naked. The emperor himself and the nobles, were V' only covered with a kind of mantles composed of-a piece of square cotton tied on the right shoulder; Instead of shoes they wore sandals, - Wornenamong the common people for their whole apparel had only-a kind of lift with half sleeves, which ,sell on their, knees; ard wa open on the boforn. Common people were prohibited from raising their houses, above the ground for, and from having either doors or windows. The greate part were built of earth, and covered with boards, and had no greater shares conVeniency than elegance. The inside was covered with mats, and lighted with torches of fir wood, though they had Wax and oil in abundance. Their beds. were made of plain straw and coverlets of cotton; For their feats, they had only, little sicks of palm leaves; but it was their custom to fit onr ths ground, and even to eat in that posture; Their food; of which animal meat was seldom a part, had little di verityahd ]igtle delicacy. Their moRs ordinary aliment was maize made into a pastes or prepared with various reasonings. With these they joined the common herbs found i, .the field which were not too hard, or had not a bad smell; Cocoa diluted in warm waterloo seasoned with honey or pimento, was their best beverage They. Ad besides these other liquors, but not of an intoxicating quality: for all strong drinks were so rigidly prohibited, that no one could safe them; without a particular permission from government, which was granted to the sick and aged. It was on certain solemnities alone, and in public labours; that each person had a quantity allowed in proportion to his age. Drunkenness was considered as the most scandalous of vices. Those who were found in this situation were shaved in public, and their houses were pulled down. If they exercised any public office, they,0 a- were
B-O O K were deprived of it, and declared incapable of ever,VI . holding it against is a matter of astonishment, that men who had so few wants, should ever submit to the yoke of slavery. That the citizen accustomed to the indulgences ard conveniences of life, should purchase them every day with the sacrifice of his liberty, is not the least surprising but that. people to whom nature offers more felicity than the filial chain that unites them should calmly fruit to slavery, and never think, that there is frequently but a river to cross informer to be free, this would be for ever inconceivable, if we did 'not'kknow how much habit and superstition render men insensible to the feelings of nature the Mexicans are now less unhappy. Our fruits, our corn, and our cattle, have rendered their food more wholesome, agreeable, and abundant. Their houses are better built, better disposed, and better furnished, Shoes, drawers, shirts, a garment of wool or cotton, a ruff, and that, constitute their dress. The-dignity which 'they have agreed to annex to there enjoyments, has'jade them better economists, and more laborious' This ease however is far from universal, it is even very uncommon in the vicinity of the mines, towns, and great roads, where tyranny seldom sleeps : but we often fond it with pleasure in remote parts where the Spaniards have not become numerous, and where they have in orme measure become Mexicans. THE. inhabitants of the province of Chiapa are dir extinguished beyond all others. They owe their superiority to the advantage of having had Las Casas for their teacher, who originally prevented them from being op pressed. They surpass their countrymen-in size, genius, and strength. Their language has a peculiar softness and elegance. Their territory, without being a better soil than the refer, is infinitely richer in all forts of productions They are painters, musicians, and dexterous in,all
all arts. They particularly excel in fabricating those B o o K works, pictures and stuffs of feathers, which have Vl. never been imitated elsewhere. Their principal town is called Chiapa dos India. It is only inhabited by the natives of the country, who form acommunitycon- sifting of four thousand families, amongst which are found many of the Indian nobility. The great river, on which this town is situated, is a scene on which' the inhabitants continually display their dexterity and their courage. They form naval armies with their boats. They engage, attack, and defend themselves with 'surprising agility. They excel no less in the chace of bulls, cudgelling, dancing, and all bodily exercises. They build towns and castles of wood, which they cover with oil cloth, and which they besiege in form. In short, theatrical representations constitute one of their ordinary amusements. From these particulars we see what the Mexicans are capable of, if they had been fortunate enough to have passed under the dominions a conqueror, who had possessed moderation and good.fenfe enough, to relax the chains of their servitude inftead'of whetting them. - - :the employments of this people are very various. Produce. The tinof1 intelligent, and those who are in cary cir: tionS of substances, devote themselves to the manufactures'of-in- desirable necessity, which are dispersed through the ,whole-empire. The most beautiful are fabricated among thepieople of Tlafcala. Their old capital and the'hew qne, which is called Angelos, are the center of this in duitry. Here they manufacture cloth that is pretty fine, caltoebs 'that have an agreeable appearance, certain flit silks, good hats, gold lace, embroidery, lace, giuT/s, and a great deal of hardware. The arts must uiiec'arily have made a greater progress in a province which hath been able to preserve its independence a long time, which the Spaniards thought it prudent to treat with some management after the conquest, and which 3 had
1 o had always manifested superior penetration; whetheg,VL owing to its climate or its government. To there advantages is joined that of its situation. All the inhabit. wants of Mexico, who must necessarily pass aver its ter ritory when they go to purchase the European mercian. dire that is landed at Vera-Cruz, have found it con. Lenient to take up on the road what the fleet did not puppy 'them with, or what was sold too dear the care of flocks affords a maintenance to some Mexicans whom fortune or nature have not called to more distinguished employments. America, at the time it was discovered, had neither hogs, sheep, oxen, horses, nor even any domestic animal. Columbus carried some of there useful animals to San Domingo, from whence they were generally dispersed, and at Mexico more than in any other place. There have multiplied prodigiously. They count their horned cattle by thousands, whofelkins are become an object of considerable exportation.' The horses are degenerated, but the quality is compensated by the number. Hog's lard is here substituted for but ter. Sheep's wool is here dry, coarse and bad, as it' is every where between the tropics.,TRE vine and olive tree have experienced the same degeneracy. The cultivation of them was at first pro habited, with a view of leaving a free market for the commodities of the metropolis. In 1706, permission was given to the Jesuits, and a little afterwards to the marquis Del Valle, a descendent from Cortez, to cultivate them. The experiments have not proved successful. The trials, indeed, that have been made, have not been abandoned; but nobody has solicited the liberty of fol lowing an example, which did not flatter them with any grace; emoluments. Other cultures have been more successful Cotton, sugar, silk, cocoa, tobacco, and Eu european corn, have all thriven more or less. Labour is encouraged by the happy circumstance which beset these Spaniards
Spaniards of discovering iron mines,. which were entirely B O o K unknown to the Mexicans, as also miles of copper that VL island enough to serve for tools of agriculture. All these objects, however, for want of hands or activity, are confined to an interior circulation. There is only the vanilla, indigo, and cochineal, which belong to the trade of Mexico with other nations. THE vanilla is a plant, which like ivy, grows to the trees it meets with, embraces them closely, and raises itself by their aid. Its stem is but very small in dia meter, and is not quite round. Though it is very pitiable, it is yet pretty hard. Its bark is thin, very ad rent, and of a green colour. It is intersected like the vine, with knots which are at the distance of fix or seven inches from each other. From these knots issue leaves resembling. those of the laurel, but longer, larger, thicker, and more solid. They are of a vivid green colour, their upper surface glossy, their under a little pale. The flowers are blackish. A SMALL pod about fix inches long, and four lines road, wrinkled, flabby, oily, thick and brittle, may be considered as the fruit of this plant. The inner part of this pod is lined with a pulp that is reddish, aromatic, a little acrid, and full of a black, oily, and balsamic liquor, in which an infinite number of black, shining, and alinft imperceptible feeds float, THE season furthering the pods, begins about the lat ter end qs September, and lasts till the end of December. They are dried in the shade: and when dry and fit for keeping, they are anointed externally with a little oil of cocoa or of alba, to render them supple, to preserve them the better, and to prevent them from becoming too dry and brittle. Tss is nearly all that is known of the vanilla, which is particularly appropriated to perfume chocolate; ? practice which has paled from the Mexicans to,0 4 the
B 0,o < t he Spaniards, and from them to other nations; Thais . alone is esteemed, which grows in the inaccessible,moubtaihs of, New Spain. We are equally ignorant how many different specie 'there are of it; which are the molt valuable; what is the soil which suits them het ; how they are cultivated, and in what manner they-=ec-propagated. All there circumstances are knows only to the natives of the country. It is pretended thes thyh.bave only been able to preserve to themselves this source of wealth, by taking an oath, that they would never reveal to their tyrants, any thing repeating the cultivation of the vanilla, and would sussex the not cruel tortures rather than be perjured. It is more probable that they owe this advantage to the harassed of their conquerors, who content with the riches they have acquired, and habituated to an indolent life and tQ an effeminate ignorance, equally contemn-both the curiosities of natural history, and the researches of thor who apply themselves to it. Indigo however is better known to them. ;. - Digit is a kind of plant, whose root is three or sout lines, thick, and more than a foot long, of ;a faint smell something like parley. From this root iffues.ai single stem nearly of the same thickness, about .two feet high, straight, hard, amount woody, covered.with.a bark sightly split, of a grey ash colour towards the bottom, green in the middle, reddish at the extremity, and without any appearance of pith in the inside. The leaves ranged by two and two together around the (talk, are of an oval form, smooth, lost to. the touch, fur rowed above, of a deep green on the under side, .and connected by a very short peduncle. From-about,, one third of the stem to the extremity, there are ears-start' loaded with very small flowers from a dozen to steels but destitute of smell. The pistil, which is in thes nit
I midst of;eaoh- flower, changes into a pod, ih'whici the g o o K f eiISar~Einclofed. . '· , isis plant requires a smooth liohiooil,* well illled, a ndnot too dry. The feed of itji 1j- l as' to figure and'colour resembles 'gun-powder,' h' stOwed in; little furrows-that are about the breadth of the hugh, two three inches deep, and at a foot!s- distance frosty each other; and in as straight a line as fibre.: Continual attention ;mist be paid to the plucking up bs the weeds, which would noon choak the plant. Though it may be sown in all seasons, the spring is commonly preferred. Moiftire'caiifes this plant to hoot above the surface in three or four days. It is ripe at the end of two months. When: it begins to flower, it is cut with pruning knives; ati'cuit'-again at the end of every fix weeks, if the weather i:'a: little rainy. It lasts about two years, after which term it 'degenerates; it is then plucked up, and planted"afrefh. 'As: this plant soon exhausts the soil, because it does not absorb a sufficient quantity of air and dew to moisten thera1'th;"it is of advantage to the cultivator to have a'vat space which may remain covered with trees, as longs' till it becomes necessary to sell them, in order tb iiate'roomi for the indigo: for trees are to be considered as syphons, by means of which the earth and air reciprocally communicate to each other their fluid and vegetating substance; syphons, into which the vapours and-the juices being alternately drawn up, are kept in equilibrium - Thus while the sap ascends by the roots to the branches, the leaves draw in the air and vapours, which circulating through the fibres of the tree descend into the ea'th,,:and restore to it in dew, what it loses in sap. Itis':irorder to maintain this reciprocal influence, that when there are no trees to preserve the fields in a pro per state for the sowing of indigo, it is customary to cOver' those which are exhausted by this plant with.,potato:s
E Q q9 potatoes or lines, whose creeping branches preference, freshness of the earth, and whose leaves when burnt renew its fertility. Ismoco is distinguished into. two kinds, the true, and the ballard. .Though the sirs fetches an higher price by reason of its perfection, it is usually advantageous to Cultivate the other, because it.is heavier. A greater number of lands is found propitious to the former; the second prospers-better in .this which are mos .exposed to therein. Both are liable to great accidents. Some. times the plant becomes dry, and decays from the puncture of a worm that is very frequenti;.at.others, the leaves, which are the valuable part of the plant, are de poured in the space of twenty four hours by caterpillars. This last accident which is but too common, has given occasion to the saying, that the cultivators of indigo go to bed rich and rise in the morning totally ruined. This production aught to be gathered in with great precaution, for fear of making the farina that lits on the leaves, and which is very valuable, fall off by Shaking it. When gathered it is thrown into the sleeping vat, which is a large tub, filled with water. Here it undergoes fermentation, which in twenty four hours at furthest, is completed. A cock is then turned to let ile water run into the second tub called the mortar or pounding tub. They immediately glean the sleeping vat, indorser to throw in freflf plants, and continue the york without interruption. THE water, which has run into the pounding tub, is found impregnated with a very subtile earth, which alone constitutes the dregs or blue substance, that is the object of this process, and which muet be separated from the useless salt of the plant, because this makes. the dregs swim on the surface. To effect this, the water is for cibly awaken with wooden buckets that are full of holes, and fixed to a long handle. This operation requires the,greatel
greater precaution. If the agitation be discontinued to B o o i soon, the part that is used in dying not beingfufficiently. v. separated from the salt would be los. If on the other hand, the dye were to be agitated too long after the entire reparation, the parts would be brought together again, and form a new combination ; and the salt reading on the dregs would excite a second fermentation that would alter the dye, spoil its colour, and make what is called burnt indigo. There accidents are prevented by a close attention to the leaf[ alterations that the dye undergoes, and by the precaution which the workmen take to draw out a little of it from time to time with a proper vessel; When he perceives that the coloured particles collect by separating from the rest of the liquor, he gives over liking the buckets, in order to allow time to the blue dregs to precipitate to the bottom of the tub, where they are left to fettle, till the water be quite clear. holes made in the tub at different heights are then opened one after another, and this useless water is let cut. THE blue dregs remaining at the bottom, having ac quire the confidence of a thick muddy liquid, cocks are then opened, which make it pars into the settler. After it is still more cleared of much superfluous water in this third and last tub, it is drained into racks; from whence, when water no longer filters through the cloth, this matter, now become of a thicker confidence, is put into chests, where it entirely loses its moisture. At the end of three months the indigo is fit for sale. WASHERWOMEN use it to give a blueish colour to linen: painters also employ it in their water colours; and dyers cannot make fine blue without indigo. The antients procured it from the Eaftlndics; in modern times it has been transplanted into America. The cultivation of it, successively attempted at different places, appears to be fixed at Carolina, San Domingo, and Mexico.,The
r O o K The-fnditgo- known under the name of Guatimala Vm . from whence it comes, is the most perse of all. Nev,Spaih derives very considerable advantage from ths plant; but strains till more from the trade of co chincal.,THE. nature of the cochineal, without which neither purple nor. scarlet could be made, and which is fount only in Mexico, hats been long unknown, even to na tions who made the most use of it. The Spaniards who are naturally reserved, and who instantly become mysterious when the discourse turns upon their colonies kept a secret, which every thing induced them to believe was of the last importance to them. At last it became known that it was an infect of the size and form of' bug this inset, like all animals, has two sees. The female is badly shaped, tardy, and stupid i its eyes mouth, antennae, and feet are fixed so deep, and are f( concealed on the folds of the skin, that it is impossible to distinguish them without a microscope. On'whicl account, this animal was for a long time takep.-foj the feed of a plant. THE male is very scarce, and adequate to three hn:. died females or more, and is active, small, and tlcilaei in comparison of the female: its neck is narro0er-tlhir the head, and still narrower than' the reft of the body The thorax is of an elliptic form, a little loniger'thai the neck and head together, and flattened below ;sit, antcnn. are jointed, and out of each'joint. ifue-fou6 bristles, that are disposed in pairs-on each gde: It ha fix feet, each f red of distinct parts'. From theistic terror extremity of its body, two large hairs or' bristles stretch out, that are four or five times the length qofht infcl. it bears two wings that are fixed to the up-pcl part of the thorax, which fall, like the"wings of ordinary flics, when it walks or rests. These wings, whicd,7 arn
sKre''f a'r oblong form, are suddenly diminished, in 1B o oK Breath at the point where they are connected to the busy. 'They are strengthened by two long muscles, one of which extends itself on the outside all around the wing, and the other, which is internal and parallel to the former, seems interrupted towards the rimini of the wings. The male is of a bright red, the female of a deeper colour. THE shrub, on which both live, called the Nopal'or ionian fig, is armed with prickles, and is about five feet high. Its' leaves are thick and oval; its flowers large, arid its fruits of the Shape of a fig. It is filled witling red juice, :o which the cochineal probably owes its colour. THE Indian fig is commonly propagated from one or two of its leaves put in a hole, and covered with earth. The cultivation of if consists only in extirpating tie weeds that surround it. It muff often be renewed, beauf' the younger it is, the better and more considerable is its produce. It is found in various countries of mexico, at Tlafcala, Chaldea, Chiapa, arid New Alicia but it is not common. The people never plants, and' the'cochineal, which is such as rude na ture of irfief produces, is called wild, and is of little or ho value, The Indians alone of Guaxaca, devote themselves wholly to this species of industry. They are never discouraged either by the continual attention it requires, lor byt t too common misfortunes to which it 'exposes their Their intelligence, activity, and earl circumstances enable them to support a bad harvest, and wait ter ~tql , , - 1 . forma good one. In general, there crops are more re guard in a dry soil, in which the nopal flourishes, and under a temperate sky, where the cochineal is exposed t6fewevr accidents, than in those parts of the' province Where the-old and heat are more sensibly felt.,As
3 o o K. As soon as the favourable season arrives, the Mexi,V ' cans, if I may use the expression, sow the cochineal oi,the plant that is proper for them by fattening to it little nefas of moss, that contain each twelve or fifteen Three or four days after they lay their little ones, which spread themselves with astonishing celerity over all th branches. They. on lose this activity, and are seen tt fasten themselves, without rambling any longer, to th, mofltutritive:and belt exposed part of the leaf; until they have received their whole growth. They do no gnaw it, they only puncture it, and extract the juice with a shall trunk, with which nature has provide them for this purpose three crops of cochineal are made every year, which are so many fresh generations of this infer. The hall pro duces only an.indifferent cochineal, because it is mixed with detached parcels of the leaves, which have been (crape in order to take away the new born infest which otherwise it would be hardly possible to gather; and because the young cochineal are then mixed with the old; a circumstance which considerably diminishes their value. Immediately before the rains, the branch of the nopal are cut, in order to save the little infect which are on them. These are laid up in ;the houses, where the leaves maintain .their freshness, as the leaves of all mucilaginous plants. Here the cochineal thrive during the bad season, .As Coon as that is over, they are placed on the trees without doors, where the vivify ing freshness of the air soon makes them propagate the cochineal are no sooner gathered, but they are plunged in hot water to kill them. There are different ways of drying them. The bell is, exposing-them to the fun for several days, where they take a red brown colour, which the Spaniards call reargrida: The second is putting them in an oven, where they affame a greyish colour with veins of purple, which has given them the name of j.:jaa'. But the most imperfect, which is,what
what the Indians most generally praise, consists in put B o o h ting them on plates along with their cakes of maize, which process frequently occasions their being burnt, and gives them the appellation of negro. THouori the cochineal' is classed in the animal king dom, which is a species the riot perishable, it norwich. standing never spoils-without any other care than merely that of keeping it in a bo*, it has been pre served in all its virtue for ages. Its price,'which is always very high, might justly excite thee emulation of those nations which cultivate the American islands, and of other nations who inhabit regions, whose tempera ture would-be propitious to this insect, aid to the plant on which it feeds. New Spain, however, has the sole possession of this rich protrusion. Independently of what it furnishes Asia with, it sends every year to Eu rope about two thousand ive hundred bags or sacks, which hare ford at Cadiz, one with another sot b 3300 livres. 'This sa' 'y considerable, produce; while .hardly cfS the Spahidi:ds'any trouble. It should seem as,.if nature had gratuitously given thetis 'that they sell at Lhgh.price 4d other mentions. She has:-befowed privileges upon 'them, by-writing' then at-the same time both'the:-pieduEtions Which yield'the-wnoi riches-and told and'filver, which are the, vehicle or token of all productions .' ; ' : Such is-thee don/iniofi*hiEh-ttlhefe bright 'id 'fta The menes metals have over us,;'tht i*tEy hav' tooirnterbahnared of Mexico' the infamy and execration, which the pillagers of America justly deserved. The names of Mice, Peruse-and Potofi, no~rlonget make us shudder;' ant yet-ewe a'e men! Event this day,'iwen the spirits justice; ain the sentiments of humanity are breathed forth' ii all our Writings 'and are become the invariable-rti'e of bur,b Abou.r 144-.,judg-
B O O K judgments; .a navigator, who Should come into our,v.'- ports with a vessel laden with riches, notoriously ob-stained by methods equally barbarous, would land amidst the general acclamations of the multitude. Where is thereat wisdom, which is. foemuch the boas of the present age ?.'Wht. is then-that gold, which takes from us.the idea office, and wipeaaway the horror of blood led ? Without.doubt there is one advantage annexed to a medium of exchange between nations, to an ex eternal representation of all forts of value, to a common estimate of all labours. But would it not have been better nations had continued quiet, detached from each other, ignorant, and hospitable, than to be poisoned with she most ferocious of all passions ? THE origin of metals has not always been well,under- flood. It was long thought that they were as old as the cratiort,; It is now believed with greater reason, that they are solved successively. In sac, it s no. possible todoub., that nature is not continually employed in action, and that her springs are equally powerful in every part of the globe. . : ;: .EVERayrmetal,,accordin to Abe chymnilfs,.-hfs for-it, principle an earth which constitutes it, and which is peculiar to it. It is exhibited.,tp us,, sometimes, .under the form: that ,charters -i, a et undfomet der various forms, in which only eyes that have been habit. tuatedro the re searches; cap recognize it; In the sires case it. i called virgin, .i: the second mineralized = ,. . : .- , : . . . Areas whe ter virgin or. mineralized, are some titans fcattered.by. fragments in beds ps earth that are horizontal or inclined. But this is not the place of their origins They have been carried thither by great commotions, foods, and. earthquakes, which are con finally subverting our miserable planet. They are commonly found, sometimes in regular veins, and,fomctimcs
sometimes in detached masses, within the midst of the B O o. rocks and mountains where they were formed. vt. AccoRDING to the conjectures of naturalists, in these great workhouses which are always kept heated, exhalations are perpetually rising. These sulphureous and saline liquors act en the metallic particles, attenuate and divide them; and make them lightly circulate within the cavities of the earth. They unite again, ands' then becoming too heavy to support themselves in the air, they fall, and are heaped up one upon another. 'If,: in their different motions, they have not met wi* other bodies, they form pure metals. The case is otherwise, if they happen to be combined with foreign substances. NATURE, which seemed as if flie wished to consent their has not been able to secrete them from the avidity of mina'. By repeated observations, we are now able to discover the places where mines are found. These are cbiomiiPmly 'mountains, where plants grow with difficulty aid soon fade; where trees are small and crooked; wvieie'tlhe moisture of dews, rains, and even snows, is soon dried up; where sulphureous and mineral exhaJa-' tidhsitaife; where the Waters are loaded with vitriolic silts',' hai where the sands contain metallic particles. tlUIgh'-ea'id of these marks, separately considered, be aiigudus it seldom happens when all of them are found together, but that the earth contains some mine. "tt what are the terms, on which we extract this treafire'brithis poison of human life from that-abyss, where nature had secreted it? 'W~muft pierce rocks so an immense depth; dig subterraneous channels to carry tff treaters which flow in and menace us on every fine' convey into immense galleries forests cut in i4 prop ;support the vaults of these galleries under the enormous weight of the earth which perpetually tends to fill them up, and bury in their ruins those avaricious and Vol,. II P prPi
0o o K presumptions men who constructed them; we must scoop V ,. out canals and aqueducts; invent hydraulic machines of,aftbnifhing and various powers, and confirm all the several kinds of furnaces: we must be exposed to the danger of being suffocated or consumed by an exhalation which kindles at the dim light of those lamps, that are used to carry on the works; and at last die of a consume. tion which seduces human life to one half of its dura. tion. If we consider how many observations, experiments and trials all these labours suppose, we shal] carry Mt origin of the world far beyond its known an antiquity. To shew us the gold, iron, copper, tin, and silver employed by the first men, is to beguile us with falshood which can only impose upon children when the labour of mineralogy is finished, that o metallurgy begins. Its object is to separate metals frorr each other, and to detach them from extraneous bodies which envelope them. IN order to separate the gold from the stones which contain it, it is sufficient to break them in pieces ant reduce them to powder. The matter thus pulverized, i afterwards triturated with quicksilver, which combine itself to this precious metal, but without forming an' union, either with the rock, or sand, or even the earth which were mixed with it. By means of fire, the mer cry is afterwards distilled, which on separating, leave the gold at the bottom of the vessel in the slate of powder which is purified in the copper. Virgin five also requires no other preparations. BUT when the silver is combined with other Tub fiances, or with metals of a different nature, it require great knowledge and consummate experience to purify it. Every circumstance authorizes us to think that ths art is unknown in the new world. It is also generall acknowledged that the German or Sw-miss miners would fi-r in a mine that has already been worked, mor,wcalt,
wealth than the Spaniard had already extracted out of B o o It it. They might enrich themselves by mines, which for want of skill, have been rejected as inadequate to the expences of working them. THE art of the Mexicans, whatsoever it might be, was yet infinitely below that of their oppressors. They had consequently less silver than gold. These metals were not employed by them as a medium of exchange: they were only objects of ornament, or mere curio city. IN the first years subsequent to the conquest, the Spaniards spared themselves the trouble, toil and ex pence that are inseparable from the working of mines, They wrested from the Mexicans all the metals which they had amassed from the foundation of their empire, The temples, the palaces of the grandees, the houses of private persons,. the meanest hovels; all were searched and pillaged. Though the abhorrence the Indians i had of their tyrants made them bury a great deal of their wealth in the ground, and throw much more of it into the great lake, and into their rivers, yet avarice found enough to satisfy itself, This source exhausted, re course was necessarily had to the mines. c THEY dug them at first indifferently every where, but rather preferred the lea coasts. Experience teaching them that those which were nearest the ocean, were least abounding in there treasures, they became disgusted with this plan. At present they work no mine, that is not at a very great distance from the northern sea, where it might be exposed to the incursions, and, perhaps, to the invasions of the Europeans. The metals that are on the gulf of California appear to remain in persia fe purity, 'till there latitudes become better known and more frequented. The principal mines are in the pro vices of Zacatecas, new Biscay, and Mexico, situated il the inland parts of the empire, where it is impof-,P 2 fibs
a o 0 K bible for an enemy to penetrate by land, and to which,, there are no navigable rivers that lead. These mine may employ forty thousand Indians, under the direction of four thousand Spaniards.,THE mines belong to the person who discovers them The only form he is obliged to observe is to get hi samples approved by the government. As much land i granted to him as he chooses ; but he is obliged to giv a piastre, or five livres five fous ' a foot to the pro praetor. The third of what he purchases, belongs t government; which after long continued and absurd at tempts to have it worked on its own account, resolves t dispose of it to any one who will be purchaser, in prefer once to the person who works the mine. All the mine that are abandoned, become also the property of th crow nit receives 420 livres d for every hundred weight ( mercury that is used. In vain have intelligent people represented that this excessive tax necessarily discourage industry, but all they have said has been to little pus pore. All that has been obtained, is, the grant i credit for two years, but not without paying interea It is seldom that those who undertake to work mine are able to go on without these indulgences. The uncertain and hazardous enterprizes are scarcely ev undertaken, unless by men whose affairs are embarrass or totally ruined.,MEN of good sense and in easy circumstances, have more particular aversion for these undertakings, from tl obligation they are under of delivering to governed the fifth part of the silver, and the tenth part of t gold which they draw from the earth. The state had long time objected to this difference of taxation; b has been obliged to content to it; because the mines About 4. ;d. ill 1. 7s. 6d.,g(
gold being more precarious than those of silver, were to B O o it tally abandoned. Both the one and the other will soon be VI. unable to pay the tribute imposed on them. As gold and silver become more common in trade, the value of them is proportionally diminished, and becomes less adequate to the goods for which they are exchanged. This decreasing value of metals, would have been attended with still greater consequences, if the labours which pro cure them had not been successively rendered more arid more simple. This oeconomy is carried very near as far as it can go; and whenever that happens, the court of Madrid will be under a necessity of lessening the duties, unless it submits to have the best mines neglected, as the indifferent ones have been. Perhaps, it will soon be obliged to content itself with two reals or twenty fix fous ' a mark, which it receives for the duties of stamp ing and coining. The mint of Mexico annually coin about 65 mil lions of livres f; the sixth part nearly in gold, the rest in silver. About the half of this passes into Europe, a sixth part into the East Indies, a twelfth into the Spanish islands. The rest passes off insensibly in foreign colonies, or circulates in the empire. There it serves to carry on the inland trade, and to pay the taxes which are con 0 fiderable.,ALL the males among the Indians from eighteen to Taxes eft fifty, pay a poll tax of Ii livres 16 fous g, of which blhfidin eight ninths must be paid into the treasury, and the rest is destined to various uses. The Esteem who are deemed Indians for the two first generations, and free mulattoes, are subjected to the same taxation. Those negro slaves are exempted from it, for whom 280,e is. id. . f z,343,75o1. 2 About sos.,P 3 livres
B o o K livres h ave been paid to the king at their admission into,VI.,. the colony the Spaniards whom they have not so far degraded as to impose on them a personal tribute, are subjected to all the other taxes. The moR considerable of which, is that of thirty three per cent. on the value of all the goods that are sent to them from Europe, which retains twenty-five of this under divers denominations, and eight of it is paid at their arrival in the new world. This ruinous taxation does not prevent them from being afterwards subjected to the alcavala. THE alcavala is a duty on every thing that is sold or exchanged, and is paid as often as the sale or exchange takes place. It was established in the metropolis in ~34I, and it hath gradually advanced to ten per cent. of the value of merchandise sold in wholesale, and even to fourteen of all that sold by retail. Philip II. after the disaster of his fleet, so well known under the pompous title of the invincible, was determined by his urgent wants to introduce this taxation into Mexico, as in the other colonies. Though it ought to have been only a temporary tax, yet it has continued ever since. It is true, that it has not been augmented, and that it re gained at two and a half per cent. as it was at sires fettled. The crusade has not had the fame.fability. THE crusade is a bull which allows great indulgences and permits the use of eggs, butter, and cheese, during lent. The government, to whom the court of Rome gave up the benefits accruing from it, had divided the persons who were willing to avail themselves of it into four classes. This indulgence was paid by those who lived by their industry, at the rate of two livres fix fous i. Those, who had been able to raise a capital of jo,5co livres k, paid 5 livres 5 fous '; it colt o livles,a zL 5s. s. About 2 fillings. k Near 4601. I About 4 Sillings.,10 tfc;s
lofousm, tothofewhopoffeffed more than58,60oolivres°, B O O K and 52 livres Io fous ° to the viceroy, and those who VL. were invested with the most honourable dignities. It was left to every man's conscience, by informing him that he would obtain nothing, if he did not proportion his contribution to his fortune. Mexico alone then paid about 2,600,000 livres P. It is probable thatthis super station decreased, fince'the ministry in 1556 fixed this hull, for all conditions, at 0o fous 9. Government obliges nobody to take it; but the priests would refuse the comforts of religion to those who should not have purchased it; and perhaps there is not in all Spanifh America a man sufficiently enlightened, or bold enough to let himself above this imposition. ONE species of oppression, which has not been so patiently submitted to, is the duty which they have of late put on salt and tobacco. The people, who sus served their former calamities without murmuring, were highly disgusted with these innovations. One of them appeared so repugnant to natural right, and the other so strongly contradicted one of their most agreeable en moments, that though they had been for a long time accustomed to the yoke, there was an insurrection among them. The atrocious conduct of the farmers of the revenues, greatly added to the general discontent. It discovered itself from one end of the empire to the other, and has been heard of even in Europe. Some mild dispositions have palliated the evil; but they are still in a degree of ferment, that the metropolis will not easily appease without some sacrifice. One of the nose agreeable to its colonies would be that of stamped paper. INDEPENDENTLY of the regular tributes which Spain exacts of her colonies, she raises in times of distress, under the denomination of loan, considerable sums, of,m About 9 shillings and two pence. n About 25601. ¶ About 1-. 4s. P Near 14,000oool. . gd.,P 4 which
B o K which she hath never payed either the interest or 'tht, ' capital. This vexation, which began in the time 01,Philip II. hath been continued to our days. It was more frequently repeated under Philip V, than in the course ol the other reigns, which contributed not a little to render the French name odious in there countries. This con. retribution, which was levied on all who possessed any for tune, was urged with more eagerness at Mexico than in other places; because the Europeans, Creoles, Metres Mulattoes, and especially the !indians; were there in more affluent circumstances. The public prosperity has been greatly diminished in this country by the revenue laws, and is every day fill more so by the rapaciousness' of the clergy.,THr clergy rigorously collect the tenth of every pro duce. The functions of their profession are paid them at an extravagant price. Their lands are immense, and every day they acquire a greater extent of territory. They are thought to be in possession of a fourth bottle revenues of the empire. The bishop of Angels alone, has an income of i,260,0o0 livres I. These scandalous riches have multiplied ecclesiastics to such a degree, that they now constitute the fifth part of the whole population of the white people. Some of them were born in the colony; bat the greatest part are adventurers Come from Europe, in order to screen themselves from the au authority of their superiors, or to make their fortune ex petition. THE revenue of the crown is not what it qulght to be. The duties fixed on goods which are imported here from Cadiz, and on the ores, the quicksilver, the poll tax, the imports, the royal domain, are such great ob sects, that we cannot help being greatly surprised, when we see that the sovereign annually draws from Mexican,, Above 55,,c l.,though
though the best conducted of his possessions, no more . o o jc than about 6,300,00ooo livres . The rest, that into ay, v1. almost the whole, is absorbed by the civil and military government of the country, which are both in the. ut molt disorder. THE finances are Swallowed up by the vast number of clerks that are stationed every where; by corregidor who adminifterjuflice in the provinces ; bathe commandants of places ; by three superior councils of justice known by the name of Audience; by those who are invested with full authority, or by subalterns who gain the confidence of people in place. A part of this pillage finds its way into Europe, another part contributes to feed the pride, laziness, luxury, and profligacy of a small. number of Mexican towns, but principally of Mexico itself. THE Mexicans who for a time might have been at.a loss to determine whether the Spaniards were a swarm of robbers or a conquering people, saw their capital almost totally destroyed by those cruel wars, of which it was the theatre. Cortez was not long before he rebuilt it; and it has since been extended and embellished. . ITS streets are broad, straight, and intersect each other at right angles. The houses are pretty spacious, but without conveniences or decorations. Not one of the pub hic edifices that are shewn with the greatest ostentation to travellers, recalls to the remembrance the finer days of architecture, nor even the good gothic times. The principal squares have a fountain in the center, and are pretty regular; but this is all their merit. There is a walk with a jet d'eau, where eight alleys meet, whole trees have a form and foliage not very agreeable to the eye. Superstition has amassed treasures from all the quarters of the globe in innumerable churches, without there being a single one that raises the foul to any sub,* 27,0oo oI.,lime
S 0 o K lime ideas, or that can fill the heart with pleasing fen.,vs.,timents. THE air of this city is very temperate, so that woollen clothing may be worn all the year. The least precau. tions are sufficient to prevent any inconveniencies from the heat. Charles the fifth asked a Spaniard on his ar rival from Mexico, how long the interval was there between summer and winter; sur as long, replied he, with great truth and wit, as it takes to pass out sunshine its shade. THE city is built in the center of a great lake, which is differed by a very narrow isthmus. That part of the lake, whose water is soft, calm, and full of fish, falls into the other which is (alt, generally agitated, and without. fish. The circumference of this whole lake, which is unequal in its extent, is about thirty leagues people are not agreed with regard to the origin of there waters. The most common and probable opinion makes them issue from a large and lofty mountain situated to the south-west of Mexico, with this difference, that the lait water runs under a track of land that is full of mines, which communicate this quality to it.,BEFORE the conquest, Mexico and many other towns situated on the margin of the lake, were exposed to inundations, which rendered them dangerous to live in. Dikes constructed with incredible expence and labour, were not always sufficient to divert the torrents which poured down from the mountains. The Spaniards have also experienced these calamities. Most of their buildings, though constructed with care, and supported on piles, after a fcv. years, fink four, five, or fix feet, in a soil that is not firm enough to support them. THESE inconveniencies gave rise to the proves ol draining off the waters. Accounts that were prodigiously exaggerated, assure us that in i604, four hun cadi seventy-one thousand one hundred and fifty-fouu,7 Indian
Indians were employed in digging this canal. In order S' o o K,vi. to find a fund necessary for defraying the expense of it, one hundredth part of the price of houses, lands, and merchandise was exacted; a taxation unknown in the new world. Ignorance, discouragements, and parti ocular interests made this noble and wise undertaking miscarry. THE viceroy Ladeyrera, in 1635, thought that it would be of advantage, that it was even indispensably ne ceffaryto build Mexico in another place. Avarice, in capable of making any sacrifice; pleasure, ever afraid of interrupting its enjoyments; idleness, which dreads trouble; all the passions united themselves to thwart an idea, which in itself was liable to some objections. THE new efforts that have since been made to render living in this country as safe as it is agreeable, have not proved altogether successful : whether this may be owing to their not having been properly exerted, or that nature has thrown insurmountable obstacles in the way, Mexico remains still exposed to the fury of the waters; and the dread of inundations has greatly diminished its po imputation. The majority of historians assure us, that it formerly contained more than two hundred thousand fouls; at present it has not above fifty thousand. This number is composed of Spaniards, Meres, Indians, Negroes, Mulattoes, of such a diversity of heterogeneous races from the white to the black, that among an hundred faces one will hardly find two of the same colour. BEFORE this emigration, riches had accumulated in Mexico to an incredible degree. What in other court tries is made of iron and copper, was here made of silver or gold. Theft splendid metals, as well as pearls and precious stones, were employed to adorn their horses and Servants, the most common utensils, and used for the meanes purposes. The manners of the country, which awe always conformable to the luxury that prevails, corresponded
3o o K spondee with this stile of romantic magnificence. The we.,men, in their palaces, were waited upon by thousands o saves, and never appeared in public but with a retinue which among us, is referred for the majesty of; throne. To these extravagancies the men added prof. sons still greater for negro women, whom they public] raised to the rank of their mistresses. This luxury which was so excessive in the ordinary actions of life, exceeded all bounds on occasion of the slightest festivals. Ths general pride then exerted itself, and each man lavished millions to acquire the superiority for his own parti. ocular tate. The crimes necessary to support this extra balance, were previously atoned for; as superstition had pronounced every man holy and just who foul contribute liberally to churches the treasures, and the pomp naturally attendant upon them, must necessarily have diminished at Mexico, ir proportion as those who possessed them fought an afylurr at Angelos and other towns. The advantage, however which this capital enjoys of being the center of the do. minion, the feat of government, the place where the coin is struck, the residence of the greatest proprietor. of lands and of the richest traders, has always occasioned the greatest part of the principal affairs of the empire t( be transacted here. ccnee- THE trade Mexico carries on with the other parts o tac of America is much confined. By the north tea it receive-sith the from Maracaybo and Caracas cocoa greatly superior to it-fame. r.a. with own, and negroes by the way of the Havannah anc,E .i1' Cartagena: it gives in exchange meal and silver. n Eu. I-sT connections with the south sea are of greater utility to it, without being much more confiderable. Ors finally Peru was allowed to send annually to Nec Spain two vessels, whose cargoes together were not t( exceed one million ten thousand livres'. This was som-tunc afterwards reduced to half. It was totally sup,t Above 44,c,. r1.
pressed in 1636, on pretence that it prejudiced the trade B o K of the metropolis, by the quantity of East India goods Vl. it imported into the country. The merchants of Lima complained a long time, but ineffectually, of a barba rous law that deprived them of the double advantage of selling the superfluities of their commodities, and of receiving those they wanted. The communication be tween the two colonies was at last re-established, but with restrictions which prove that the government had not acquired any considerable information, and that it only yielded to importunity. Since this period, the vessels sent out from Callao and Guayaquil, carry cocoa, wines, and brandies to Acapulco and Sonfonnate on the coast of Guatimala, and bring back pitch, tar, ariosto, indigo, cochineal, iron, the haberdashery wares of Angelos, and as many contraband goods as possible from the Philippine islands, so celebrated in Europe from the connexions which they have with Mexico. The im portance of this communication seems to require that we should trace 'its origin. WHEN the court of Madrid, whose ambition increased with their prosperity, had formed the plan of a 'great establishment in Asia, their attention was 'seriously en gaged in considering of expedients to insure its success. This project must necessarily be exposed to great difficulties The riches of America so powerfully attracted the Spaniards, who consented to a voluntary exile, that it did not appear possible to engage them to go and fettle at the Philippines, unless it was agreed to give them a share in these treasures. This sacrifice was resolved upon. The rising colony was authorized to send every year into America, India goods in exchange for metals. THIS unbounded liberty was attended with such con sequences, that it excited the jealousy of the metropolis. Things were a little quieted by restraining to 3,150,000 livres' the trade allowed to be carried on. This sum,. Near s38,ocl.,was
3 o o K spondee with this stile of romantic magnificence. The wo.,VI. . men, in their palaces, were waited upon by thousands ol,slaves, and never appeared in public but with a retinue, which amongst us, is reserved for the majesty of a throne. To these extravagancies the men added prof. Lions fill greater for negro women, whom they publicly raised to the rank of their mistresses. This luxury which was so excessive in the ordinary aaions of life, exceeded all bounds on occasion of the slightest festivals. The general pride then exerted itself, and each man lavished millions to acquire the superiority for his own parti, ocular table. The crimes necessary to support this extra balance, were previously atoned for; as superstition had pronounced every man holy and just who should contribute liberally to churches the treasures, and the pomp naturally attendant upon them, mure necessarily have diminished at Mexico, in proportion as those who possessed them fought an asylum at Angelos and other towns. The advantage, however, which this capital enjoys of being the center of the do minion, the feat of government, the place where the coin is struck, the residence of the greatest proprietor; of lands and of the richest traders, has always occasioned the greatest part of the principal affairs of the empire to be transacted here. ccnc:c- THE trade Mexico carries on with the other parts of tjiuz of America is much confined. By the north fca it receives-with the from Maracaybo and Caracas cocoa greatly superior to its ren. w;rh own, and negroes by the way of the Havannah and r-Eat tn Cartagena: it gives in exchange meal and silver.,.- Eu ITS connections with the south lea are of greater uti-,lity to it, without being much more considerable. Originally Peru was allowed to send annually to New Spain two vessels, whose cargoes together were not to exceed one million ten thousand livres t. This was rome time afterwards reduced to half. It was totally sup-,t Above .4,c. Ol.,preflhd
pressed in 1636, on pretence that it prejudiced the trade B o o K of the metropolis, by the quantity of East India goods V'i it imported into the country. The merchants of Lima complained a long time, but ineffectually, of a barba rous law that deprived them of the double advantage of selling the superfluities of their commodities, and of receiving those they wanted. The communication be tween the two colonies was at last re-established, but with restrictions which prove that the government had not acquired any considerable information, and that it only yielded to importunity. Since this period, the vessels sent out from Callao and Guayaquil, carry cocoa, wines, and brandies to Acapulco and Sonfonnate on the coats of Guatimala, and bring back pitch, tar, ariosto, indigo, cochineal, iron, the haberdashery wares of Angelos, and as many contraband goods as possible from the Philippine islands, so celebrated in Europe from the connections which they have with Mexico. The im portance of this communication fens to required that we should trace'its origin. WHEN the court of Madrid, whose ambition increased with their prosperity, had formed the plan of a great establishment in Asia, their attention was serious en gaged in considering of expedients to insure its success. This project muff necessarily be exposed to great difficulties The riches of America so powerfully attracted - the Spaniards, who consented to a voluntary exile, that it did not appear possible to engage them to go and fettle at the Philippines, unless it was agreed to give them a share in there treasures. This sacrifice was resolved upon. The rising colony was authorized to send every year into America, India goods in exchange for metals. THIS unbounded liberty was attended with such con sequences, that it excited the jealousy of the metropolis. Things were a little quieted by restraining to 3,150,000 livres" the trade allowed to be carried on. This sum,* Near 138,0col.,was
Bo O K Was divided in twelve thousand equal shares. Every,VI' head of a family was to have one, and persons in places number proportioned to their rank. Religious com. unities were comprehended in this arrangement, ac. cording to the extent of their credit, and the opinion that was entertained of their utility. Two hundred of there shares were allowed to the Jesuits, whose employ ments and enterprizes seemed to require greater means the vessels which departed at first from the island of Cebu, and afterwards from the island of Luconia, originally took the route of Peru. The length of this voyage was prodigious. They discovered trade-winds which opened a much shorter passage to Mexico; and this branch of commerce was translated on its coe.f, where it was established every year, in the middle of July, they send out from the port of Manilla, a galleon, which is commonly from eighteen hundred to two thousand tons. After getting clear of a multitude of islands and rock which delayed its course, it fleers east-north-east, in order to meet with the weft winds in thirty de green latitude, which bring them in a straight count to the end of their voyage. This vessel, which is very heavy laden, is fix months on her passage, because th. tailors who are on board, from their extreme timidity never hoist the main fail in the night time, and after. lower all their fails without the least occasion. At sadi the ship arrives at Mexico.,THE coasts of this great empire are not Ii!:e those of Peru, where the vicinity and heights of the Cordeliers afford a perpetual spring, and cause regular and mill winds to blow. As soon as the ship has passed the lassitude of Panama the free communication of the atmosphere east by weft, not being any longer interrupted by this prodigious chain of mountains, the climate becomes different, In reality, navigation in there latitudes is,s¥eC
safe and easy from the middle of October to the begin B o o K- king of May; but during the rest of the year, the viol Fences of the weft wind, the dreadful storms,, the excessive rains, the suffocating heats, the total calms; all there obstacles, which are combined or succeed each other, render the sea troublesome and even dangerous. Throughout this whole extent of coast, which is more than fix hundred leagues, there is not a single bark to be seen, nor even the leat canoe, either for trade or fishing. Even the ports, which are scattered up and down here, are open, defenceless, and exposed to the insults of the first pirate that may be inclined to attack them. The port of Acapulco, where the galleons arrive, is the only one that has attracted the attention of go government. SHIPS arrive there by two inlets, separated from each other by a fall island: the entrance into them in the day, is by means of a sea breeze, as the failing out in the night time is cfieed by a land breeze. A wretched fort, forty-two pieces of cannon, and a garrison of sixty men, defend it. It is equally extensive, safe, and com odious. The bason which constitutes this harbour, is surrounded by lofty mountains, which are so dry that they are even destitute of water. The air here is hot, heavy, and unwholesome to which none can habituate themselves, except certain negroes that are born under similar climate, or rome mulattoes. This feeble and miserable colony is crowded with a vast accession to its numbers upon the arrival of the galleons ; traders flock ing here from all the provinces of Mexico, who come to exchange European toys, their own cochineal, and about ten millions x of silver for spices, muslins, printed linens, silks, perfumes, and the gold works of Asia. After continuing. about three months, the vessel takes,: 437,5coi.,again
B o o K again the 'route of the Philippines before the first 'o,a , April with :one or two companies of infantry that disappointed to relieve the garrison of Manilla. Part of the riches' vwii'whith it is laden remains in the colony, the reit is distributed among the nations which had con tribute to form its-cargo.,THe' immense 'paces which the galleons have to tra. verse, has made it necessary to look out for places where they might take in refreshments. The first that has been met-with of this kind, is on the route from Acapulco to the Philippines, in those islands known at sirs by the name of the Ladrone, and since by the name of Marianneiflands; They were discovered by Mageilan)in 152r.--they were at first neglected; the galleons after wards used to put in there for refreshment; but there was no regular settlement made here till the year 1678. THESE islands are situated at the' extremity of the south lea, near four hundred leagues to the eat: of the Philippines. Their position in the torrid zone prevents not the climate from being moderately temperate. The air is pure, the shy serene, and the soil fruitful. Before their intercourse with the Europeans, the inhabitants, who were always naked, lived only on fruits, roots and ii. As fishing was their usual and sole occupation, they had construed canoes, more perfect than any that have ever been found in the rest of the world. THE people, who are very numerous, and are diffused in twelve islands, that are the only inhabited' ones in this archipelago, have gradually diminished since the in vision of the Spaniards, either by contagious disorders, or by the bad usage which they have experienced. The remainder, to the number of two thousand seven hun died persons, have collected themselves in the center of the island of Guam, which may have from twenty-five to thirty leagues circumference. It is garrisoned by a,7 hundred
hundred men, who are appointed to defend two small B o 0 K forts that are situated on two roads, one of which re VI. cives a finally vesse-which every two years arrives here * from the Philippines, and whether is destined to furnish refreshments to the'galleon. This last fort is so wretched, that the vessel never flays here more than two days, and in that short time it is often exposed to very great dan gers. It is very extraordinary that. Spain has not fought for a better harbour, or very singular that no one has been found in such a multitude of islands. California presents an asylum more secure to the galleons that come from tile Philippines to Acapulco. CALIFORNIA is properly a long neck of land which stretches from the northern coals of America, and runs along between east and south as far as the torrid zone: it is walled on each side by the pacific ocean. The part that is known of this peninsula is three hundred leagues long, and ten, twenty, thirty, or forty broad. .IT is.impoffible that in so vast an extent, the nature of the soil, and the temperature of the air ihouid be eqvry,.where the same. It may be said, however, that in general the climate here is dry and excessively hot; the ground bare, stony, mountainous, sandy, and consequently barren, and unfit for agriculture and breeding cattle. Amidst the small number of trees that are found here, the more useful is the pitahaya, the produce of which-constitutes the principal food of the Californians. Its branches which are fluted and perpendicular, have no leaves, and it is from the stems that the fruit grows. It is prickly like the Indian chesnut; but its pulp re females that of the fig, with this advantage, that it is much sweeter and more delicate. THE sea, which is richer than the land, swarms with fish of every kind in the greatest abundance, and of the noes exquisite taste. But what renders the gulf of California of more importance, is the pearls, VOL. II. Q which,
B o O K which, in the fishing fetfob, draw together the inhabit,' wants of all the provinces of Net Spain.,THE Californians are well made and very stOut. An extreme pusillanimity, inconstancy, indolence, stupidity, and even insensibility, form their character. They are children in whom the powers of reason are not yet un. folded. They are farther than the Mexicans. This difference of colour proves that the civilized life of so city, subverts or totally changes the order and laws of nature, since we find under the temperate zone a savage people that are blacker than the civilized nations of the torrid zone. BEFORE the Europeans had penetrated into California, the natives had no form of religion; and their government was such as might be expected from their ignorance Each nation was an assemblage of several cot takes, more or less numerous, that were all mutually confederated by alliances, but without any chief. They were strangers even to filial obedience. The men wire acquainted with no species of dress, but the women co vexed those parts nature intended should be concerned with extreme care. WHETHER these particulars were known or nor, certain it is that Mexico was no sooner reduced and tranquillity established, than the plan was laid for the con quest of California. Cortez landed there in 1526. He had-not even time to take a survey of it, because he was obliged to return to his government, where the report of his death had disposed the minds of the people to a ge nerva insurrection. The several attempts that have since been made to form an establishment there, have all been unsuccessful. The endeavours of the court were not more fortunate than those of individuals. If we pay the least attention to the spirit that directed these enterprizes, we shall find that want of humanity, courage, and per severance was the cause of there mriSforttlties. There,AWsS
was not a single expedition that was not ill concerted or B o o t imprudently conduced. V. SPAIN dispirited with her losses and expences, had en timely abandoned the acquisition of California, when the Jesuits in 1697 solicited permission to undertake it, As loon as they had obtained the consent government they began to execute a plan of legislation, which they had formed from accurate ideas of the nature of the soil, the character of the inhabitants, and the influence of the climate. They were not guided by fanaticism. They arrived among the savages they purpose to civilize with curiosities that might amuse them, grain proper to be their food, and apparel fit to please them. The hatred :hesse people bore to the Spanifh name, could not sup port'itfelf against there demonstrations of benevolence. The testified their acknowledgments, as much as want of ,sensibility and their inconstancy were capable of.,fie Rvc5ps were in part subdued by the religious .ifli- tu ors , whip prosecuted their project with a warmth and resolution peculiar to their body. They made them flees carpenter os, m a s, weavers, and husbandmen, and by, these means succeeded in imparting knowledge, and income pleasure a taste for the first arts of necessity to thilovpoe people; who have been all successively formed into one body. In 1745, they confided of forty-three visages, that were separated by the barrenness of the soil and the want of water. This republic will augment, proportion as the successors of those who formed it, fhaMilt-roequte their labours northwards, where, accord into t plan that was judiciously concerted, a communication was to be establiShed between the missionaries of the peninsula, and those of the continents They are only separated from each other by the river Colorado. THESE i all boroughs principally submit on corn and pulse which they cultivate, and on the fruits and domestic animals of Europe, the breeding of which is la object of continual attention, The Indians have,Q.2 each
o o K each their field, and the property of what they reap;,V1. but such is their want of foresight, that they would squander in a day what they had gathered, if the missionary did not take upon himself to distribute it to them as they want it. They already make some coarse stuffs. The necessaries they stand in need of, are purchased with pearls, which they fil in the gulf, and with wine that nearly resembles that of Madeira, which they sell to New Spain and to the galleons, and experience hath shewn it is highly important that the use of this liquor should be prohibited thl:m.,TWELVE laws, that are very simple, suffice to regulate this rising state. In order to enforce the observance of them, the missionary chuses the most intelligent person of the village; who is empowered to whip and imprison, the only punishments of which they have any knowledge. IN all California there are only two garrisons, each confining of thirty men, and a soldier with every missionary These troops were felled by the legislators, and are under their orders, though they are paid by ,the govern-went. The court of Madrid saw no inconvenience in leaving these trifling forces in the hands those who had acquired their confidence , and they de confronted to them that nothing but this expedient would have prevented the oppression of their new sub. seas. .,H aEY will continue happy just as long as no mines are discovered in their territory. If there are any miles, as the great number on the other side of the gulf is a (long presumption, no sooner will they be-found out, but the edifice that has been reared With such trouble and good sense, will be at once subverted. These people, like so many others, will disappear from the surface of the earth. The gold, which the Spanish government would draw from California, would cedric it of the advantages which its policy may now find in,3 th
the labours of its missionaries; who should rather be E o o K encouraged to pursue their useful undertakings. These, VI. perhaps, might enable the court cf Madrid to build forts, which would put them in a condition of beholding with tranquillity the discovery of that passage which the English have long fought for, the north-weft passage to the pacific ocean. It has also been imagined that these ram parts might prove a barrier against the Ruffians, who in 1741 penetrated within twelve degrees of Cape Men domino, the most northern position that has hitherto been known of California. But if they had observed that this voyage could not be undertaken but from the seas of Kamtrchatka, they would have been sensible that no thing could be fitted out there, but weak armaments merely to gratify curiosity, and which consequently could not occasion the leaf disquietude. AN advantage more certain, and lets remote, is the facility which California gives of reducing the provinces .which extend from the other side of the gulf to th river Colorado. These rich countries arc at such a distance from Mexico, and so difficult of access, that it appeared as dangerous to attempt the conquest of them, astufelefs to execute it. The liberty, the safety of the .self California, ought to encourage the undertaking, finis the means of succeeding in it, and insure the advantages accruing from it. Philosophers themselves .ill invite the court of Madrid to these expeditions, as soon as they shall have seen them solemnly abjure those fanatical and dcftruAive principles which have hitherto constituted the bails of their policy. IN the mean time, till Spain shall adopt there great speculations, California serves for a place for ships that fail from the Philippines to Mexico to put in at. Cape St. Lucar, situated at the southern extremity of the peninsula is the place where they touch. There they find a good harbour, refreshments, and signals which give,. 3 them
0 O0 K them information if any enemy appears in these ]ati- . ' latitude; relate are very dangerous, and where they have teen the most frequently attacked. It was in 1734 that ; c ea lucca a.ived here for the firs time. Its orders and its necessities have always since that time brought it hither the system adopted by all the governments of Eu rope to hold colonies in the most absolute dependence on tile metropolis, has always made the connections of Mexico with Asia, suspicious to several of the 'Spanish politicians. The opinion which has prevailed, and is still maintained, that it is not possible to preserve' the Philippines, without this communication, has alone pre vented them from having it broken. All their efforts have only been able to limit it, by hindering Peru from having any share in it. This vast empire has by severe and repeated laws been deprived of the advantage of drawing directly from the east, that merchandise of which it stood in need, and of the liberty even of indirectly deriving it from New Spain: THESE shackles were difapproved'by the bold and fertile genius of A!beroni. Full of the most extensive views for the prosperity and glory of that monarchy which he attempted to restore, he purposed to retain in it the treasures of the new world, to which it had hitherto served only as a mart. According to his plan, the east was to furnish all the articles of dress to the Spanish co ionics and to the metropolis itself, which it would have received through the channel of its colonies. Justly expected that those powers, whose interests this ar rangement would prejudice, and whose industry it would ruin, would strive to obstruct it; but he studied to brai' their fury in the European seas, and he had already-given orders for putting the coasts and harbours of the South Sea in a condition of not being intimidated by any dif-,3 tressed
tressed and worn-out Squadrons that might happen to B o o K attack them. VI. THESE views were defective in precision. Alberti transported by the enthusiasm of his opinions, and by his hatred against those nations that purposed to em barras his measures, did not perceive, that the silks and linens that should be imported into Spain in the way he proposed, would bear such an excessive price, as would necessarily prevent the consumption of them. The project of cloathing the people of North and South America from Asia, appears to be a very sensible one. THE colonists would be cloathed more agreeably, cheaper, and in a manner better adapted to the climate: The wars of Europe would not expose them to the want of things that are indispensably necessary: They would become more wealthy, would be better affected to their mother country, and better enabled to defend them selves against the enemies it might draw upon them: These enemies themselves would prove less formidable; because they would gradually lose the strength which the furnishing of Peru and Mexico with provisions procures them. In a word, Spain by receiving on India goods the amenities as it receives on those with which its rivals furnish it, would lose no branch of its revenues. It might even, if occasion required, obtain from its co ionics succours, which at present they have neither the disposition nor the power of granting. We [hall insist longer on the commerce of Mexico with the East Indies; let us now speak of its connections with Europe by the north sea, and begin with that which the pro auctions of Guatimala form. THE province of Guatimala, which is one of the largest of New Spain, was conquered in 1524, and 1525, by Pedro de Alvarado, one of Cortez's lieutenants. lie built in it several towns, and in particular the capi-,Q 4 tat,
B. 0 Or tat, which bears the name of the province. It is situation a valley that is about three miles broad, and bounded by two mountains that are pretty lofty. From the mountain towards the south run several rivulets and found pains, which yield to the villages, that are situated on the declivity, a delicious freshness, and maintain a per petal succession of flowers and fruits. The asper of the mountain, that is to the north, is horrid. There is no verdure ever seen upon it: nothing but ashes, and calcined tones. A kind of noise, which the inhabitants ascribe to the boiling of metals that are in a state of fdfioa within the caverns of the earth, is heard, conti annually. From these interior furnaces issue flames,. ans torrents of sulphur, which fill the air with an horrible infection. Guatimala, according to the expression of the country, is situated between paradise and hell. IT situation, and its distance from Mexico and Guam dalajara, have occasioned it to be fixed upon for the "at of an audience, which extends its jurisdiction over three hundred leagues to the south, an hundred to the north fate to the east, and twelve to the weft, towards the South Sea. The advantages it derived from this distinction informed it into a considerable colony, and this colony made the most of those gifts which nature had bestowed uponjt. There is no country in this part of the new world, where the hath lavished her blessings with greater profusion. The air here is very wholesome, and the climate very temperate. Poultry and game are in the greatest abundance, and of an excellent flavour. No part cf the earth produces better corn. The rivers, lakes, and sea, are every where replete with excellent fill. The oxen are here multiplied to such a degree,' that it is become necessary to kill all that are grown wild on the mountains, left they should prejudice agri culture by their excessive numbers.,THIs
Tttj fertility, however, is not the circumstance that B O o K rendetsg.uatimala so valuable to the metropolis. Spain VI" has properly no connection with this-colony but by means of the indigo she derives from it. This is far superior to what the ret :of America produces., In the cultivation of it they employ certain negroes, and.a part of those Indians who have survived the tyranny of their conquerors. The labours of these slaves annually fur;' nigh, to Europe alone, two thousand five hundred furrows which sell one with another at Cadiz for l68e livres. This rich production is conveyed upon mules, with some other articles of lesser consequence, to the town of St. Thomas, situated sixty leagues from Guatimala, at the extremity of a very deep lake which loses itself in the gulf of Honduras. Here these goods always re nain to .be exchanged, for those that are sent from European vessels of a moderate bulk, which commonly arrive in the months of July or August. Their cargo in return consists of some skins, tome cassia, and rome sarsaparilla, which is all the trade that the province of Honduras. furnishes, though it be an hundred and fifty leqgueslong, and sixty or fourscore broad. The re, potation it had sirs acquired, from its golden mines, was but transitory: they sank into total oblivion, after having. proved the grave of nearly a million of Indians. The.territory they inhabited remains uncultivated and waste: it is now the poorest part of all America. Both the people and the lands were sacrificed to the search after gold, and even that gold came to nothing. Guatimala nearly furnishes the whole of those 6,oooooo livres %, which is the amount of its produce conjoined to those of Honduras. The lake on which hesse riches are all accumulated, is entirely open, though it would have been very easy to have secured it from,1 731. ;os. z62sl01.,every
B 0 o K every attack; so much the more easily as its entrance is,Vl rendered narrow by two high rocks, which prose on,each side within cannon shot. It is probable that Spain will not alter her conduce till the has sus served for her negligence; which might be easily es. seed. THE vessels that should undertake this expedition might anchor in perfect safety in the road. A thousand or twelve hundred men landing at St. Thomas, might cross fifteen leagues of the mountains, where they would find commodious roads and subsistence. The rest of the way would be across plains that are well peopled and plentiful. They would arrive at Guatemala which has not a single soldier, nor the leafs forti fiction. Its forty thousand fouls, Indians, Negroes, Meshes, and Spaniards, who have never seen a sword, would be incapable of the least resistance. In order to save their lives, they would deliver up to the enemy the immense riches that they have been accumulating for two centuries, which would amount at least to thirty millions '. The troops would remark with this booty, and if they chose it with hostages, that would insure their retreat. The trade of Campeachy would be exposed to the same invasion, if it were worth it.,BETWEEN the gulph of Campeachy and Honduras we find a great peninsula, called Jucatan. Though this peninsula has neither river nor brook, the water is every where so near to the land, and shells are. in such vast abundance, that it is manifest that this immense space formerly constituted part of the sea. When the Spaniards discovered it, they found few inhabitants there, little cultivation, and no metals, in consequence of which it was despised. They afterwards found that the trees which grew there were fit for dying, upon,a 5,35i,5oolh,which
which they built the town of Campeachy, which became B O O the mart of this valuable production, that gave it its . Y name. IF this tree were not so thick, it would .rot be un like the white thorn. Its leaves are small and of a pale green. The inside, at sirs red, becomes black after the tree has been felled some time, It is only . 'heart of this tree that-gives the black and the violet colour. CAMPEACHY was indebted to the single traffic of this article, for the advantage it possessed of being a very confiderabie market, It received every year. several vessels whose cargoes were distributed in the inland countries and which took in return wood and metals which tlri'cirfclation drew thither. This prosperity was con tihfially augmenting 'till the time that the English fetid at Jamaica. AMIDST the vast numbers of those pirates which every day issued from this island, that was become fa mous, several were to cruise in the bay of Campeachy, to intercept the vessels which failed there. These rob boers knew so little of the value of the wood, which was the only production of the country, that when they found barks laden with it, they took away nothing but the iron utensils. One of them having carried off a large vessel which had nothing else but the logwood on board; brought it into the Thames, designing only to equipiit as a privateer ; when, contrary to his expectation, hessld 'at a very great price the wood of which he rtiaktfo little account, that he had always burnt it dur ing'his voyage. From this discovery, the pirates, who Srtedi'i ufuccefsful'at sea, never failed to repair to the ti ft-'Charftpetton, where they put on board the piles f'Wood uiich 'were always found ranged on the there. ':TiEa.cz:e bs' the English with Spain, having put a stop to the depredations of these pirates, several of them,employed
Bo OK employed themselves in cutting Indian wood. Cape,"-L ,Catch furnished them at first with abundance. Bassoon as they perceived it diminish, they went to fettle between Tabasco and the river of Champion, about lake Triste, and in Beef island which is very near it. In i675 their numbers amounted to two hundred and sixty. Their ardour, which at first was extreme, soon relaxed. The. hab;; of idleness prevailed. As the greatest part of them were excellent shooters, the chace became their predominant passion; and their for mer inclination to plunder was rekindled in them by this exercise. They soon began to make invasions into the Indian towns, the inhabitants of which they carried off. The women they appointed to wait on them, and the men they sold at Jamaica or other islands. The Spaniard was roused from his lethargy by these enormi. ties, surprised them in the midst of their debaucheries. and carried them off. Most of them were even taken ir their cottages, they were led prisoners to Mexico, when they ended their days in the mines. THosE who escaped, took refuge in the gulf of ron. duras, where they were joined by some wandering'free. brothers of North America. In process of time the) increased to fifteen hundred men. The free inde. sentence, and plentiful manner in which they lived rendered the marshy country they inhabited agreeable tc them. Strong entrenchments secured their lives and their provisions; and they confined themselves to em employments, which their unhappy companions lamented that they had ever neglected. They only took care no to penetrate into the interior part of the country to ca wood without being well armed their industry was crowned with the greateftfuccefs In reality, the tun of wood which had been sold as high as nine hundred livres b, was gradually fallen to a Vertex 391. 7s. 6 delos
low price, but what was lost in the price, was corn B 0,0 o penates by the greater quantity that was sold. The VS. cutters delivered up the produce of their labours, either to the people of Jamaica, who brought them Madeira wine, strong liquors, linens, cloaths, or to the English colonies of North America, which supplied them with the provisions. This commerce, which was always car cried on by Smugglers, and which was the object of so much clamour, became lawful in 1763. The liberty of cutting wood was secured to Great Britain, but the was not permitted to raise forts, and was even obliged to destroy those which had seen built. The court of Ma did seldom hath made any concessions with greater regret than this of establishing in the center of its possessions an active, powerful, and ambitious nation. But there is a method to render even this concession almost useless. THE province of Jucatan is divided from north-east to south-west, that is, throughout almost its whole extent, by a chain of mountains. To the north of these mountains is the bay of Campeachy, whose dry and thirsty soil produces a wood of a singular quality, which is sold at all markets at near double the price of that which the English cut at the southern bay of Honduras, where the rich and almost marshy soil produces only a bastard kind, and which yields much less dye. If, as the expressions of the treaty, which admit of rome latitude in their meaning, lead us to apprehend, great Bri tain hath acquired only the right of fettling in thole :places which its subjects had usurped, Spain may put an end to her uneasiness on this point, by encouraging the cutting of its own wood which is more valuable, in such a manner as to furnish all Europe with enough for their consumption. By this judicious policy, She will ruin the English colony, and without force get rid of a neighbour much more dangerous than flie imagines
o o K gives; she will then regain an important branch of its. trade, which for a long time hath been so considerably reduced, that Campeachy receives from the mother country no more than a single vessel every three or four years. What this does not bring away is car cried off by small cries to Vera-Cruz, which is the true point of union between Mexico and Spain.,OLD Vera-Cruz served at first for a mart. This town, built and founded by Cortez, on the very spot where he landed, is situated on a river, which is dry one part of the year, but which in the rainy season is ca able of receiving the largest vessels. The danger to which they were exposed in a situation where nothing defended them against the violence of the winds so com mon in there latitudes, indulged the seamen to seek for more secure shelter; which they found eighteen miles lower down on the same coast. There they built new Vera Cruz seventy two leagues distance from the capital of Mexico. Nrw Vera-Cruz is situated in a climate rendered disagreeable by a burning fun and by the excessive heats, or unwholesome by the continual rains. Dry sands bound it on the north, and ingenious marshes on the weft. Its streets are straight, but the houses are built of wood. No nobility are to be met with here, and the merchants always prefer living at Angelos. The small number of Spaniards, who are fixed here either by avarice, or by indigence in so wretched and dangerous a place, live in a privacy and with a parsimony that are unknown in all other commercial places. THs fortifications of the town consist of a. wash, eight towers erected at certain distances, and two bas tions which command the shore. These works,, weak in themselves and ill constructed, are in an extremely ruinous state; so that for the defence of the place they depend only on the fortress of St. Juan de Ulloa, that is,built
built on a rock, fronting the town, and at the distance B o o K of a mile from it. vI. THIS harbour has the disadvantage of not being able to hold more than thirty or thirty-five vessels, which are not always sheltered from the northern winds. The entrance into it is by two canals only, which are so narrow, as to admit but one hip. The approaches also are rendered so dangerous by several small islands, which the Spaniards call Cayos, and by a great number of rocks between wind and water, almost imperceptible. There obstacles which they deemed insurmountable, except by a perfect knowledge of the spot acquired after many years experience, having been overcome by certain desperate pirates, who surprised the place in 17I2, towers were constructed on the shore, where vigilant sentinels continually keep guard for the common safety. IT is into this wretched harbour, which is properly the only one there is in the gulf, that the feet ar rives, whose destination is to furnish Mexico with Euro pean merchandise. It is fitted out at Cadiz every two, three, or four years, according as occasions and circumstances require. It ordinarily consists of fifteen or twenty merchant ships, and is escorted by two men of war, or a greater number, if requisite. WINEs, brandies, and oils, constitute the moi bulky part of the cargo. Gold and silver stuffs, gold and silver lace, cloths, linen, silks, laces, hats, jewels, diamonds, and spices compose the richest part. Ti't'lSleet sets out from Europe in the month of July, but at the latest in the beginning of August, in or der it' avoid the dangers which it would incur from the violence or the north wind in the open sea, efpe- cially'at the landing places, if it set fail in any other season: In its passage it takes in refreshments at Porto Rico, and repairs to Vera Cruz, from whence its cargoes
B 0 0 K is carried to Xalapa. In this town, which is situated twelve leagues from the harbour on the back of a mountain and commodiously built, is held a fair, which is limited by the laws to fix weeks, but which sometimes is prolonged at the solicitation of the merchants of the country or those of Spain. The proportion of metals to merchandise is what determines the gain or lots of exchange. If one of these objects is in greater abundance than the other, great prejudice results to the feller or buyer. Formerly the royal treasure was sent from the capital to Vera-Cruz, to wait the arrival of the feet there; but since this key of the new world was pillared by pirates in 16S3, it waits the arrival of the iiiips and flops at Angelos, which is only thii:t-fice Leagues dirfant.,WHEN thebufncef is finished, the goij, fi.cr, cochineal leather,vanilla,logwood, and some goods of inconsiderable value which Mexico furnishes, arc put on board. The fleet then dire ts its course for the Haf;:nna, where after being joined by fore register Chips dispatched to different ports, it arrives at Cadiz by the channel of Bahama.,IN the interval between the one fleet and the other, the court of Spain sends out two men of war which they call Rogues, to carry to Vera-Cruz the quicksilver that is necessary for working the mines of Mexico. The quicksilver was originally drawn from Peru; but the commissions were so uncertain, so flow, and so frequently attended with fraud, that in 1734 it was judged to be more convenient to send it from Europe. The mines of Guadalcanal at first furnished them with the means. These were afterwards forsaken for the richer mines of Almeida in Estremadura. The Rogues, to which they sometimes join two or three merchant ships, which can only carry the fruits of Spain, arc laden in return with the produce of those goods that have been fold,filcc
since the departure of the fleet, or of thole which had B o o K been delivered on credit. vl. IF any arrears fill remain, they are commonly brought back by the ships of war which Spain builds at the Ha vanna; and which always pals to Vera-Cruz, before they set fail for Europe. Affairs are conducted in a different manner at Peruse as will be shewn in the subsez quest book;,END OF IHE SIXTH BOOK. ydi s. 0 0BO S
B 0 0 K VII. Conquer of Pen by the Spaniards. Changer that bern happened in this Empire since that change of geoen. mint. B 0 K / Columbus was no sooner firmly eflablinhed,vniI . C in the island of San Domingo than he prosecuted Expeditions his discoveries. In one of his voyages he discovered the cee'4 t- Oronooko, and in the other the bay of Honduras. He discovery of clearly saw that what he had found was a, continent and his genius led him further than merely to fufpefi that beyond this continent was another ocean, which nut terminate at the East Indies. It was possible that these two seas might have a mutual communication, and he studiously employed himself to find it out. In order to make this discovery, the failed along the coat as near as he could. He touched at all places which were accessible; and contrary to the custom of the na visitors of his time, who behaved in the countries where they arrived in such a manner as if they were never to revisit them, he treated the inhabitants with equity, at mention, and humanity, which procured him their as section. The isthmus of Darien particularly engaged his observation. He thought that the rivers, which poured into it, were an arm of the great ocean, which united by a narrow strait, the seas of South and North America, and therefore seemed to open to his wishes the passage and communication he was in search of. After he had explored there rivers with extreme at-retention,
mention, and found himself disappointed in his expe&a- B 0 0 K tions, he contented himself with founding a colony. The pride, mercenary disposition, and imprudence of his companions, inspired the natives of the country with the utmost hatred, who at first appeared tolerably well disposed to permit this establishment. They were obliged to remark and fail away in vessels which were not in a condition to keep the sea any longer. THE intelligence however which was obtained was not entirely lost. Vesuvius, Ojeda, Lacofa, Pincon, Soldan, Nina, Lopez, Bastion, Solis, and Nicest, followed the path which Columbus had traced out for them. These adventurers, who had only received from government a permission to make discoveries, in order to satisfy the vain glory of the nation rather than to extend its dominions, thought neither of establishing colonies which they might cultivate, nor forming commercial connections with the petty nations which they disco vexed; The prospect of remote fortunes which might have been made by there prudent measures, was too much above the prejudices of these barbarous times Even the reasoning which might have led them to the knowledge of there advantages, would not have imparted A sufficient impulse to animate them. Nothing but the allurement of immediate gain could stimulate men to enterprises so hazardous as were those for which this agewas distinguished. Gold alone attracted them to the continent of America, and made them brave dan gers, diseases and death, which they were exposed to in recourse of their voyage, at their arrival, or their re turn.; and by a terrible but just vengeance, the Euro peanbarbarity and luff osgood, exhausted at once the two hemispheres of their inhabitants, and destruction raged equally among those who were the plunderers and allflins, as among the plundered peoples AMONG
J 0 0 K :AMoNG the number of villains who ravaged, depot. L - -' - plated, and destroyed there unhappy coasts of a world which was no sooner discovered than it was exterminated, there was one man who had naturally an agreeable as pet, a robust constitution, an intrepid courage, and a popular eloquence, and who had imbibed some good principles from a liberal education. His name was Vasco Nugnes de Balboa. Finding at Darien, where there was greater plenty of riches than in other places, a fm.-.i number of Spaniards, whom this circumstance alone had attracted there, he put himself at their head, with the design of forming a permanent settlement. He found at first in the country some of that same species of little white men, as are to be met with in Africa and in certain of the Asiatic islands. They are covered with a down of a glistening: white colour. They have no hair; and their eyes are red. They only see well in the night time. They are feeble, and their faculties appear to be more circumscribed than those cf other men. There savages were few in number; but others of a different species vere found on the coast. There. yere brave and hardy enough to defend their liberty. They had a very extraordinary custom among them, which was, that the husbands on the death of their wives, and the wives on the death of their husbands,. used to cut off the end of a finger; so that by looking on their bands one might see whether they were widowers or widows, and how often they had been sono thing has ever been or will probably ever be said, that can satisfactorily explain the various, per. versions of human reason. If the women alone had been obliged to cut off a finger at the decease of their husbands, it would be natural to suspect that they had purposed hereby to prevent a widow from frauduir.tiy palming herself for a virgin on a second husband who might have had no knowledge of her former connection,
tion, a thing very feasible among wandering nations. n o o k But this conjecture would be groundless, when applied vL. to the case of husbands, whose condition could never be attended with such great inconveniences, as that they should have studied to indicate i' by indelible signs. This custom hath obtained in other countries; but the following is peculiar to Darien. WHEN a widow died, they interred in the same grave such of her children, whose tender age rendered it-ime possible for them to provide for their own subsistence. As nobody would take the charge of there orphans, they butchered them to prevent their being starved to death. The charity of there barbarians extended no further. This is the greatest enormity, to which the molt deplorable state of savage life was ever able to im pet mankind. Notwithstanding the ferocity of there barbarians, Balboa succeeded in dispersing the inhabitants of Da rien, in subjecting them or gaining their confidence, and he fettled his countrymen on their territory. ONE day as he was dividing some gold with one of his companions, a contest arose between them. A savage, incensed at a rapaciousness so repugnant to his mariners, shook the scales so violently, that he overset all the'gold that was in them. Since you quarrel for such a trifle, said he to the two Spaniards, and it is this metal which has made you quit your country, and harass Jo many nations, I will lead you to a place, where you shall be sati sied. He fulfilled his engagement, and conducted Bilboa, with one hundred and fifty Spaniards, across a neck of land sixteen or seventeen leagues long to the coast of the South Sea. PANAMA, which was built there in 1518, opened a new and extensive career, to the restlessness and avarice of the Caftillians. The ocean, which washed its wal's conveyed them to Peru, whose riches were boast of,R 3 i
B o o K in this part of the new world, though but in a vague-t- v manner. The reports that prevailed concerning .the strength of this immense empire did not cast a damp upon that ardour which its treafiirs excited; and the world saw without astonishment three men, born in obscurity, un. undertake at their own expence to subvert a throne that had subsisted with glory for several centuries. Francis PIZARRO, who is the most known among them, was the natural fen of a gentleman of Firma. dura. His education had been so neglected that he could not read. Tending of flocks, which was his first em payment, not suiting his character, he embarked for the nae world. His avarice and ambition inspired: him with a boundless activity. He was in every expedition, and signalized himself in most of them; and he acquired in the several situations in which he was employed, that knowledge of men and things, which is indifpenfably-pe- effigy to advancement, but in particular-to those whb by their birth have every difficulty to struggle with. The use he had hitherto made of his natural and. nora abilities, persuaded him that nothing was above his:ta- lents, and he formed the plan of exerting them against Peru.,To there designs he associated Diego de Almagro, whose birth was equivocal, but whole courage :wa, proved. He had ever been found temperate, pa tient, and indefatigable in those camps in which he had grown old. In this school he had acquired a frankness which is oftener learnt here than in other situations; as well as that obduracy and cruelty which are but too common the fortune of two soldiers, though considerable, be ing found insufficient to the conquest they meditated, they joined themselves to Fernando de Luques. He was a mercenary priest, who had amassed prodigious wealth by all the methods which superstition renders cafe ro,hi;
his-profession, and by some means peculiar to-the man B o 0K lies of that age. '" . --As-the basis of their association the confederates mu ttllly agreed, that each Should engage the whole of.,his property in this enterprize; that the wealth accruing-from it should be equally hard, and that they fhputd reciprocally observe an inviolable fidelity. The parts gt each was to act in this great scene, were distributed as the good of the common cause required. Pizarro was to-command the troops, Almagro conduct the succours-and Luques prepare the means. This plan of ambition, avasic., and ferociousness, was completed by fanaticism-laiqes'publicly consecrated a host; part of which he arte, and divided the ref between his two associates; all three swearing by the blood of their God, that to en rich: themselves, they would not spare the blood of S*tti; - - 'T.aHE expedition commenced under these horrible au spices, was not fortunate; the measures being continu ally interrupted by famine, sickness, and misunderstanding by a profound ignorance of the theory of the winds and currents, and by the arms of the Indians, they found themselves reduced to the necessity of returning without having effected any establishment, or done any thing worthy of being transmitted to posterity. At the - end of 1526, Panama received the wrecks of an arma ment, which two years before had excited its jealousy. - FAR from being discouraged by these calamities-the-three associates were fired with a more vehement-pass sion of possessing treasures which were now better known to them. They imagined that they should at last as 'surely acquire them, if they could disengage themselves from a dependence on the governor of Panama, who had opposed them, sometimes openly, at other times clandestinely. The court of Spain granted them what they solicited, and their audacity now took a higher . A;iht,
B o o K flight. In 153o they fitted out three veffels,-:on board · -. ' . of which they embarked one hundred fourscore and five,. soldiers, thirty-seven horses, arms, and ammunition these forces, which were successively augmented::by some feeble reinforcements, recommended by Pizarro, who after a series of extreme difficulties which his in trepid avarice surmounted, at half arrived at Tumbles on the frontiers of Peru. - . Free f , IF the Spaniards may be credited Peru had been.an it a, il extensive and civilized empire for four centuries;. It,cd was founded by Manco-Capac, and by his wife;Mama-,Ocello-Huaco. It has been conjectured that-these two persons might be the descendents of certain navigators of Europe or the Canaries, who were shipwrecked on the coats brasil. ' ill; To support this conjecture, it has been, said, that the Peruvian divided the year as we do into threehunti died and sixty-five days, and that they had some: motion of astronomy; that they were acquainted with the points of the horizon where the fun sets in the summer and winter solstice, and in the equinoxes; marks which.:tbe Spaniards destroyed as being monuments of Indian su. petition. It has been asserted, that the race of the In cas .as whiter than the natives of the country, and that several of the royal family had beards ; but it is a known fat, that there are certain features, whether ill-formed or irregular, that are preferred in fume families, though they do not constantly pass from generation to genera tion. And lastly, it has been said, that it was a tra. edition generally diffused throughout Peru, and handed down from age to age, that there would one day arrive by sea men with beards, and of such superiority. in arms, that nothing could resist them. . Ir there Should be any of our readers disposed to adopt this opinion, they mute necessarily allow that there mail have elapsed a considerable space of time between these lliip-
shipwreck, and the foundation of the Peruvian empire. B O O K Without supposing this immenfeinterval, would not the V¥, legislator have given the favages'whom he collected to gathers some notion of writing, though he should not himself have been ,able to read ? Would he not have taught them several of our arts and methods of doing things ? Would he not have instructed them in certain tenets of his religion ? Either it was not an European who founded the throne of the Incas, or we must ne necessarily believe that the vessel of his ancestors was wrecked on the coasts of America at an ara so remote, that the'fucceeding generations must have forgotten all the customs of the place from whence they.fprang. :tit .was on an hilly country that Marco at first established his dominion. Perhaps, he found there people llCfs barbarous, better disposed to receive instruction, :ad who had already begun to be civilized. It is far from being improbable that society forms much more Slowly in countries that are fruitful and abounding in vegetables, than in those to which nature has been less bountiful. It is the want men have of assistance from each other, that more strongly induces them to unite in society; and this reciprocal dependence is more fen sibly felt on barren mountains, than in fruitful plains. ,Tai two legislators declared themselves the children of the fun. Undoubtedly they thought that this pre judice would animate the Peruvians, rouse their courage, and inspire them with a greater attachment to their country, and more submission to the laws. Was this fiction. more absurd than those which have been so warmly embraced by some celebrated nations, which still armour guides and our models ? EY the aid of this deceit the empire of the Incas had flourished under eleven sovereigns, who were all prudent, humane and full, when the emperor Huana Capac seized )Ippn Quito. In order to cure the possession of it, unmarried
s > 6 t tia d-the uonl* Miir6fs of the dethroned king, froth f' whom he had a son named Atabalipa. This y6uitig'priete,,after: the death of his father, demanded the inheritance-f-his mother; His older brother Huafcar tfuafed t6pit him in poelfimn of: it j on which they had redoure'ib ans .The nmoit ambition. of the two brothers!was .beaten, taken prifoner,l'and shut up in Cuff,, Where-ie fas afterwards singled. His happy. rival now:elevated above his warmest: expectations, found himself masters al the provinces. . Times troubles, which for the first time had agitated Peru *ere not entirely appeared when the i Spaniards landed in the empire. Those people who. weire-'vlliiig tt appease the fun, whom they believe wil:herflted against them, loaded these Rangers with 'pefe(Sns, shewed them the kindest offices, and rmaniFled a retfp for them which bordered oh adoration. *In'thatlcbhn- fiction in which the whole kingdom was fiil'- Mt'olved, nobody thoughts opposing Pizarro's miateh,' who ar cried without the leat obruftion at the palace of.Caxga. malta. He was but just arrived, when he received;frbm Ata~ spa, who was not far disant, fruits, ten; emeralds and several vases of gold and silver. '1'hlrecep- lion which the court gave to his brother Ferhnantio,- or r-realised with these advances. They:wereirprofafe-ii - 'cities, and lavished treasures, and: marks, dilifc- o- eton I pon him. The emperor however did rii&ffliible 'is desire that the Spaniards would quit his ,p-rlvireies, :ind he publicly declared that he wouldgge'fhie hinext ithoriing to concert with their chief proper'Feiaftires'for this retreat. ' - f --sto prepare for battle without suffering thdeeafl pre marathon of war to be perceived, was the drily disposition that Pizarro made for the reception of the prince. He planted his cavalry in the gardens of the palace, where they could foot be sein : the infantry was in-the court,' 1
sophia artillery was pointed towards the gate; wher ¢e the , enipe'r was to enter, . . ., AT-.AjALIPA cae without suspicion to the place ap pointed He was attended-by. about fifteen. thousand mere-ide was carried on-a- throne of, gold, ,and gold glittered in the arms of his troops-He turned to the principal officers, and said to thei: Thefe.-flrangers are the .fingers of the Gods.; be careful -f handing them. They were now pretty near the palace, 'which was oc copied by Pizarro, when a dominican, named Vincent de-V.lverdo, with a crucifix in one hand, and hiW breviary in the other, came up to the emperor. He fioppM4 him.in-hia march, and, by his interpreter, made him' a long speech, in Which be expounded to him the chtiF- sian religion, pressed him to embrace this mode bs worship and proposed to him to submit to the kiag!iof Spain, to-whom the pope had given Peru. The emperor, who had heard him with a great deal-ps patience, replied, I am very willing to be the friend-of:'the king of Spain, but not his vassal the pope must .Arely.be a very extraordinary man, to give so liberally whatdoes not belong to him. I shall not changes religion for another; and if the christians adore a'God-who Died upon a cross, I worship the fun who-never - diei-ie then asked Vincent where he learnt all that he-hadst said of God and the creation. In thisbook, replied the :monk, presenting at the same time his breviary to-the emperor. Atabalipa took the book, examined it on-all-fides,-fell a laughing, and throwing away the breviary added, This book tells me nothing of all this. Vincent then turned towards the Spaniards, crying out with all his might, Vengeance, my friends, vengeance. Christians, darayu not fie. how he desires the gokel ? Kill these logs, who trample under sot the law of God. .: .THE Spaniards, who probably had with difficulty re strained that fury, and that thirst of blood which the fight of the gold and of the ii:fi(!ds had inspired therewith,
B O OK w vith,-infLnttly obeyed the dominican. Let the reader-.~ judge of the impression that must have been made on,the.-Peiuviaznsby the fight of the horses who-trampled uponi-themrarn by the.noife and-effet of the.-annoa and iranuketrywhich.beat them down. These wretches led with 'fnctiprecipitation, that they sell one upon nbthei. A- dreadful slaughter was made of them. P~sarrojhimfelf advanced towards the emperor, made his irfeantiv pu; t the sword all that surrounded his throne, took-the monarch prisoner, and'purfued all the rest of the day those who had escaped the sword of his soldiers. A multitude of princes of the race of the Incas, the minis rers,-the flower of the nobility, all that composed' the court of Atabalipa, were massacred. They did not even spare that prodigious crowd of' women, old men, and child dren,-who:wsere come from ail parts to see their emperor and the Spaniards. Whilst this carnage continued, Vincent ceafed.not to animate the assassins who were tired manslaughter,. exhorting them to use not the edge hut the point of their swords, in order to inflict deeper wounds. ' When the Spaniards returned from this atrocious butchery, they passed the night in drunkenness, dancing, and all the excT.lrs of debaucheries the mean time Pizarro's thoughts were engaged in contriving how he should get rid-of his prisoner-vincent said that he was an hardened prince, thought to be treated like Pharaoh. There was in-the train bf-the Spaniels general, an Indian who had embraced the chris t n faith. His name was Philipillo, and he was em p!oyed as interpreter. They pitched upon him to frame mn accusation against the emperor for having define tS-raife his subjects against the tyrants. On this sole deposition, Atabalipa was condemned to death. They bjd the effrontery to try him with all the forms, aunt this atrocious farce was followed with those horrid con : ucrncs, that must ncccliarily be expected from it.,AFTER
after this judiciary assassinations Pizageppeoetted X , K into the inland parts of the empire-cusco opened.(o .-" him its gates, and offered him more treasures, tbhrthahere perhaps were in all Europe before the difcoveryof,,;he new world. These treasures became the spoils two hundred Spaniards, who, though magers,:of such is. mense riches, fought for more,. impeilediby that thir-laps gold .which increases in proportion s ,it, is gratified Temples and private houses were stripped, from one .end of the kingdom to the other. The Peruvians were opt prefixed in all parts, and rapes committed every where on their wives and daughters. ' . THE people driven to desperation took up arms, and laid siege at once to Cusco and Lima: but there un happy wretches in several engagements were not able to kill: more than frx hundred of their enemies; who con finally receiving fresh supplies, were at last universally victorious. In a little time the Spaniards in Pcrn amounted to the number of three thousand musketeers, without reckoning pikemen, archers, and cavalry. she Peruvians were under a necessity of submitting to the yoke, such as the tyrants chose to impose . o them. - : So remarkable a revolution hath been a fubje:: of amazement to all nations. Peru is a country very-,difr sicut of access, where one must continually .climb mountains, and perpetually march in narrowlpalfes and defiles. One is there obliged to be incessantly passing and repassing torrents and rivers, the banks of which: are always steep. Four or five thousand men, with a .lacerated Share of courage and understanding would destroy the most numerous and best disciplined armies., How could it then possibly happen that a-whole nation did not even attempt to dispute a country, the nature of which was so well known to them, against a few plunderers who had not the least idea of it ?the
3B .QO 1r T-Hr reason is, because fear is the child of ignorance,Vi d and amazement, because a disorderly multitude car denoting against a small number of disciplined forces, ant because courage unarmed cannot resist cannon's Thus without having recourse to that vain prophecy, which proclaimed the Spaniards as the avengers of the Gods, Peru muff necessarily have been subdued, even though the domestic dissentions with which it was then agitated, bad not facilitated their fubjetion.,THE empire which now received the Spanish yoke had been governed for four centuries, or perhaps more, by a race of conquerors, who appeared to have con queried only for the happiness of the human species. They descended from a legislator, who could not perhaps have been paralleled in history, if Confucius had not had one advantage over him, that of having no occasion to recur to superstition, to insure allegiance and obedience to his laws.,MANCO Capac, who collected together the savages of Peru, 'that were scattered among the forests, styled him self the offspring of the fun, who was sent by his father to teach men to be good and happy. He persuaded a great number of savages to adhere to him, and he founded the city of Cusco. HE taught his new subjects to cultivate the ground, to sow corn and pulse, to wear cloaths, and build houses. His wise taught the Indian women to spin, to smooth cotton and wools; and instructed them inall the exercises suitable to their sex, and in all the arts of do mystic oeconomy-HE told them that they must adore the fun; he built temples to this luminary, and abolished human sacrifices and even those of animals. His descendents were the only priests of his nation's a religion replete with humanity were joined pa rental laws. A most wise inflitution enjoined that young
young man, who should commit a fault,, should, be B o0 o, sightly punished; but that his father. should be responsible for him. Thus it was that found morals were always inculcated by a good education. POLYGAMY was prohibitd;,and, adultery in both sexes punished. No one was allowed to have concubines but the emperor, because the race of the fun could not be too much multiplied, These concubines were fe'- lead from among the virgins consecrated to the temple. IDLENESS was punished as the source of wickedness, and therefore as the greatest of crimes. Thofewhom age and debility incapacitated for labour, were mail tained'at the public charge ; but on condition that they should preserve the lands that are sown from the devastation of birds. Every one was obliged to make his own shoes, manage his own house, and construct his plough. Women made the apparel, and every single family knew how to supply its own wants. - THE Peruvians were enjoined to love one another, ai'devery circumstance led them to it. Those common labours, which were always enlivened by agreeable songs;, the object itself of there labours, which was to assist every one who had occasion for their succour; that apparel that was made by young women devoted to, the worship of the fun, and distributed by the emperor's 'officers to the poor, to the aged, and to orphans; the Union which must reign in those decrees, where every 61oe was mutually inspired with respect for the laws, and with the love of virtue, because the punishments that were inclined for the faults of one individual; feel on :the whole' body; that culforn of regarding each'other as members of one single family, which was the empire ;-all these manners maintained among the Peruvians con cord, benevolence, patriotism, and a certain public spirit, and contributed as much as possible to substitute ' the
B o o K the moi sublime and amiable virtues, in lieu of per-,fonal interest, of the spirit of property, and of the usual incentives employed by btherlegifiators. THESE virtues were rewarded with marks of distance tion, as much as if they had been services rendered to the country. Those who had signalized themselves by an exemplary conduct, or by any distinguished actions of utility to the public good, wore as a mark of decoration cloaths wrought by the family of the Incas. It is very probable that those statues, which the Spaniards pre tended that they found in the temples of the fun, and which they took for idols, were the statues of men, who by the greatness of their talents, or by a life replete with illustrious actions, had merited the homage or love of their fellow-citizens.,SUCH great men were also the customary subjects of poems composed by the family of the Incas for the il fR.u&ion of the people there was another species of poetry conducive to moralist). At Cusco, and in all the other towns of Peru, tragedies and comedies were rcprcfcntcd. The first were lessons of duty to the priests, warriors, judges, nrd people of divination, and were held up to them as models of public virtue. Comedies served for instruction to persons of inferior rank, and taught them the ex excise of private virtues, and even of domestic occo- norny.,THE whole slate was distributed into decrees, with an officer that was appointed to superintend ten families that were intruded to him. A superior officer had the same inflexion over fifty families, others over a htijidred, five hundred, and a thousand. Tir decurions, and the other superintending of fibers up to the superintendent of a thousand, were obliged to give an account to the latter of all actions whether good or bad, to solicit punishments and re-wards
wards for each, and to give information if there was any B o o K want of provisions, cloaths, and corn for the year. VI The superintendent of a thousand made his report to the minister of the Inca. ALL the laws were severe, but this severity was at tended only with good cffe&s. The Peruvians were strangers to crimes. All their laws were reputed to come to them from the fun, which threw light upon their actions. Thus the violation of a law became a sacrilege They even went of their own accord to reveal their most secret faults, and to sollicit permission to ex plate them. They told the Spaniards, that there never had been one man of the family of the Incas, that had deserved punishment. THE lands of the kingdom, that were susceptible of cultivation, were divided into three parts, one appro printed to the fun, another to the Inca, and the third to the people. The first were cultivated in common, as were likewise the lands of orphans, widows, old men, the infirm, and the soldiers who were with the army. These were cultivated immediately after the lands appro printed to the fun, and before those of the emperor. The time for this duty was announced by festivals: it was begun and continued with the found of musical in ferments, and the chanting of hymns. THE emperor levied no tribute, and exacted nothing from his subjects, but the cultivation of his lands; the whole produce of which, being deposited in public ma gaines, was adequate to all the charges of the em pire. THE lands, dedicated to the fun, provided for the maintenance of the priests and for the expence of con secreting those magnificent temples whose inside was in crushed with gold, and whose roofs were of silver. WITH regard to the lands, that were in the hands of individuals, they were neither hereditary, nor even VOL. II. S estates
B o K estates for life: the division of them was continually va-trying, and was regulated with strip equity according to the number of heads which composed every family. There was no other wealth, but what arose from the produce of the fields, the temporary enjoyment of which was all that was granted by the state this custom of moveable possessions has been uni verbally censured by intelligent people. It has been their general opinion, that a nation would never rise to any strength, and to any greatness, but by fixed, and even hereditary property. If it were not for the firs of these means, we should see on the globe only wandering and naked savages, wretched by subsisting on such fruits and vegetables, as are the sole and scanty production of rude nature. If it were not for the second, every individual would live only for himself; mankind would be deprived of every permanent advantage, that paternal affection, the love of a family name, and the inexpressible consciousness that we feel in benefiting posterity, urge us to pursue. The system of some bold speculations, who have regarded property, and particularly that species of it which is hereditary, as an usurpation of certain members of society over others, is re fated by the fate of all those institutions, where their principles have been reduced 'to practice. They have ail miserably perished, after having languished for some time in a state of depopulation and anarchy. Peru alone hath prospered on so uncertain a basis. THE reason probably is, that the Incas not know ing the use of imposts, and having only the commo cities of nature to supply the necessities of govern ment, must have been obliged to study how to multiply them. They were seconded in the execution of this prose by their ministers, by inferior officers, and by the soldiers themselves, who received nothing but the fruits of the earth for their subsistence and the sup-sport
port of their rank. Hence so much solicitude to aug B o o K ment them. This attention might have for its principal VL object, the introduction of plants into the lands of their sovereign: but his patrimony was so mixed and con founded with that of his fubjeas, that it was not possible to fertilize :he one without fertilizing the other. The people encouraged by these advantages, which left little scope to their industry, applied themselves to la hours, which the nature of their soil, of their climate, and of their consumptions rendered very easy. But not withstanding all these advantages, notwithstanding the ever alive vigilance of the magistrate; notwithstanding the certainty, that they should never see their harvests ravaged by a restless neighbour; the Peruvians never raised themselves above the mere necessaries of life. We may venture to assert that they would have acquired the means of diversifying and extending their enjoyments, if their talents had been excited by the introduction of rented, transferable and hereditary property. THE Peruvians, though at the very source of gold and silver, knew not the use of coin. They had neither commerce nor luxury and the more minute arts, which owe their existence to the immediate wants of social life, were in a very imperfect state among them. They had not even hieroglyphics, which among all na tions were the first essays towards writing; and their 9uippos, which supplied the place of writing among them, were not so good as the hieroglyphics of the Mexicans, nor even as those of the Iroquois. BUT the Peruvians being without property, with out trade, and almost without the relation of mu tuas interest, governed moreover by masters, whole will framed all those transitory laws, which regulated their manners, had scarcely any occasion for writing All their sciences consisted in memory, and all their arts in example. They learnt their religion ands 2 their
B o o K their hilary by songs, and their duties and profeffionsby,Vh', labour and imitation their legislation was undoubtedly very imperfect and limited, fine it supposed the prince always just and in fallible, and the magistrates as perfect as the prince. Among a civilized people, who had not the art of writing the laws must have been fatal, when their manner did not determine the application and use of them; when not only the monarch, but his officers, a superintendent of ten, of an hundred, of a thousand, might chance at his pleasure the destination of punishments and rewards. Among such a people, the wisest laws being destitute of all precision and liability, muff insensibly change, nor would there remain a possibility of bringing them back to their primitive characterise counterbalance of these dangers was found in their absolute ignorance of gold and silver coin; an ignorance, which in a Peruvian despot rendered the fatal phrenzy of amassing riches impossible. It was found in the constitution of the empire, which had determined the amount of the sovereign's revenue, by determining the portion of lands which belonged to him. It was found in the extremely small number and moderate na ture of their wants, which being easily gratified, ren tered the people happy and attached to the government. It was found in the influence of their religious opinions, which made the observation of the laws a matter of con science. Thus was the despotism of the Incas founded on a mutual confidence, between the sovereign and the people a confidence, which resulted from the beneficence of the prince, from the constant protection he granted to all his subjects, and from the evident interest they had in preserving their obedience to him.,A PYRRHONISM, which hath succeeded to a blind credulity, and hath been sometimes carried to unjustifiable lengths, hath for some time endeavoured to throw a,clolli
cloud over what has been just related of the laws, man B o o J,VII. news, and happiness of antient Peru. This picture v. hath appeared to some philosophers as chimerical, and formed only by the naturally romantic imagination of a few Spaniards. But among the destroyers of this distinguished part of the new world, was there a single ruffian capable of inventing a fable so consistent in all its parts ? Was there any among them humane enough to wish to do it, should he have been capable of the talk ? Would he not have been restrained by the fear of aug meeting that hatred, which so many devastations had brought on his country throughout the whole world ? Would not the fable have been contradicted by a multi tide of witnesses, who would have seen the contrary of what was published with so much pomp ? The unanimous testimony of cotemporary writers, and of their im mediate successors, ought to be regarded as the strongest historical demonstration that can possibly be desired. THE care is not the same in regard to thole exaggerated relations, which the conquerors of Peru published concerning the grandeur and magnificence of the monuments of all kinds that they found there. The desire of adding greater splendor to the glory of their triumphs, might perhaps blind them. Perhaps, without being con winced themselves, they studied to impose on their own country and on foreign nations. The first testimonies, and those even were contradictory, have been invalidated by succeeding accounts, and at last totally de strayed, when intelligent persons travelled in this celebrated part of the new hemisphere. WE must therefore consider as fabulous the report of that prodigious multitude of towns built with so much la your and expence. If there were so many superb cities in Peru, why do none exist, except Cusco and Quito, but those the conqueror built ? Whence comes it that we dos 3 not
B 0 o K not find even the ruins of any of those, of which suche . pompous descriptions have been published ?ewe must consider as fabulous the account of those majestic palaces destined for the accommodation of the Incas, in the place of their residence and in their travels The royal mansions so pompously displayed, were nothing but flints placed one upon another, and covered with a reddish clay. WE must consider as fabulous the relation of those for ratified places, which defended the frontiers of the empire. Would it have been conquered in so short a time, if it had been furnished with such considerable means of defence ? M. de la Condamine, who visited with that scrupulous attention that distinguishes him, the fort of Canna, which is the best preserved, and the molt considerable next to that of Cusco, found it to be of very small ex tent, and only ten feet high. A people, who knew not the use of pullies, could hardly raise their buildings higher. They have not less exaggerated the size of the stones, that were employed in building their fortresses. After the most careful examination, there was not found any one of a size greater than common. When they wanted to transport there masses, they fattened cords to them, and a number of men, pushed, drew, and rolled the weight along. A nation which had made no greater progress in mechanics, could not execute any great things. WE must consider as fabulous the history of those re fervours, and aqueducts, that are worthy, say they, of the antient Romans. Neither of them were ever to be found in Peru, unless we choose to honour with there magnificent names, certain trenches that were made wherever there was an opportunity on the declivity of hills, to collect rain or spring water, and conduct it into the fields and valies.,WE
WE must also consider as fabulous the display of those B o o K. superb roads, which rendered the communication so easy. vl'- The great roads of Peru were nothing else but two rows of flakes disposed in a line, and intended for no other pur pole but to point out the way to travellers. There was no road of any consequence, except that which bore the name of the Incas, and which traversed the whole em pire. This, which was the most beautiful monument of Peru, was entirely destroyed during the civil wars of the conquerors. WE must also consider as fabulous what has been said of those bridges, which are so much boasted of. How could the Peruvians raise stone bridges, who were ignorant of the method of construing arches ? But had they known this art, would not their want of lime have rendered it almost impracticable ? It is certain, however, that the traveller was every mo ment stopped in his passage by a great number of torrents he met with among the mountains. To enable him to pals there, they extended from one bank to the other a long cord of osier, on which slid a basket, that held at most four men. The number of cords was afterwards multiplied, and they fixed hurdles upon them, by which a greater number of people crossed at the same time. The Spaniards, who seem born to destroy and not to build, have not failed to adopt so marvellous an invention. WE must also consider as fabulous what hath been written on the signification of quips. These were, say the Spaniards, registers made of cords, in which, by means of different knots and different colours, they expressed every thing they willed. The re membrane of any essential points of history, man news, and ceremonies, was perpetuated by knots; and shall firings tied to the principal cords recalled to their minds circumstances of less importance. These me moors were deposited in the custody of officers appointed by
B o o K by public authority, and an entire confidence was placed vii. in their integrity. In reality, these singular annals ex-exhibited no regular narrative, and could only serve for certain calculations, or for preserving the memory of some particular event the Spaniards do notdeferve more credit, when they tell us of those baths that were made of silver and gold, as well as the pipes that supplied them ; of those gardens full of trees, whose flowers were of silver and the fruit gold, and where the eye being deceived mistook art for nature; of those fields of maize, the firms of which were of silver, and the ears of gold; of those baflb-re- lievos, in which the herbs and plants were so admirably exhibited, that whoever saw was tempted to gather them; of those dresses covered over with grains of gold more delicate than the feed of pearl, and the workman ship of which the ablest goldsmiths of Europe could not have equalled. We shall not say, that these works were not worthy to be preserved, because they never had an existence. If the Greek statuaries in their compositions had only employed precious metals, it is probable that few of the capital productions of Greece would have reached us. But if we may judge of what hath perished by what still remains, we may be certain that the Peru viands had made no progress in the art of designing. The vases which have escaped the ravages of time, will serve as a signal proof of the industry of the Indians to supply their want of iron tools, but they will never be monuments of their genius. Several figures of animals, and of insects in massive gold, which were long preserved in the treasure of Quito, were not more perfect. We cannot any longer judge of them, for they were melted down in 1740, in order to furnish succours for Cartagena that was then besieged by the English ; and there was not found in all Peru, a Spaniard curious enough to purchase a single piece at the bare weight.,FROC
FROM what has been said, it appears clearly, that the B o o K Peruvians had made scarcely any advances in the abftraa v&I. sciences; they even wanted words to express moral or metaphysical ideas. Most of the sciences depend on the progress of the arts, and these on accidents which do not occur naturally but in a course of several centuries, and of which the greatest part are lost to people, who have no intercourse with enlightened nations. IF we reduce all there accounts to the simple truth, we (hall find that the Peruvians had arrived at the art of fusing gold and silver; that they even possessed the secret, which is lost in Europe, of giving copper a temper like to that we give to steel; but that, though they were acquainted with iron, they had never arrived at the knowledge of forging that metal, which is the very foundation of all arts. They never conceived the idea of burning bricks or tiles, the materials of which they had always at hand. They executed however things less commodious and more difficult. The view of tor rents, which they saw hollowing out beds for themselves in rocks, probably gave them the idea of cutting stones. With hatchets of flint, and incessant friction, they con trivet to square, to make them answer to each other, to give them the same height, and to join them without cement. Unhappily these instruments had not the same effect on wood, as they had upon stone. Thus it hap opened, that the same men who shaped granite, and who drilled the emerald, never knew how to join timber by mortises, tenons, and pins; it was fastened to the walls only by rushes. The most remarkable buildings had only a covering of straw, supported by poles, like the tents of our armies. They had only one floor, had no light but by the entrance, and confided only of detached apartments, that had no communication with each other.,BUT
o o K BUT whatever were the arts, which the Spaniards vn . found in the country of the Incas, they could not fe-cure the empire from the sway of its conquerors. A moment of refinance longer, and, perhaps, the Peruvians had been free. The conquerors had differences to fettle among themselves, which did not admit of a division of their forces. Cmrwars THE first intelligence of Pizarro's success had no of te Spa sooner been carried to Panama, but Almagro, his principals after their con pal associate, set out with the utmost expedition with new quat o£ Ple. adventurers to (hare the treasures, lands, and govern-ment of Peru. There was in this claim an equity, which the author of the discovery was not disposed to perceive. From that time jealousy and hatred took possession of all their hearts. There were two chiefs, two parties, and two armies; and Coon after, by means of a forced accommodation, two governments from the collision of these factions, necessarily re suited troubles of a new kind. Civil wars commonly originate from tyranny and anarchy. A power without limits, and a liberty without restraint, must produce the same consequences. The magistrate looks upon the people only as so many rebels to his authority, and the people in their turns only regard him as an usurper. Reason is too weak an instrument to regulate claims so repugnant to each other. The decision of rights is re ferret to the sword, and he that has the longest sword is found to have the best cause. THOUGH the interests, which divided the Spaniards in Peru, were not of this importance, yet they were at tended with the same, if not greater excesses. Almagro and his adherents, had passed the sea for no other pur pose than to enrich themselves with the gold of the country. Of this they had less than their opponents, and they wanted to wrest it from them by the sword. Whether Pizarro' thought his presence necessary else-,5 where,
where, or whether, as he himself said, he felt a re B o o K lance in fighting against his old friend, he committed vu to his brother Fernando the charge of conquering him and his hopes were not disappointed. Almagro was beaten, and made prisoner, on the banks of the Apurimac, on the 6th of April 1538. The conqueror, who had private revenge to gratify, judged, that the author of there disturbances ought not to live. This great sacrifice he offered up, for the fake, as he said, of the pub. lick tranquillity. THE partisans of Almagro, being dispersed by the death of their chief, conducted themselves with great prudence and circumspection. The absence of Fernando, who was gone to Europe, either to solicit a reward, or to justify his severity according to the dispositions he Should find predominant at the court of Madrid, appeared to have extinguished in their bosom all resentment. They seemed to study nothing but how to obtain the good-will of the person, who had it in his power to dispense fa yours to all. By means of the confidence which they had the happiness to inspire, they lived without molestation insensibly drew nearer to each other, and found a center of communication in the son of a man, whose loss they had never ceased to deplore. The death of Francis Pizarro was solemnly and unanimously decreed among them. ON the day fixed, which was in the month of June 1541, the conspirators at mid day crossed the streets of Lima. They had preferred the light of day to the obscurity of the night, in order by that means to prepossess the multitude in favour of the justice of their projects, or the justness of their measures, and to prevent even an idea of an attempt to frustrate them. Their stratagem succeeded, nobody stirred ; and the conqueror of so many vast kingdoms was quietly massacred in the center of a town that he had founded,,and
B o K and whose inhabitants were composed of his creatures vii. his servants, his relations, his friends, or his soldiers those whom they judged most likely to revenge his death, were murdered after him: their fury took a wide range, and every one who dared to Shew himself in the streets and in the squares, was regarded as an enemy, and put to the sword. Instantly the houses and temples were filled with slaughter, and presented nothing but mangled carcases. Avarice which would not see among the number of the rich any but the partisans of the old government, was still more furious than hatred, and be came more alive, more suspicious, and more implacable The image of a place carried by assault by a barbarous nation, would communicate but an imperfect' idea of that spectacle of horror, which these ruffians now exhibited, who wrested from their accomplices the booty of which they had disappointed them. THIS cruel massacre was followed by enormities of another kind. Tale foul of young Almagro seems to have been formed for tyranny. Every one who had been in employment under the adversary of his family was inhumanly proscribed. The antient magistrates were deposed. The troops were put under the com and of new officers. The royal treasury, and the wealth of those, who perished or were absent, were seized upon by the usurper. His accomplices, attached to his fortune by being partakers of his crimes, were forced to give their support to designs, which filled them with horror. Those among them, who suffered their uneasiness at these proceedings to transpire, were either put to death in private or perished on a scaffold. During the confusion, in which a revolution so unexpected had plunged Peru, several provinces submitted to this monster, who caused himself to be proclaimed go vernon in the capital ; and he marched into the hearts
of the empire to complete the reduction of every place B o K that opposed or hesitated to acknowledge him. Vl. A multitude of ruffians joined him in his march, His army breathed nothing but vengeance and plunder: every thing gave way before it. If the military talents of the general had equalled the ardour of his troops the war had ended here. Unhappily for Almagro, he had lost his conductor, John de Errata. His inexperience made him fall into the snares that were laid for him by Pedro Alvarez, who had put himself at the head of the opposite party. He loll in attempting to un ravel their plots, that time that he ought to have em played in fighting. In there circumstances, an event which nobody could have foreseen, happened to change the face of affairs. THE licentiate Paca di Castro, who had been sent from Europe to try the murderers of old Almagro, ar rived at Peru. As he was to assume the government in case Pizarro was no more, all who had not sold them selves to the tyrant, hastened to acknowledge him. Uncertainty and jealousy, which had for too long a time kept them dispersed, were no longer an obstacle to their re-union. Cairo, who was as resolute as if he had grown grey under a helmet, did not sussex their im patience to languish, but instantly led them against the enemy. The two armies engaged at Chaps on the seth of September 1542, and fought with inexpressible obstinacy. Victory, after having wavered a long time, at the close of the day decided in favour of that party, whose cause was the most just. Those among the re bets, who were most obnoxious, dreading to languish under disgraceful tortures, provoked the conquerors to murder them, crying out like men in despair, It was I who killed Pizarro. Their chief was taken prisoner, and died on the scaffold.,WHILE
3 0 K. WHILE these scenes of horror were tranfaaing,.VL in America, the Spaniards in Europe were employed,in finding out expedients to terminate them; though no measures had been taken to prevent them. Peru had only been subjected to the court of Audience at Pa nama, which was too remote to superintend the main penance of good order, and had too little influence to make its decrees repeated. They established at Lis a supreme tribunal, for the dispensation of juice, which was to be invested with an authority sufficient to en force and to reward a due obedience to the laws. Blasco Nunez Vela, who presided in it as viceroy, arrived in r544, attended by his subordinates in office, and found every thing in the most dreadful disordered must judge of those revolutions which are pro duce by civil wars, by the causes from which they spring. When an abhorrence of tyranny and the na tural love of liberty stimulate a brave people to take up arms, if the goodness of their cause crowns them with viaory, the calm which succeeds this transitory cala misty, is an ara of the greatest happiness. The vigour, which hath been excited in the foul of every individual, manifest itself in his manners. A small number of citizens who have been witnesses and instruments of such troubles possess more moral strength than the most po, populous nations. Justice and power are united: and every man is astonished to find that he occupies that very place which nature had marked out for him. But when civil wars proceed from a corrupt source; when slaves fight about the choice of a tyrant, when the ambitious contend in order to oppress, and robbers quarrel for the fake of spoil, the peace which terminates these horrors, is scarcely preferable to the war which gave them birth. Criminals assume the place of those judges who disgraced them, and become the oracles of those laws, which they have insulted. Men ruined by their extra-vacancies
vacancies and debaucheries insult with an overbearing B o o K pomp those virtuous citizens, whose patrimony they vl. have invaded. In this slate of utter confusion, the pas sons only are heard. Avarice seeks to grow rich with put trouble, vengeance to gratify its resentments without fear, licentiousness to throw off every restraint, and discontent to occasion a total subversion of things. From the phrenzy of carnage they pals to that of debauchery. The sacred bed of innocence or of marriage is polluted with blood, adultery and brutal violence. The fury of the multitude amuses itself with destroying every thing it cannot enjoy; and thus in a few hours perish the mo moments of many centuries. IF fatigue, an intire lassitude, or some lucky accidents suspend these calamities, the habit of wickedness, murder, and contempt of laws, which necessarily sub its after so many storms, is a leaven ever ready to ser ment. Generals who no longer have any command, licentious soldiers without pay, and the people fond of novelty in hopes of a better condition; this situation of things, and there means of confusion, are always un der the management of the first various person who knows how to make use of them. SUCH was the disposition of the Spaniards in Peru, when Nunez appeared among them. It was necessary that a change should take place, that their ferocity hould be softened, that the men who had always lived in inde sentence Should be curbed, that insatiable avarice should be checked, that injustice itself should be brought back to the firs principles of equity, that those who had at tended to nothing but their own private interests should be brought to concur to the public good, that adventurers who had even forgotten the name of their country should be converted into citizens, that property should be established where before they had only obeyed the law of force, that order (hould arise from the midst of,confusion;
B o o K confusion; in a word, that monsters should be tranf-,VIL. formed into men.,So great a work would have required a profound ge nisus, a conciliatory temper, an inflexible patience, ex tensive views, a pliant character, and many other qua cities which are seldom united. Nunez had none of these endowments. Nature had only given him rectitude firmness, and ardour; and he had taken no pains to improve these gifts. With these virtues, which were alios defects in his situation, he began to fulfil his mission, without regard to places, persons, or circum. stances. ,contrary to the opinion of all sensible people, who wished that he should wait for new instructions from Europe, he published ordinances which declared that the lands which the conquerors had seized, should not pals to their dependents, and which dispossessed those who had taken part in the civil commotions. All. the Peru viands, who had been enslaved 4by monks, bishops, and members of government, were declared free. Those who belonged to other masters, were to be freed .from their shackles at the death of their oppressors. They could no longer be compelled to bury themselves in the mines, nor could any kind of labour be exalted from them without payment. Their tribute was fixed-the Spaniards who travelled on foot, were deprived of the right of taking three Indians to carry their baggage, and those who travelled on horseback, of the rights. taking five. The caciques were discharged from the obligation of furnishing the traveller and his retinue with provisions gratis. Other tyrannical establishments shortly too would have been proscribed, and the con queried people were on the eve of being sheltered under the protection of laws, which would at least have tempered the rigours of the right of conquer, if even they had not entirely repaired the injustice of,5 them;
them, bat it should seem that the Spanish government n o o K was only to be unhappy in the good it attempted to VI'. effet. A CHANGE so unexpected filled those with consternation who saw their fortunes wrested from them, or who lost the flattering hope of transmitting theirs to posterity Even those, who were not affected by this in teres, being accustomed to look upon the Indians as the instruments and victims of their avarice, had no conception that any other ideas could prevail concern ing them. From astonishment they proceeded to indignation murmuring, and sedition. The viceroy was de graded, put in irons, and banished to a dcfcrt island, 'till he could be conveyed to Spain; GONZALES PIZARRO was then returned from a ha various expedition, which had carried him as far as the river of the Amazons, and had employed him long enough to-prevent him from acting a part in those revolutions which hadst rapidly succeeded each other. The anarchy he found prevailing at his return, inspired him with the idea of seizing the supreme authority. His same and his forces made it impossible that this should be refused him i but his usurpation was marked with so many enormities, that Nunez was regretted. He was recalled from exile, and soon college a sufficient number of forces, to enable him to take the field. Civil commotions were then renewed with extreme fury on both parties. No quarter was asked or given on either side. The Indians took part in this, as they had done in the preceding wars, some ranged themselves under the standard of the viceroys others under the banners of. Gonzales. From fifteen to twenty thousand of these unhappy wretches who were Scattered about in each army dragged up the artillery; levelled the roads, carried the baggage, and destroyed one another. Their conquerors had taught them to be sanguinary. After a Vot. IL T variety
t o o v variety of advantages for a long time alternately eb- j, tamed, fortune at length favoured the rebellion underside walls of Quito in the month of January, in the year 1545.- Nunez, and the greatest part of his men, were massacred on this dreadful day. PIAnRRO took the road of Lima, where they were de liberating on the ceremonies with which they should re clive him. Some officers wished that a canopy should be carried for him to march under, after the manner of kings. Others, with adulation still more extravagant, pretended'that part of the walls of the town, and even some houses muff be pulled down, as was the custom at Rome, when a general obtained the honours of a tri. umph. Gonzales contented himself with making his entrance on horseback, preceded by his lieutenant who marched on foot. Four bishops accompanied him, and he was followed by the magistrates. The streets were strewn with flowers, and the air resounded with the noise of bells and various musical instruments. This homage totally turned the head of a man naturally haughty, and of confined ideas. He spoke and acted in the most de fpotic manner. HAD Gonzales possessed judgment and the appearance of moderation, it would have been possible-for him to have rendered himself independent. The principal per sons of his party wished it. The rnajoriy '*ouldi'have beheld this event with indifference-and the 'ft;7 oiled have been obliged to consent tobit-Bliuit'idlties; in satiate avarice, and unbounded psiliei adIered'qhes dispositions Even those, whose iniferetfc miser ore do necr~e with those of the tyrati, wifd-edorioa'r 'Biverll.,SrUCa deliverer arrived froid Et~eiitli.-peirfon of the Licentiate Pedro de laGaa. Tne:fqtiMbi, and the provinces of the mountains irmeidiaielj declared for *a person who was inveedte *itl:-a. lawfsul'a~thority to-govern them. hose vwho-iied ; eoneeald-:in;idlefests,- ' caverns,
taverns arid forest, quitted their retreats to join him. B o o R Gonzales who saw no resource left to support him but in fine great achievement, took the road ds Cusco, with a resolution to give battle. At some leagues distance from this place, he met the royal army, and at, tacked it on the gth of June 1548; One of his lieu tenants seeing him abandoned at the firs charge by his best soldiers, advised him to throw himself into the energy's battalions, and perish like a Roman: but this Weak man chafe rather to surrender, and end his life on a scaffold. Carvajal, a more able warrior, arid more ferocious than himself, was quartered. This madman when he was dying, made his boast that he had mass facred'with his own hand fourteen hundred Spaniards and twenty thousand Indians. 'SUCH was the last scene of a tragedy, of which every aft had been marked with blood. The government was moderate enough not to continue the proscriptions; aid the remembrance of the horrid calamities they had suffered, kept the Spaniards in the bounds of subjection. That till remained of that commotion that had been railed in their minds, insensibly sank into a calm, like tie'agitation of waves after a long and furious ternpelt. I tiH, regard to the Peruvians they took the most cruel rncafures to render it impossible for them to fur. Pupa, nmartu, the heir of their last king, had taken refuge l some remote mountains where he lived in peace. Ther e was so closely surrounded by the troops, Which. had been lent out against him, that he was ,forced to surrender. The viceroy Francis de To led caused him to be accused of several crimes that he had not committed, and for which he was beheaded in inst. All the other descendents of the Incas shared the same fate, under pretence that they had conspired against their conquerors. The horror of these enor-,T 2 cities
o o K cities excited so universal an indignation both in they!. - old nd the new world, that Philip the second thought,himrelf obliged to disavow them; but the infamous po lucy of this prince was so notorious, that nobody gave credit to this appearance of his justice and humanity from this execrable era, there hath only been one trifling insurrection in Peru. An Indian, of the pro vince of Xauxa, who declared himself of the blood of the Incas, was proclaimed king in 1742. His countrymen, who flattered themselves that they should soon recover their religion, their laws, their lands, and their glory, flocked in crowds to his standard : but they were beaten and dispersed, after having made a confiderable progress. The prisoners declared that titus conspiracy had been brooding for thirty years. A singular example in his tory, and which may be regarded as the most authentic proof of the hatred of the Peruvians against the Spa niardc. : THE Cepire of Peru, at the time it was subdued, ex i~ ' . ' tended :ion: the South Sea, from the river of Emeralds,to Chili, rszJ on the lard side to Popayan, according to foire-biographers. It contained within its extent that si rmIcu: chain of mountains which rises in the Terra Ma gellanica, and is gradually lost in Mexico, in order to unite, as it should seem, the southern parts of America with the nether. Its territory, which is very irregular mvav be divided into three classes. THE principal Cordilleras form the first: the fum its of these, says MI. de la Mandarine, are lost in the clouds, and almost all of them are covered with enor- rrmou mafics of fno.v as old as the world. From several of these straits which have in part tumbled down, and-rom there immense heaps of snow, torrents of sto .lk and far.e'ftill iiue. Such arc the summits of Co!opaxi, Ton6ourargua, and Santa. The greatest par of the reft have formerly been volcanos, or wil!,,probably,
probably, one day become such. History has only pre B o o K served to us the rara of their eruptions, since the disco vl. very of America; but the pumice stones, the calcined earths with which they are strewn, and the evident vestiges that the flame hath left, arc authentic testimonies of the reality of former eruptions : their height is prodigious 'Tambour, which is situated directly under the equator, and Antimony, which is only five leagues distant from it to the south, are more than three thousand toiles high, reckoning from the level of the sea ; and Chime boraco, which is near 3220 toises high, surpasses by one third the altitude of the Peak of TeneriRfe, the highest mountain of the old hemisphere. Pitching and Ca bacon, where the French Academicians made moi of their observations with regard to the figure of the earth, have only 2430 and 2470 toises of .absolute height; and this is the highest mountain that was ever defended. Eternal snows have hitherto rendered summits of greater altitude inaccessible, . Fro this boundary, v.'whch is where the snow never melts not even in the torrid zone, one hardly lees, in descending an hundred or an hundred and fifty tolls down, any thing except naked rocks or dry sands: a little lower, one may perceive some moss that covers the rocls-,various kinds of hc;:th, which though green and damp, make a clear fire; round hillocks of fpu.lgy earth, on which grow small radiated and starry plants, whose petals are. like the leaves of yew. Throughout the whole of this space, the show is only temporary, but it continues sometimes whole weeks and months. Lower fill, the ground is commonly covered with a fort of Icofe agra's, which rises a foot and half high or two feet. This species of hay, is the proper characteristic that distinguishes the mountains which the Spaniards call Pa rains. They only give this name t heath or such un-,T 3 cultivated
I o K cultivated ground that is too high for wood to grow o0,v.- it, or where the rain seldom falls otherwise than in thetford of new, though it immediately melts. In a words in descending still lower, to the height of about twq thousand toises above the level of the sea, one fees it sometimes snow and sometimes rain when we come down from these mountains, we find others that are less considerable, which occupy the middle of Peru. The summit of these is commonly cold, barren, and full of mines. The allies between them are covered with numerous flocks, and seem to offer to agriculture the most copious harvests. There are seldom above two months of winter here; and in the greatest heat, we need only pass out of the fun into the shade to enjoy the temperate zone. This rapid alterna. time of sensation, is not, however, invariable in a climate, which by the disposition alone of the ground, often changes in the course of a league. But let it be as it will, it is. always found healthy. There is no ma lady peculiar to there countries, and those of our chi, mate seldom prevail there. An European vessel, how ever, in 17 9 brought thither an epidemic disorder, which carried off a great number of Spaniards and Meshes, and above two hundred thousand Indians. A, more fatal present fill which there people have received in ex, change for their gold, is the small-pox. It (hewed it. self here for the sirs time in i588, and has notified Juice to make at intervals inexpressible ravages they are not less exposed to this dire £courge on the coasts known by the name of valleys. Their temperature is not the same, as is elsewhere found in the same lath. rude. It is very agreeable; and though the four seasons of the year are sensibly felt here, there is none that can with propriety be deemed inconvenient. The winter is the most strongly marked. This has been accounted for by the winds of the south pole, which bring along with,them
them the impression of those snows and that ice, from B o O K-. which they firs came: but this they preserve only in "' part, because they blow while a thick fog lies upon the earth. In reality, there gross vapours never regularly rise but towards noon, but it is seldom that they disperse The icy commonly continues covered with them to that degree, that the rays, of the fun which some times appear, cannot but in a very flight manner mitigate the cold. WHATEVER may be the cause of so regular a winter under the torrid one, it is certain that there valleys which are covered with heaps of sand, are absolutely barren for a space of more than an hundred leagues, from Truxillo to Lima. The rest of the coast is less sandy, but it is fill too much so to be fruitful. No fields are there found that can be styled fertile, except in such lands as are watered by. the streams which de. feed from the mountains. RAIN might contribute to impart to the soil the fertility of which it is destitute, but it is never known to rain in lower Peru. Natural philosophy has exerted her efforts to discover the cause of a phenomenon so extraordinary. May it not be attributed to the south weft wind which prevails there the greatest part of the year, and to the prodigious height of the mountains, whose summit is covered with eternal ice ? The country situated between both, being continually cooled on one side and continually heated on the other, maintains so equal a temperature, that the clouds which rise, can never be condensed so far as to be resolved into actual water, To this it is owing, that the houses though only built of crude brick or of earth mixed with a little grass, are of eternal duration. Their covering is only a simple matting, placed horizontally with a layer of aches an inch deep above, to absorb the moisture of the fog.,T Q-Te
Bo-b K, THE same reasons, that prevent its raining in the,vh, valleys, undoubtedly also hinder terms. Those of their,inhabitrnts, who never travelled in the mountains, are perfect strangers t. thunder and lightening. Their terror is ecqu l to their astonishment, when out of their country, they first behold so uncommon a fpefacle.,BlT they have a phenomenon nmch more dangerous and dreadful, and which in its consequences leaves much deeper impressions in the human imagination than thun der and the ravages that accompany it. Earthquakes, which in other countries are so rare, that whole genera tions pass without beholding one, are so common in the valleys of Peru, that they have there contrived an habit cf reckoning them as a series of dates, which are so much the more memorable, as their frequent return does not diminish their violence. There are few places on this extensive coals, which present not most dreadful monuments of these horrible convulsions' of the earth this phenomenon, which is ever irregular in its unexpected returns, is however announced by vespers reptile omens. When it will prose considerable, it 'is preceded by a murmur in the air, the noifeof'which'is like that of heavy rain which falls from a cloud that suddenly bursts and discharges its waters. 'his fioife seems to be the effect of a vibration of-the air-which is agitated in different directions. The birds are then observed to dart in their flight. Neither their tail nor their wings serve them any longer as oars and helm-to swim in the fluid of the skies. They daflh:hemfelves in pieces against the walls, the trees, and the rocks, whether it be that this vertigo of nature dazzles and con sires them, or that the vapours of the earth take away their strength and power to command their movement sto this tumult in the air is added the rumbling of the earth, whose cavities and deep recesses, re-echo each others noises. The dogs answer thcfeprevious tokens of general
general disorder of nature by howling in an extraordi- B o o K, nary manner. The animals flop, and by a natural in . . gina spread opt their legs asunder that they may not fall, Upon there indications, men instantly run out of their houses, with terror impressed on their countenances, and fly to search in the enclosures of public places, or in the fields, an asylum from the fall of their roofs. The cries of children, the lamentations of women, the hidden darkness of an unexpected night; every thing combines to aggravate the too real evils of a dire cala misty which subverts every thing, with the excruciating tortures of the imagination, which is distressed and con founded, and loses in the contemplation of this disorder, the thought and courage to remedy it. A LAND, however, so unsteady on its basis, was in habited. Amidst there horrors of nature, which might Seem calculated to make tyrants and slaves equally ferocious and brutal, was formed a flourishing empire. Its population cannot reasonably be called in question, when we behold self-evident proofs that this happy people had covered with their colonies all the provinces that they had conquered ; when we attend to the astonishing num ber-of men employed in the government, and deriving their subsistence from the state. Such a number osiers sons ,employed, necessarily imply an immense population in. order to maintain with the productions of the carth,,a very numerous class of inhabitants, who are not themselves concerned in cultivation. BY,,what. fatality. then hath it happened that Peru-is now such a desert a By ascending to the origin of things we find that those who conquered the coalts.of the South Sea, being ruffians without birth, education, and principle, originally committed greater enormities than the conquerors of New Spain. The metropolis was a longer time in checking their ferocity, which was con finally fomented by those long and cruel civil wars,,that
B O O K that succeeded the conquest. A system of oppreflion,cV1. was afterwards established, the progress of which it improper to examine, with whatever horror it may inspire us. 7o .hat Tht Peruvians were first of all stripped of their pos c'n!rirn sessions, as the Mexicans had been. They left them t-ce ia-,n - only in common a part of those lands, which, in the times of the Incas, had been consecrated to public occasions This portion hath been gradually diminished by the usurpations of powerful people, especially by the monks. The produce of the lands that remain for the mainte dance of the infirm, the aged, the widows, and orphans, is not more repeated ; the greatest part of it is collected in the granaries of their oppressors the liberty of the Indians underwent the same fate as their property. Those who were the saves of go government, and were employed in the labours indispensably necessary for new establishments, were ill fed and ill cloathed. When there was no longer any occupation far them, they were transferred to private persons, whose fiefs food in need of hands to cultivate them. In truth, these new masters were obliged to retain them in their service only fix months, after which they might return to their cottages; but avarice soon found means to render a transient servitude perpetual. The wages regulated for these unhappy wretches, was insufficient to detain them. They tempted them by advance money, which their necessity led them to accept. From that moment the greatest part of them found themselves engaged for life; because they had no right of go ing away 'till they had paid the debts which they had contracted, which their poverty rendered it impossible for them ever to do. Tyranny was carried to greater lengths against this species of insolvent debtors, who had a family; for they put them in prison. In order to their enlargement, their wives and their children
drew were bound for them, and these became as many B o o K new slaves. Thus it was that the yoke of slavery was ,VIt perpetuated. The sole consideration that could laye served as a check to this barbarity, was, that whilst they had there Indians, they could not have other slaves; hut it was always of singular utility to keep men when they had formed according to their several occasions; especially manufacturers, whom it would always be difficult often impossible to replace. WHILST most of the Peruvians belonging to the grown, sell in this manner into a state of servitude, thole who. had been reduced into subjection at the time of the conquest, were still more wretched. Though the master of the istria where they dwelt, had no right to exact of them any thing except a tribute which he shared with the treasury, he appropriated to himself all their labour. Tyranny was pushed to that height, that it rouzed the attention of the government. It hath gradually suppressed all this despotism of individuals, and there was nothing of it remaining in 1750. The In diana however, who learned to be restored to liberty by this new. arrangement, have only changed the yoke. They have been destined to fill up the vacancy of the Mitsyos or royal Indians, who perished in the service of those to whom they were consigned, and their condition is as wretched as it was before. INDEPENDENT of this methodical and legal oppression which is exercised upon the whole nation, there are a thousand particular cruelties at which humanity no less recoils. It is expressly prohibited by law, that they Ill oblige the peruvians to work in the subterraneous mines, and there is no miner, who by his influence, or by his profusion, cannot compel them to it. These un happy beings are condemned to pay 26 livres 5 fous c of a poll tax from eighteen years of age to fifty, through put the greatest part of Peru: the farmers exact this,c About . 3 s.,enormous
B oO K enormous tribute beyond the term fettled, and even,IL exact it twice a year, when the acquittance have,ben. displayed. Every proprietor of land who hath killed an Indian by overworking him, or letting him want necessaries, is obliged to lose another slave out of the number he is allowed to keep; and there are not, perhaps, two instances of this flight punishment for a crime which is repeated every day. The law obliges them to take all the inhabitants of a village to be enrolled, in order to fulfill the obligation imposed on the community: this destination is never fulfilled, but only by those who are incapable of redeeming themselves from the oppression. When a Spaniard hath ceded a portion of land to a Peruvian in order to fix him on his cizate, he has no right to deprive him of it 'till the clauses of the contract have been declared by law to be violated: the persons in power despise these forms, and resume their possessions whenever their intercessor ca prices prompt them to it. Travellers who are obliged to take nothing but by mutual content, boldly seize cheery thing that they find in their huts. This continual pillage prevents the Indians from having any thing, even common necessaries. They sow no maize, butwhat is absolutely necessary for them, and they conceal it in secret caverns The heads of a family pofiefsalone the secret of this deposit, and go every eight days there to fetch provisions for the week. In fine, the corregidor have for the most part appropriated to themselves the exclusive right of selling to the Indians of their district the merchandize of Europe, they either make them pay an exorbitant price for it, or oblige them to purchase what they have no occasion for themselves.,IF the court of Madrid pretends that they have prevented there flagrant enormities by giving the Peruvians a Spanish protector, who is obliged to defend them, and a cacique of the country who is charged with the ma n%.ec;nt of their affairs, it is deceived. The protector,annuall
annually receives from each of them 13 fous d; and the B d O O cacique fix fous and a half', in his particular juridical tion: and this is the only reformation that has been made. The protector fells the Indians to any that will purchase them, and the cacique is too much debased to be able to oppose this oppression. RELIGION has not more power than the laws; it has still less. The clergy are the greater enemies the Peruvians have. They make them work without paying them and beat them unmercifully for the nioft trifling causes. When any one of these unhappy wretches is deficient with regard to his instructions, he is directly punished ; and the strokes of a cudgel are the paternal correction which these pastors inflict. No one presumes to approach them without some present. They have per mitted their parishioners to continue such of their antient superstitions as are useful to the church, as, for instance, the custom of carrying a great deal of provisions to the tombs of the dead. The clergy fix an arbitrary price to their functions, and they have always some pious inventions which give them occasion to exam new duties. The collections of the monks are real military executions It is a species of plunder committed by au authority, almoi always accompanied with violence. This conduct could not fail to render christianity odious to the Indians. These people go to church as they do to the labours imposed upon them, execrating those foreign barbarians who overwhelm both their bodies and their fouls with intolerable yokes and burdens. . THEY have in general preserved the religion of their ancestors; and even in the great towns, where they are not under the eyes of their tyrants, they have solemn days on which, they assume their antient dress, and carry along the streets the images of the fun and moon. Some,d About 7 pence. e About 3 pence halfpenny.,among
B1 o o among them represent a tragedy, the subject of which is,' the death of Atabalipa. The audience who begin withstanding tears, are afterwards transported into a kind of madness. It seldom happens in these festivals, but that some Spaniard is sain. One day, perhaps, this tragedy will end in the massacre of the whole race of the mur deters of Alabalipa; and the priests who sacrificed him; will in their turn become victims for all the blood which they caused to be shed on the altar of a God of peace the Peruvians are moreover an instance of that pro found Stupidity, into which it is in the power of ty; fanny to plunge men. They are fallen into a isles? and universal indifference. What should this people now be fond of, whose religion once elevated the foul, and from whom the mot abject slavery has taken away every sentiment of greatness and glory? The riches; which their country hath offered them, do riot tempt them; luxury, to which nature invites them, has no at traction for them. They are even insensible to honour; They are whatever one pleases, without any ils humonr,or choice, caciques or mi;taos, the object of distinction or of public derision. They have lost all their passions. That of fear itself has often no effie on them through the little attachment they have to life. They intoxicate themselves, and dance; these are all the pleasures they have, when they are able to forget their misery. In silence is their predominant habit. I am net hungry, they say to the person who would pay them for their labour.,THrs is the condition of almost all nations that have no property. In hot countries, where they live at a small expeie, where the earth gives much, and requires little, every man, who can but fubfiR without ever being in possession of any property, passes his life in ease and beggary; and neither labours for the morrow, nor for posterity. The universal fault of bad governments,,and
and they are almost all to, is in the legislative code with B 0o K regard to the article of property. It Should either be . l' said that none ought to be admitted, or the greatest pos. bible equilibrium ought to be maintained in this facial balance. But of all legislation, the most dctruaive and the haft permanent is that of a nation composed of rich, and indolent proprietors, and Haves that are poor, and overburdened. It soon becomes only one general system of idleness: cruelties, gibbets, and tortures on one side; hatred, poison, and insurrection on the other; the ruin and destruction of both; the perdition and dissolution of society. THAT of Peru was reduced to such a state of depopulation as rendered it necessary that it should be supplied by the purchase of a foreign race; but this mode of raising supplies, which was dictated by the refinement of European barbarity, was more prejudicial to Africa than useful to the country of the Incas. They do not de rive from it all the advantages with which they bad flat tered themselves. The government hath thought proper to throw obstacles in its way by monopolies and taxes which it ever imports on vices as well as on virtues, on industry and idleness, on good and bad project, on the tight of exercising oppressions, and the permission of being'exempted from them, on the power of putting the law :in execution, and the privilege of infringing or eluding thin. Independent of these excessive duties laid'hn :the'intrioduaion of negroes into Peru, it was nieceffai to receive them from an exclusive charter, and from foreign hands to import them across immense seas, and' uinwhdleefeome climates, and to undergo the ex peice of several embarkations and disembarkations. Necessity, strong than there obstacles, has however multiplied this species of men more at Peru than at Mexico. There is also a much greater number of Spa niards there, for the following reafqns.,7 AT
B O O K AT the time when the first conquests were made,, when emigrations were most frequent, the country of To whet the Incas had a much greater reputation for riches than dsa bird; New Spain, and in reality for a long time much greater,r-,mua:i- treasures were brought away from it. The desire of p:icd in Peru v., partaking of them mus necessarily draw thither, as was ne ho,- really the case, a greater number of Castilians. Though fo.m.edr tr they all almost went over there, with the hope of return f'"y' ing to their country to enjoy the fortune they might ac c dcsfcl- quire, yet the majority of them fettled in the colony. ,,q.'t-they were induced to this by the softness of the climates the salubrity of the air, and the goodness of the profit 's . ; '. '- in;ro'u.:d sins. Mexico presented not the free advantages, and,did not give them reason to expect so much independence as a country infinitely more remote from the metro polis.,Cusco attracted the conquerors in multitudes. They found this capital built on ground that was very irregular and divided into as many quarters as there were provinces in the empire. Each of the inhabitants might follow the usages of his native country ; but every bod; was obliged to conform to the worship established by the founder of the monarchy. There was no edifice that h:d any grandeur, elegance, or commodiousness; be cause the people were ignorant of the frt elements cf architecture. The magnificence of what they called the palace of the sovereign, of the princes of the blood, and of the great men of his empire, consisted in the profusion of the metals that were lavished on decorating them. The temple of the fun was distinguished above all other edifices; its walls were incrusted or sheathed with gold and silver, ornamented with divers figures, and loaded with the idols of all the nations whom the Incas had enlightened and subdued profligate and idle monks have prostituted these rich metals to other superstitions; substituted to the,useful
useful prejudices of the climate others of a moredeftruc- B ' o i time kind, arid expelled the natural errors, suited to-the turn of the inhabitants, by foreign tenets, highly ab surd in themselves, as well as repugnant to the human mind and to every social tie. The same fatality which subverts the universe, the ocean, the land, empires 'and nations; which alternately diffuses on the globe the il rumination of the arts, and the darkness of ignorance; which transplants men and opinions, as the winds arid currents drive fish and sea weeds on the shore: this same destiny has decreed that a set of proud monks, enervated at once'by indolence and voluptuousness, should insolently indulge themselves in ease upon the ashes of the virtuous Incas, in the center of an empire formerly so blessed under there legislators. This deplorable revolution does not hinder the Peruvians, who in general have the greatest aversion for living in cities, because inhabited by Spaniards, from voluntarily chusing to reside at Cusco. They still love to behold that venerable place from which those holy laws originated, which rendered their ancestors so happy. The remembrance of this inspires them with elevation of foul; and they are found to be less Cupid on this celebrated spot, than in other parts of iheiti empire. ' cr' "s- hill, north of the capitals was a citadel, which the Incas had built with much care, time, la your, and expence. The Spaniards long spoke of this monument of Peruvian industry with a spirit of admiration that astonished all Europe. We have seen the ruins of this fortress, and the marvellous has disappeared nothing has remained but the astonishment, which must neceffarilyr'be occasioned by the fight of he enormous masses of'ftbne, which have been brought rom a considerable distance, without the aflilftnce- of every and other machines: that are known to more en lightened nations. ' * ' ' .' VOL. II. U FOUR
o o K FOUR leagues from this fortress we meet with a deli v, , pious valley, where the Incas and the great men of the empire had their country houses. This enchanting re treat so well preserves its reputation, that the richest in habitants of Cusco believe, that there is. something de ancient in their system of happiness when they cannot purchase a piece of ground there. The sick ordinarily repair thither in search of health, and it rarely happens but they find it. As it was not a solicitude for their own preservation which occupied the Spaniards at fir, they hed no (sooner pillaged the immense riches which had been amassed at Cusco for four centuries, than they went in great num boers in 1534, under the orders of Sebastian deBenalcazar, to undertake the destruction of Quito. The other towns and boroughs of the empire were overrun with the same spirit of rapine; and the citizens and the temples were plundered in all parts those of the conquerors who did not.take up their residence in the settlements which they found formed to their hands, built towns on the sea coasts, where before there were none; for the sterility of trefoil had not permitted the Peruvians to multiply much there; and they had not been engaged to remove thither, from the extremity of their country, for they failed veryqlittle. Paita, Truxillo, Callao, Pica, and. Pica: writhe roads, which the Spaniards deemed most conveniently the communication they intended to eftablih:,amuong themselves and with the metropolis :. The different positions of there new cities determined the degree of their prosperity . . :those which were afterwards built in the inland parts of the country, were not erected in regions which presented a fertile soil, copious harvests, excellent pas turns, a mild and salubrious climate, and all the conveniences of life. Those places which had hitherto been, . . fT
so well cultivated by a numerous and flourishing people, B o O K where now totally disregarded. Very soon they exhibited only a deplorable picture of a horrid deist, arid this wildness must have been more melancholy and hi deus than th dreary aspect of the earth before' the origin of societies. The traveller, who was led by ac widest or curiosity into these desolated plains, could not forbear abhorring the barbarous and bloody 'authors of there devastations, while he reflected that it'was riot owing even to the cruel illusions of glory and to the fanaticism of conquest; but to the stupid and abje&'de- fire of gold that they had sacrificed so much more real treasure, and so numerous a population. This insatiable thirst of gold which neither attended to subsidence, safety; 'nor policy, was the only motive for establishing new settlements, some of which have been kept up, while several have gone to ruin, and others have been formed in their stead. The fate of them all has corresponded with the discovery, progress, or de clenfion'of the mines to which they were Subordinate. FEwER errors have been committed in the means of procuring provisions. The natives had hitherto lived hardly ou any thing else but maize, fruits and pulse, for which they had used no other seasoning except salt and''pimento. Their liquors, which were made from different roots, were more diversified; of these the think was the-mofiufual; which was made from maize soaked in water, and. taken out of the vessel when it begins to fprutw.e It is dried in the fun, then parched a little, :and,at Jas ground. The flour after it has been well kneaded, is put with water into large pitchers. The fermentation may be.expeted in two or three days, and nlulfnot continue longer. The great inconvenience of this drink, which, when used immoderately, infallibly inebriates, is, that it will not keep more than eight days without turning four. Its taste is nearly that of the .worse kind of cyder. It is a refreshing, nourishing, and,U 2 operative
B o0 K operative liquor. The Indians who are never troubled with suppressions of urine, are said to owe this advantage tb the use of this drink the conquerors were not satisfied either with the li quos or with the food of the people they had sub duet. They imported vines from the old world, which soon multiplied to that degree in the sands of the.coafls at Ica, Pica, Nafca, Moquequa, and Trux- illo, as to furnish the colony with the wine and brandy they wanted. Olives succeeded still better, and yielded a great abundance of oil, which was much superior to that of the metropolis. Other fruits were transplanted with the same success. Sugar succeeds' so well that none of any other growth can be compared to this which is cultivated in these parts where it never rails. In the inland country wheat and barley were sown i and at length all the European quadrupeds were soon found grazing at the foot of the mountains. THIS was a considerable sep, but there still remained much more to be done. After they had provided for a better and a greater choice of subsistence, the next care of the Spaniards ws to have a dress more commodious and more agreeable than that of the Peruvians. There were, however, better clothed than any other American nation. They owed this superiority to the advantage which they alone possessed of having the lama and the paces, domestic animals which served them for this use. THE lama is an animal four feet high, and five or fix in length; of which its neck alone takes up one half. Its head is well made, with large eyes, a long snout, and thick lips. Its mouth has no incisors in the upper jaw. Its feet are cloven like those of the ox, but fur wished with a spur behind, which enables it to safe it self on the sides of Deep places, where it delights to climb. its wool which is short on its back, but grows long. on its sides and under the belly, constitutes part sits
its usefulness. Though very salacious, they copulate -B o o K with great difficulty. In vain the female profligates her v, . self to receive the male, and invites him by her sighs; they are sometimes a whole day groaning, grumbling, and ineffectually attempting enjoyment, if men do not help them to fulfil the desire of nature. Thus several of our domestic animals, that are chained, broken, forced, and refrained in all their freest motions and sensations, lose through ineffectual efforts the principles of gene ration while they are confined in stables, if care and attention does not supply the place of that li betty, of which they have been deprived. The fe males of the lama have only two breasts, never more than two young, commonly but one, which follows the dam immediately after its birth; it is of a very quick growth, and its life of short duration. At three years old it propagates its species, preserves its vigour till twelve, then decays till it reaches fifteen, being em played in drudgery, THEY employ the lamas, as mules, in carrying on their backs loads of about an hundred weight. They move with a flow but firm pace at the rate of four or five leagues a day, in countries that are impracticable to other animals; descending through gullies and climb ing up rocks, where men cannot follow them. After four or five days journey, they rest of their own accord for twenty-four hours, NATURE has formed them for the people of that climate where they are produced, mild and phlegmatic, moderate and prudent, like the Americans. When they flop, they bend their knees and stoop their body in such a manner as not to discompose their burthen. As soon as they hear their driver whittle, they rise with the same care, and proceed on their journey. They browse on the grass they find in their way, and chew the cud at p!ght, even when asleep, reclining on their breast, withal 3 their
1 o o K their feet doubled under their belly. They are neither WVU dispirited by parting nor drudgery, whilst they have any strength remaining; but when they are totally exhausted or fall under their burden, it is to no purpose to harass and beat them: they will continue obstinately striking their heads against the ground, first on one side, then on the other, till they kill themselves. They never defend themselves either with their feet or teeth; and in the height of their indignation, content themselves with only spitting in the face of those who insult them the paces is to the lama what the ass is to the horse, a subordinate species, smaller in fia, with shorter legs, and a flat snout; but of the same disposition, the same manners and the same constitution as the lama; made like the lama, to carry burthens, and more obstinate in its caprices, perhaps, because it is weaker. THESE animals are so much the more useful to man, as their service costs him nothing. Their thick fury supplies the place of a pack saddle. The little grass, which they find along the road, suffices for their food, and furnishes them with a plentiful and fresh saliva, which exempts them from the necessity of drinking. AMONG the lamas, there are some of a wild .species called guanacos, which are stronger, more sprightly, and more nimble than the domestic lamas; running like the flag and climbing like the wild goat, covered with short wool, and of a fawn colour. Though free, they like to collect in herds to the number sometimes of two or three hundred. If they see a man, they survey him at first with an air of greater astonishment than curiosity. Then snuffing up the air and neighing, they run all to gather to the summit of the mountains. These animals seek the north, travel on the ice, and sojourn within the regions of snow, dreading the heat of the low lands;,they
they are vigorous, and appear in vast numbers on the B 0 o K Sierras, which are of the same height as the Cordeleras; VII small in size, and difficult to be found in the heaths, which are at the bottom of the mountains. When they are hunted for their fleece, if they gain the rocks, neither hunters nor dogs can ever catch them. TIE vicunas, a species of wild paces, are still fonder of the summits of mountains, the snow and the ice. Their wool is longer, thicker set, and much finer than that of the guanacos. Its colour resembles that of dried roses, and so fixed by nature, that it cannot be altered in the hands of those who are employed in working it. The vicunrasaare so timid, that their fear itself makes them an easy prey to the hunter. Men surround them and drive them into narrow defiles, at the end of which they have suspended pieces of cloath or linen on cords, that are raised three or four feet from the ground. These rags being agitated by the wind, strike such terror into them, that they stand crowded and squeezed one against another, suffering themselves to be killed rather than fly. Birth if there happens to be among the vicunas, a guano which being more adventurous leaps over the cords, they follow it and escape. ALL these animals belong so peculiarly to South America and especially to the highest Cordeleras, that they are never seen on the side of Mexico, where the height of'thefe mountains is considerably diminished. At tempts have been made to propagate the breed in Europe, btt, they have'all died. The Spaniards, without re fleeting, that there animals even in Peru itself fought the coldest parrs, transported them to the burning plains of Andalusia. They might, possibly, have succeeded at the foot of the Alps or the Pyrenees. This conjecture of Mi de Buffon, to whom we are indebted for so many ifcful and profound observations on animals, is worthy 4 the
B o O K the attention of statesmen, whose steps ought always to,. be guided by the lights of philosophy the flesh of the lamas, when they are young is good eating. The skin of the old ones serves the Indians for £hoes, and the Spaniards for harnesS. The guanacos may also be eaten; but the vicunas are only fought after for their fleece, and for the bezoar that they pro duce. IN general, the wool of the lamas, paces, guanacos, and vicunas was usefully employed by the Peruvians, be fore the conquest. The inhabitants of Cusco made tapestry of it for the use of the court, in which flowers, birds and trees were pretty well imitated. It served also to make mantles, which were worn over a shirt of cotton. They tuck them up in order to have their arms free. The principal people fastened them with gold and silver clasps, their wives with pins made of there metals, or lamented with emeralds, and the common people with thorns. In hot countries, the mantles of persons of distinction were made of cotton of considerable firm ness, and dyed with various colours. The common people, in the same climate, had no cloathing at all ex kept a girdle that was composed of the filaments of the bark of a tree, and served to cover those parts nature in tended should be concealed. AFTER the conquest all the Indians were obliged to wear cloaths. As the oppression under which they groaned, did not allow them to exercise their former in dusty, they took up with the coarser cloths of Europe, for which they were made to pay ar. exorbitant price. When the gold and silver which had escaped the rapacity of the conquerors were exhausted, they thought of re-establishing their national manufactures. These were some time after prohibited, on account of the deficiency which they occasioned in the exports of the me metropolis. The impossibility, which the Peruvians founds
of-purchasing foreign stuffs and paying their taxes, oc B o o K cautioned permission to be given at the end of ten years v1. for their re-establishment. They have not been discontinued since that time, and have been brought to as great perfection as it was possible they could be un der a continual tyranny. WITH the wool of the vicuna they make, at Cusco and in its territory, stockings, handkerchiefs, and scarfs. These manufacturers would have been multiplied, if the spirit of destruction had not fallen on the animals as well as on the men. The same wool mixed with that of the sheep imported hither from Europe, which hath exceedingly degenerated, serves for carpets, and makes also tolerably fine cloth. Fleeces of inferior qua city are employed in serges, drugget, and in all kinds of coarse stuffs. THE manufactures that ferre to luxury are established at Arequipa, Cusco and Lima. In there three towns they make a prodigious number of gold toys and plate for the use of private persons, and also for the churches. All there manufactures are but coarsely wrought, and mixed with a great deal of copper. We seldom discover more taste in their laces and embroideries which their manufactures also produce. This is not altogether the case in regard to their lace, which when mixed with European, looks very beautiful. These different works are commonly in the hands of the nuns, who employ the Peruvian girls, and the young Esteem of the towns, who for the most part before marriage pass some years in the convent. OTHER hands are employed in painting and gilding leather for rooms, in making with wood and ivory pieces of inlaid work and sculptures and in drawing figures on the marble that is found at Cuenca, or on linen im ported from Europe. These different works, which are almost all manufactured at Cusco, serve for or-ornaments
B.OSO K laments to houses, palaces, and temples, the draw.,v, . ing of them is not bad, but the colours are neither exact nor permanent. If the Indians, who in. vent nothing, but are excellent imitators, had able masters, and excellent models, they would at least make good copyists. At the close of the last century, they brought to Rome fonte of the works of a Peruvian painter, named Michael de St. Jacques, in which the connoisseurs discovered marks of genius these particulars will interest such of our readers, whom we Shall have inspired with affection for one of the best nations that ever existed, and with eftetn for one of the most excellent institutions that ever did hon our to mankind. Those who are strangers to that uni vecfal benevolence which extends to all nations and all-res, will have experienced other sentiments. - Ac customer to behold nothing in Peru but the produce of its mines, they muff consequently regard with con. tempt every thing that has not a direct relation with their avarice. This would diminish, perhaps be totally suspended, if they were but disposed. frequently to re volve by what barbarians enormities it has-been gratified. of the THOUGH the Peruvians were unacquainted' with coin, prof they knew the use of gold and silver; for they eiiployed,them in different kinds of ornaments., Independent of what the torrents and accident procured them of there metals, rome mines had been opened of little depth, which were not far below the surface. of the. earth. The Spaniards have not transmitted to us-the manner, in which there rich productions were drawn from the bosom of the earth. Their pride, which has deprived us of so much useful knowledge, undoubtedly made them think, that in the inventions of a people whom they called bar barons, there was nothing that was worthy to be re corded.,THIS
THIS difference as to the manner in which the Peru 5 o o R rians worked their mines, did not extend to the mines VII. themselves. The conquerors opened them on all sides. At first the gold mines tempted the avarice of the greater number. Fatal experience discouraged those whom patient had not blinded. They clearly saws that for some enormous fortunes raised in this manner, great numbers who had only moderate fortunes were to tally ruined. These mines sank into such discredits that in order to prevent them from being abandoned, the government was obliged to take the twentieth-part of their produce, instead of the fifth which it at first received, ' THE mines of silver were more common, more equals and richer. They even produced silver of a singular species, rarely found elsewhere. Towards the sea coast, great lumps of this metal are found in-the sands. Sub erroneous fires, volcanos, and the revolutions which America hath experienced and frill continues to sussex, seem to indicate the causes of the transposition of those metallic masses, that are met with in several parts of this continent. THERE are a great number of other mines which are: infinitely more important, and are found in the rocks and on:the mountains. Several of them gave false hopes. Such in . particular was that of Ucuntaya, discovered 17133.-This:was only an incrustation of almost massive flyer,: which at first yielded several millions, but was soon-exhausted. . Others which were deeper, have been alike deserted. Their produce, though equal to what it was originally, sas not sufficient to support the expence of working :hem, which augmented every day. The mines of )unto, Cusco, and Arequipa, nave experienced that lev:. tion which-awaits many of the ref. Ths E are great numbers of very rich mines which the waters have invaded. The disposition of the ground,which
B o o K which from the summit of the Cordeleras goes continually shelving to the South Sea, must necessarily render these events more common at Peru than in other places. This inconvenience, which with greater care and skill might often have been prevented or diminished, has been in Come instances remedied. A tingle instance will be sus ancient to shew that the avarice of mankind can struggle against that of nature, when the conceals or withdraws from us her treasures joseph SALCEDO, about the year r660, had disco. vexed not far from the town of Puna, the mine of Lay cacota. It was so rich, that they often cut the filer with a chisel. Prosperity, which debates little minds, had so elevated that of the proprietor of so much opulence that he permitted all the Spaniards who came to seek their fortune in this part of the new world to work some days on their own account, without weighing or taking any account of the presents he made them. This generosity drew around him an infinite number of people, whose avidity made them quarrel with each other; the love of money made them take up arms, and fall upon one another; and their benefactor, who had neglected no expedient to prevent and extinguish their sanguinary contentions, was hanged as being the author of them. Whilst he was in prison the water got. possession of his mine. Superstition loon made it imagined that this was a punishment for the horrid ac they had per related against him. This idea of divine vengeance was revered for a long time; but at lait in 174o, Di ego de Bacna associated with other opulent people, to avert the springs, which had deluged so much treasure, The labours, which this difficult undertaking required, were not finished till 1754. The mine yields as much how as it did at first. But mines still richer than this have been discovered, which have experienced no revolution Such, for example, is that of Potofi, whiche was
was found in the same country, where the Incas worked B o o R that of Porch, V AN Indian, named Hualpa, in 1545, pursuing some deer, in order to climb certain steep rocks laid hold of a buhl, the roots of which loosened from the earth, and brought to view an ingot of silver. The Indian had recourse to it for his own use, and never failed to re turn to his treasure every time that his wants or his de fires sollicited him to it. The change that had happened in his fortune was remarked by his countryman Guanca, to whom he avowed the secret. The two friends could not keep their counsel and enjoy their good fortune. They quarrelled; on which the indiscreet confident discovered the whole to his master Villareal, a Spaniard that was fettled in the neighbourhood. Upon this the mine became known and was worked ; and a great num ber of them were found in its vicinity ; the principal of which are in the northern part of the mountain, and their direction is from north to south. The most intel diligent people of Peru have observed, that this is in ge neral, the direction of the richest mines. THE same of what was passing at PotoGi soon spread abroad, and quickly there was built at the foot of the mountain, a town confiding of sixty thousand Indians, and ten thousand Spaniards. The sterility of the soil did not prevent it's being immediately peopled. Corn, fruits, flocks, American tfuffs, European luxuries arrived there from every quarter. Industry which every where follows the current of money, could not search for it with so much success as at its source. It evidently ap feared that in 1738 these mines produced annually 22,338,975 livres , without reckoning the silver which was not registered, and what had been carried off by fraud. From that time the produce has been so muche Near 978,Oool.,diminished,
1 B o - K diminished; tat no more than one eighth part of the coin,-V91. which was formerly struck, is now made the mine of Potofi, and all the mines of south America in purifying their gold and silver, use mercury, with which they are supplied from Guanga Velica. Mer cry, says an able naturalist, is found in two different states in the bosom of the earth ; it is either altogether pure, and in the fluid form which is proper to it, and then it is denominated virgin mercury, because it has not experienced the action of fire, in order to be ex traced from the mine; or it is found combined with sulphur, and then it forms a substance of a red colour which is more or less vivid, called cinnabar till the mine of virgin mercury, which was lately discovered at Montpellier under the buildings of the town itself, and for that reason will probably never be worked, there had been no others known in Europe, except those of Udria in Carniola. These are in a valley, at the foot of high mountains-which were cal led by the Romans Alpes s7uli,. They were discovered by chance in x497. They are about nine hundred feet deep. The descent into them is by pits, as into all other mines. There are under ground an infinite'number galleries, of which some are so low, that it-is ne cesare to sloop in order to pass along; there are place where it is so hot, that if one stops ever so short a time, one is in a profuse sweat: it is from these subterraneous caverns that mercury is drawn. Some stones ate replete with it to that degree, that when they. are. bruised, this substance issues out in the form of globule its-drops. 'Tis found also in a species of clay : fortifies even this mercury is seen running down like rain, and oozes so copiously among the rocks which form the vaults these subterraneous caverns. that a man has often gathered thirty-fix pound of it in a dayes-HERE
THERE are same people so enamoured of the mar B 0o o - fellows, that they prefer this mercury to the other V . which is mere prejudice. Experience shews that the best mercury that can be used either in medicine or in metallurgy, is that which hath been extracted from cinnabar In order to separate the combination of sulphur and mercury, which nature hath formed between there two volatile substances, recourse mull necessarily be had to the action of fire to which rome intermediate substance nul, be joined. This is either the filings of steel or copper, or the regulus of antimony, or lime, or some fixed alkaline salt. This lait species of mercury is drawn from Hungary, Slavonic, Bohemia, Carinthia, Fri uil, and Normandy; especially from Almaden in Spain, which was a famous mine even in the time of the Ro mans, and which with that of Guanca Velica has for some short time contributed to serve the Spanish co ionics. THE common opinion is, that this last mine was discovered in 1564. The trade of mercury was then hill free: it became an exclusive trade in 1571. At this period all the mines of mercury were shut, .and-that of Guanca Velica alone was worked, the pro party of which the king reserved to himself. It is not found to diminish. This mine is dug in a prodigiously large mountain, sixty leagues from Lima. In its profound abyss are seen streets, squares, and a chapel, where the mysteries of religion on all festivals are ce serrated. . Millions of flambeaux are continually kept to enlighten it. THE earth, which contains the quicksilver of this mine, is, according to the opinion of a celebrated traveller, of a whitish red, like ill burnt brick. It is pounded, and put into an earthen kiln, the upper part of which is a vault like an oven, somewhat of a spherical form. This is extended on an iron grate covered with earth, under which
o o K which they keep up a gentle fire with the herb icha, which is fitter for this process than any other combustible matter, and the cutting of which on this account is prohibited twenty leagues round. The heat which penetrates this earth makes the pounded mineral so hot, that the quicksilver issues out of it volatility in smoak. But as the upper part is closely flopped, the smoak finds no issue but by a small hole which has a communication with a series of earthen retorts that are rounds and the necks of which are inserted into each other. There, this smoke circulates and condenses by means of a little water, which is at the bottom of each retort. The quicksilver then falls in a well formed liquid. Less of it is collected in the first than in the last retorts. They would all grow so hot as to break in pieces, if care was not taken to sprinkle them on the outside with water private people at their own expence work the mine of Guanca Velica. They are obliged to deliver to govern. ment at a stipulated price all the mercury they extract As soon as they have the quantity which the demands of one year require, the work is suspended. Part of the mercury is sold on the spot, and the rest is sent to the royal magazines throughout all Peru, from whence it is delivered out at the same price as it is sold for in Mexico. This arrangement, which has occasioned many of the mines to drop, and prevented others from being opened, is inexcusable in the Spanish system. The court of Madrid, in this respect, merits the same re preaches as a ministry in other countries would incur, that would be blind enough to lay a duty on the implements of agriculturists mine of Guanca Velica generally assets those wh: work in it with convulsions: this and the other mines, which are not not less unhealthy, are all worked by the Peruvians. These unfortunate victims of an insatiable avarice are crowded all together and plunged naked,inta
into these abysses, the greatest part of which are deep and B o o I all excessively cold. Tyranny has invented this refine n. ment in cruelty to render it impossible for any thing to escape Its restless vigilance. If there are any wretches who long survive such barbarity, the use of cocoa pre serves them. THE cocoa is a shrub which hardly ever riches higher than from three to four feet; its fruit is disposed in bunches, It is red when it begins to ripen, and black when it hath attained its maturity. Its leaf which is soft, of a pale green and resembling that of the myrtle, is the delight of the Peruvians. They chew it after having mixed it with a white earth which they call mantis; they substitute it for food ; it Strengthens their stomachs; it supports their courage. If those who are buried in the mines are in want of it, they cease working, and no means whatever can force them to re fume their labour. Their oppressors, therefore, furnish them with as much as they require, subtracting the price of it from their daily wages. The environs of Cusco furnish the bes cocoa. THIS plant, the other productions of the country, Mutual and all the fruits of industry, are dispersed throughout ationuo the empire in three different ways. The towns situated tie differ on the coast are furnished with provisions by vessels vincesof that are adapted to those seas, which are always Peru. calm. An innumerable multitude of mules, with which they are supplied from Tucuman, are the mediums of that connection which several provinces have with each other. The greatest circulation is effected by means of the Guayaquil. ON the banks of this river, which rises in the Cor* deserts, the Spaniards at the time of the conquest built a pretty considerable town, fix leagues from the sea. This is defended by three forts lately erected, and only gar prisoned with burgesses. They are built with large pieces of wood, disposed in palisades. The nature of this VOL. II. X wood,
B O O K wood, which is proof against water, suits the moisture,of the soil. IT is mentioned in the accounts of a Spanish philo fowler, that on this coal, as well as on that of Guatemala is found the murex which yields that purple so celebrated by the antients, ant inhich the moderns have imagined was los. The shell, which contains them, adheres to the rocks which the fca wa'ncs. It is of the size of a large walnut. The liquor of this. animal may be ex.:raed two ways; fore kill it, after they hav Crown it out of the shell, then press it with a knife from head to tai!, separate from: the body the part where the liquor is collected, and throw away the reft. Then th's operation, after bcinr repeated on several fr:ils, k s .afforded a certain q::antty of fluid, the third trended tr be dyed is dip?:-d in it, and the p:o- ccl' is finished. The colour, which is at first of tl;e whiteness of milk, becomes afterwards green, and is not of a purple colour till the thread is dry. Those who disapprove this method, draw. the fish partly out cf its shell, and squeezing it make it yield a fluid which fences for dying: they repeat this operation four times at different intervals, but always with less success. If they continue it, the fish dies, by their destroying that which constitutes the first principle of its life, and which it is no longer is able to renew. No colour at prest known, can be compared to this of which we are speaking, either as to lustre, liveliness, or duration it succeeds better with cotton than with wool, linen, .t silk. Besides this object of icu-irfits, Guayaquil furnishes the inland country of the en.phe with oxen, munlc, felt, and fait .ill; it supplies Europe and Mexico with a seat quantity of cocoa, but Peru with but little, as there thw .r:ic:a^!ly prefer the herb of Paraguay. It is the u::: cr:ll corked of the South Sea, and night, partly, become that of the n.o:hwr country. XWe knoll no,cou nt:}
country on the globe that equally abounds in wood for B o0 K Chip building and masts, either as to quality or quantity. j Hemp and pitch, of which it is destitute, might easily be furnished by Chili and Guatimala. BUT what renders Guayaquil still more considerable, is the advantage it possesses of being the necessary mart and bond of communication between the mountains of Peru and its valleys, with Panama and with Mexico. All the goods which there countries exchange, pass through the hands of its merchants. The largest 'efiels flop at the harbour of the island of Puna, which is situated at the entrance of the gulf, and others go up the river about forty leagues. NOTWITHSTANDING so many sources of prosperity, the people of Guayaquil, whose numbers amount to twenty thousand fouls, are far from being wealthy. The fortunes of its inhabitants have been successively overturned nine times by fires, which they have ascribed to the discontentedly of the negroes, and by pirates, who have twice sacked the town. Those fortunes, which have been acquired since there fatal aras, have not continued in the country. A climate, where the heat is in tolerable the whole year, and the rains incessant for fix months; where dangerous and noisome insets do not allow any tranquillity; where distempers of the most opposite degrees of temperature appear to be united; where one lives in the perpetual dread of losing one's fight, such a climate is by no means proper to fix the residence of its inhabitants. Such persons are only seen here, as have not acquired estates sufficient to enable them to remove elsewhere, and spend their days in in silence and pleasure. A taste, which predominates in the empire, induces the most opulent to reside at Lima. THIS capital of Peru, so celebrated in all parts of the world, is situated at two leagues from the sea, in a,X 2 delicious
Bo o K delicious plain, at about an equal distance from the,VIL. equator and the southern tropic, to unite as it were,all the riches and delights of South America. The prospect from it on one side extends over a tranquil ocean, on the other it commands a distance of thirty leagues as far as the Cordeleras. The soil of its territory is no thing but a heap of flints, which the sea has undoubt ely in a series of ages piled together, but they are co vexed with earth a foot below the surface, which the spring water, that is every where found on digging, hath brought from the mountains. It is in vain that the Spaniards would attribute the origin of there waters to their being filtrated from the sea; the theory of the globe and its natural continuation, testify against the truth of this opinion, which all experiments besides con firm to be false. SUGAR canes, incredible multitudes of olives, some vines, artificial meads, pastures full of talk which give mutton an exquisite taste, small grain appropriated to the feeding of fowls, fruit trees of every kind, and certain other plantations, cover the surface of these fortunate plains. A Tea replete with fish contributes its stores to tender provisions plentiful at a moderate price. Crops of wheat and barley formerly augmented this variety of blessings; but an earthquake, about a century ago, caused such a revolution, that the feeds rotted without sprouting. After forty years of sterility, the husband man seeing the soil 'proved, was disposed to resume his former occupations. Chili, which had an exclusive privilege of furnishing Lima with provisions, opposed the cultivation of its territory, and the metropolis of Spain did not allow that of Peru to support itself again by its own productions till 1750.,LI:A, founded more than two centuries ago, and built b} the destroyers of Peru, was overturned at different times by eleven earthquakes. The twelfth, which hap. opened on the 28th of October 1746, in three minutes,tillCe
time ingulphed the town, its harbour of Callao, all the B o o K vessels belonging to the coast, with fifteen hundred mil VII lions g, as it is reported, of silver, either coined, worked, or in ingots. Thole who had for a long time been sunk as it were into a lethargy, have been awakened by this violent confusion. New activity, new emulation, have been productive of labour and industry. Lima, though less wealthy, is at present more agreeable than in 1682, when its gates presented to the view of the duke of Pa lata on his entering, streets paved with silver. THESE streets now are only regular, with neat houses and public buildings which display skill and taste. The water of the river which washes its walls, has been collected and dispersed for the convenience of the citizens the ornament of gardens and the fertility of the fields. BUT these walls are defective from the very solidity of their foundations. At the distance of some leagues from Lima we see orme houses that were formerly built, that were butjuft erected on the surface of the earth with out any cement, which however have resifted thole as faults and convulsions that have overturned the deep-laid edifices of the Spaniards. The natives of the country, when they saw the foundations dug, and then built with mortar, said that their tyrants dug graves for themselves. Perhaps, it was some consolation to the wretchedness of the conquered, to foresee that the earth itself would take its revenge of its depopulators; but in this respect two centuries of chastisement have not re formed them. The pleasure of having commodious houses, or the vanity of raising spacious ones, still triumphs over the danger of their being crushed to pieces. THE scourges of nature, which gave occasion to the introduction of the arts into Lima, have produced no,g 65,6z5,oool.,X 3 happy
Bo o K happy revolution in the manners of its inhabitants vii. v , That superstition which reigns throughout the whole ex-tent of the Spanifh dominions, at Peru holds two sceptres in her hand; one of gold, for the usurping and tri implant nation; the other of iron, for its enslaved and pillaged inhabitants. The scapulary and the rosary, are all the tokens of religio. which the monks require of the Spaniards. it is on the form and colour of these kinds of talismans, that the populace and the grandees found the prosperity of their undertakings, the success of their amorous intrigues, and the hopes of their fal nation. The religious habit assumed in the last mo ments, constitutes the security of opulent people who have lived ill; they are convinced, that when wrapped in this cloathing, which is so formidable to the devil, he will not dare to descend into their graves, and seize upon their fouls. If their ashes repose near the altar, they hope to partake of the sacrifices and prayers of the priests, much more than the poor and the slaves. After such fatal prejudices, what enormities will they not commit to acquire riches, which secure their happiness in this world, and the next. The vanity of immortalized their name, and the promise of eternal life, convey over to the monks a fortune, which they can no longer Cnjc. ; and families are disappointed of an inheritance, whether acquired by honesty or fraud, by legacies which go to enrich men who have found the fzcrct of escape. ing poverty, by devoting themselves to it. Thus it is It.it the order of sentiments, ideas, and things is sub e cried; and the children of opulent parents preconceived ro a forced mimicry by the pious rapacity of a host of voluntary mendicants. The French, Dutch, and English i.;e their national prejudices by travelling; the Spa ,hard carries his along with him throughout the whole uni vcrlc: and such is the madness of bequeathing legacy :to the church, that the ground of all the houses opera
Peru belongs to the priesthood, or depends on them with B o o K regard to rent. The institution of Monkish orders, Vi ' A has done at Peru what the law of the IJcrffwill do sooner or later at Constantinople. Here the people bequeath their fortunes to a minaret, in order to secure it to their heirs; there they deprive all heir of it by leaving it to a monlatrry from the dread of being damned. The means are a little different, but in the herd, the effect is the same. Il both countries, the church is the ths, in which all the riches are absorbed, and these Castilians, who were heretofore io formidable, shrink before superstition, as Asiatic slaves do in the presence of their despot. IF we were to judge of the Creoles from these extra agencies, we should be tempted to believe them to be totally stupid; but we should be mistaken. The inhabitants of the valleys have some degree of penetration, and those of the mountains are not destitute of it. Both deem themselves very much superior to the Spanifh Europeans, whom they regard as caeal/os, that is to say brutes. THEY possess more understanding than courage. All there people, though dissatisfied with government, are alike submissive to it. IMcn every where forget their numbers and their strength. There, even the very name of royal officers is formidable; and four soldiers, dispatched by the viceroy, make whole towns tremble at the distance of four hundred leagues from the capital. THIS timidity in a Peruvian, is the catife or the es frEt of his effeminacy. He lives among courtesan, or amuses himself at home in drinking the herb of Para gay, He is afraid to diminish the joys of love by con fining it within legitimate bonds. The majority of the inhabitants marry behind the church, that is their expression which :signifies living in a state of concubinage, If the children who illuc from this commerce, are ac-,X 4 know!zdecdi
0 0 o K knowledged by their parents, they inherit, and their YVI. birth incurs no slain. The bishops anathematize every year at Easter, those persons who are united in these illicit bonds. But what power have these vain terrors over love, which is sanctified by custom, against the toleration or example of ecclesiastics of the second order, and against the climate, which is continually contending and at last proves various over all the civil and religious laws that oppose their influence ?the charms of the Peruvian women are superior to the terror which the spiritual arms of Rome inspire. The majority of them, especially the women of Lima, have eyes sparkling with vivacity, a fair skin, a com flexion that is delicate, animated, full of sprightliness and life, and a slender and well-formed-ihape, which is very alluring. But that which has a greater effect on the men, is the smallness of a pretty foot, which in their infancy is fashioned to this diminutiveners by strait shoes. They turn away from the large feet of the Spanish women to admire those of a Peruvian, who to the artifice of generally concealing them, adds the happy address of sometimes discovering them.,To these very small feet we may add long tresses, which might serve as a veil to modesty, on account of their thickness and colour, and their natural disposition to grow thick and long. The Lima women dress some of their hair very high on their head, but the rest they suffer to fall on their shoulders in the form of ringlets, without buckling or curling it. They are so jealous of preserving it in its own natural beauty, that they do not put the least additional ornament to it. Pearls and diamonds are reserved for ear rings, for large necklaces, for bracelets, for rings, for a plate of gold suspended on the center of the bosom by a ribband which goes round the body. A woman that has no titles, and is not en noble, seldom goes out full dressed, but she displays ' * " in
in jewels the value from an hundred to an hundred and B o o K fifty thousand livres b; yet it is the fashion to assert an V1. indifference for these trifles. It is necessary that a woman hould lose, or let fall, some of them without taking notice of it, that she should always have some jewel to replace or to add. BUT what seduces the eyes and raises the most emotion is a dress which leaves the bosom and the Shoulders bare, and only descends to half way the leg. From thence to the ancle falls a lace, through which are seen the ends of garters embroidered with gold or silver, and ornamented with pearls. The linen, the petticoat, the habit, all is loaded with the finest lace. A woman seldom appears in public without being attended with three or four slaves, most of them mulatto women, in reveries as the men are, and adorned with lace as their mistresses. THESE ladies are fond of perfumes. They are never without amber, they scent their linen and their cloaths with it, and even their nosegays, as if there were some thing wanting to the natural perfume of flowers. The amber is undoubtedly an additional allurement to the men, and the flowers impart a new attraction to the women. With these they adorn their sleeves, and some times their hair, like shepherdesses. In the great square of Lima, where there are every day sold flowers, to the amount of sixteen or twenty thousand livres i, ladies are seen in gilt clashes, purchasing what is most rare with out regard to the price, and men in crowds adoring and contemplating what nature has formed most charming.; to embellish and enchant the dream of life. WHERE can there delights be enjoyed more than at Peru ? It is the proper province of the women to feel and communicate them. Among other pleasures the women of Lima love music, of which they are ex-son an average about 5,500 , i Near coal. on an average.,travagantly
Bo sK extravagantly fond. Nothing is heard on every side but fin.-,V1i. ing and concerts of vocal and instrumental music. They,have frequent balls. They dance here with surprizing lightness, but they neglect the graces of the arms to attend to the agility of the feet, and efpccially'to the inflections of the body ; which are images of the true notions of v.!l:;tru u:r s, as the expression of ths countenance, is the true accompaniment of callings the arms conspire to give grace to the attitude, Ia the ideas of pleasure are :;ll more strongly expressed by the body. In countries, where these venetians are most lively, dancing will agitate the sort and the body more than the arms. SUCH are the pleasures which the women taste and diffuse at Lima. Among many expedients to heighten and preserve their charms, they have a custom which it were to be wished that they would content to abandon, which is the use of imnpion. They give this name to snail rolls of tobacco, four inches long and nine lines in dia meter, wrapped in the whitest thread, from which the tobacco is drawn out as it is used. The ladies only put the end of the simpson to their mouth, and chew it fur a moment this mastication is particularly used in public .f- assemblies, where women receive company. Here is a drawing room, along one side of which runs an alcove half a foot high, and five or fix feet broad; it is here that carelesly seated, and with crossed legs on carpets and superb cushions, they pass whole d.sv without changing their posture even to eat; they uc: little tables, placed before them, for any work with which they choose to amuse themselves. The men, whom they admit to their conversation, fit in elbow chairs, unless their adorers from greater intimacy, are permitted to descend in the alcove, which is, as it were, the sanctuary of worship and of the idol. Yet these goddesses love rather to be affable than,h-1.ó:Y
haughty; and, banishing ceremony, they play on the n o 0 K harp and guitar, and sing and dance when they are de vii. fired. THEIR husbands are not the persons who are the chief objects of their complaisance. As the greatest part of the molt considerable citizens of Lima are devoted to their courtesan, the great heiresses are reserved for Eu romans, who come over into America. The advantage which these have of making the fortunes of their hus bands, naturally prompts them to domineer: but let them have the sway of which they are so jealous, and they will prove constantly faithful. So particularly is virtue connected with a certain degree of pride ! THE manners of the Esteem, and of the free Mulattoes who compote the greatest part of the inhabitants of Lima, and who retain the arts in their hands, hardly differ from the manners of the Spaniards. The habit they have contracted of sleeping after dinner, and reposing one part of the day, makes them set a greater price upon their labour than they ought. The time they de vote to labour muff procure them the conveniences as well as the luxuries of life, which in general are carried very far. Their wives in particular value themselves on the magnificence of their furniture and dress. They never go out but in carriages, and imitate the ladies of the suis rank even with regard to their shoes. They habituate themselves to press their feet very tight in order to hide their natural size, which is seldom corrected by this ma engagement. But though they carry their imitation so far as to form circles and assemblies, as they do" yet they never attain a perfect resemblance to them. Their hut bands are still further removed from the polite manners of the European Spaniard or the Creole, though there is but little real merit or genius in copying them. They are rude, haughty, and troublesome; but these faults,which
B 0 0 K which are irksome in society, are hardly carried to such,vn. excesses or violences as to disturb the public order the whole commerce at Lima is exercised by the Spaniards, the number of whom is from fifteen to sixteen thousand. The capitals they employ in trade are immense. There are not in reality more than ten or twelve houses whose capital exceeds two millions k; but a million is very common, and five hundred thou sand livres f till more so. The desire of enjoying, the vanity of making an appearance, the passion of orna meeting churches, prevent the fortunes of the Creoles from advancing as high as the nature of things would admit. The European Spaniards, who arc solely occupied in pursuing the plan of returning to their country, shew that with industry and oeconomy, people may very soon enrich themselves. Merchants, who are in want of assistance, are sure to find it in the posterity of the conquerors of Peru. If some of these distinguished fa miles have perpetuated their splendor by entailing their estates upon their eldest sons, and by the revenues alone of their estates, the greatest part have only supported it by taking part in commercial transactions. A species of industry which is so honourable to human nature, whose understanding, power, and activity it enlarges, has never been deemed to derogate from their nobility; and. in this point alone, they have abandoned the false and romantic ideas of their ancestors. These means joined to the immense deposits which come from the inland countries, have rendered Lima the center of all the transactions which the provinces of Peru are con finally carrying on either among themselves, or with Mexico and Chili, or with the mother country. Communes THE straits of Magellan appeared the only open way cion of to form this las connection. The length of the pas Europe. sage, the terror inspired by stormy and almost unknown 87,500S , 43,750o. z2,S751.,(ews,
seas, the fear of exciting the ambition of other nations, B o o K the impossibility of finding an asylum in case of un happy accidents; and other considerations, perhaps, turned all their views towards Panama. THIS town, which had been the gate through which they had entered into Peru, had risen to great prosperity, when in 1670 it was pillaged and burnt by pirates. It was rebuilt on a more advantageous spot, at the distance of four or five miles from the first. Its harbour, called Perico, is very secure. It is formed by an ar archipelago confining of forty eight small islands, and is capable of containing the largest fleets. THIS place, a little while after it was founded, be came the capital of the kingdom of Terra Firma. Some hopes were at first entertained from the three provinces of Panama, Darien, and Veranda, which composed it; but this prosperity vanished like lightning. The savages of Darien recovered their independence; and the mines of the two other provinces were found to be neither sufficiently abundant, nor of an alloy good enough, to make it worth while to work them. Five or fix small boroughs, in which are seen rome Europeans quite naked and a very small number of Indians, who have come to reside there, form the whole of this state, which the Spaniards are not ashamed of honouring with the great name of king dom. It is in general barren and unwholesome, ant contributes nothing to trade but pearls. THE pearl fishery is carried on in the islands of the gulf. The greatest part of the inhabitants employ such of their negroes in it, who are good swimmers. These slaves plunge and plunge in the Tea in search of pearls, till this exercise has exhausted their strength or their spirits. EVERY negro is obliged to deliver a fixed number of others. Those, in which there are no pearls, ant those, in which the pearl is not entirely formed, aren't
3 o o K not reckoned. What he is able to find beyond the lti-,v'. plated obligation, is considered as his indisputable pro-,perty: he may sell it to whom he pleases ; but com monty he cedes it to his masser at a moderate price sea monsters, which abound more about the islands where pearls are found than on the neighbouring coasts, render this fishing dangerous. Some of these devour the divers in an instant. The manatee, which derives its name from its figure, surrounds them, rolls them under its body, and suffocated them. In order to defend them celtes against such enemies, every fifllcr is armed with a picard : the moment he perceives any of these voracious fil, he attacks them with precaution, wounds thin, and drives them away. Notwithstanding this, there are always some fishermen destroyed, and a great number crippled.,Tas pearls of Panama are commonly of a very fine water. Some of them are even remarkable for their size and figure: these were formerly sold in Europe. Since art has imitated them, and the passion for diamonds has entirely superseded or prodigiously diminished the use of them, they have found a new mart, more ad advantageous than the first. They are carried to Peru, where they are in great estimation. THIS branch oi trade has however infinitely lets con tribute to give reputation to Panama, than the advantage which it hath long enjoyed of being the mart of all the productions of the country of the Incas, that are cL:'.ined for the old world. These riches, which are brought hither by a frnall fleet, were carried, tome on mules, others by the river Chagre, to Porto Bei!o, that is situated on the northern coast of the iflihus vw.C*.h f:para:s the :*o leas.,IHJiU-OU the situation of this town was surveyed and approved by Columbus in 1502, it was not built till 158;, from the ruins of Nombre d: Dios. It is,7 di fpo'fd
disposed in the form of a crescent, on the declivity of u o o it a mountain which environs the harbour. This celtes VII. rated-harbour, which was formerly very well defended by forts which Admiral Vernon destroyed in 1740, seems to afford an entrance fix hundred toises broad; but it is so straitened by rocks that are between wind and water, that it is reduced to a very narrow canal. Vessels are towed into it, because they always experience either contrary winds or a great calm. Here they enjoy pera-security. THE temperature of tile climate of Porto Bello is so notorious, that it has been named the grave of the Spa riards. More than once the galleons have been left here, because they had host in this place the greatest part of their crew. The English who blockaded this place i; 1726, would not have been able to have regained Jamaica if they had waited some days longer. The in .habitants themselves do not live long, and have all a weak constitution. It is rather a disgrace to be obliged to reside here. Some negroes and mulattoes are to be found here, with a finally number of white people, fixed .b the employments that the government intrusts to them. The garrison itself, though only consisting of an hundred and fifty men, do not continue here more than three months together. Till the beginning of the pre sent century no woman durst lie-in here: she would haie deemed it devoting both her children and herself to certain death. It is an established faa, that the domestic animals of Europe which have prodigiously multiplied in all the parts of the new world, lose their fruitfulness on coming to Porto Bello; and ir Ive .ray judge by the few that now are there, notwithstanding the abundance of pastures, we might be induced to believe th t phil opinion is nor ill found. The plants that are trails pi.ntci into this fatal region, v here the heat, moisture, sin tl: ri p,.lur arc txc3i'ie and continual, have never,profpcrcd.
o o K prospered. It would take up too much time to recount VI. all the evils experienced here, it would be-difficult to,assign the causes of them, and, perhaps, impossible to point out the remedy these inconveniences prevented not Porto Bella from becoming at first the center of the richest com mere that ever existed. Whilst the riches of the new world arrived there to be exchanged for the productions of the old, the vessels that failed from Spain, and known by the name of galleons, came hither, laden with all the articles of necessity, convenience, and luxury, which could tempt the proprietors of the mines the deputies for translating this commerce on both sides, regulated on board the admiral ship the price of goods, under the inspection of the commander of the squadron and the president of Panama. The estimation was not adjusted by the intrinsic value of each article, but by its scarcity or plenty. The ability of the agents.confifed in forming their combinations so judiciously that the cargo imported from Europe should absorb all the treasures that were come from Peru. It was regarded as a bad market, when there were found goods neglected for want of money, or money not laid out for want of goods. In this case only, the Spanifl merchants were allowed to go and traffic in the South Sea, and the Peruvian merchants were permitted to make remittances to the metropolis for their purchases.,As soon as the prices were fettled, the traffic com mended. This was neither tedious nor difficult, it was carried on with the utmost frankness. Exchanges were made with so much honesty, that they never opened their chests of piastres, nor proved the contents of their bales. This reciprocal confidence was never deceived. There were found more than once sacks of gold mixed among sacks of silver, and articles which were not en tered on the invoice. All was exactly reformed before,the
the departure of the galleons, or on their return. There B o o K only happened in Ici an event, which might have in V , interrupted this confidences was found in Europe that all the piastres that were received at the last fair, had a fifth of alloy. The lost was borne by. the Spanish mer chants; but as the treasurer of the mint at Lima was known to be the author o. this misdemeanor, the repu nation of the Peruvian merchants incurred no disgrace. The fair, the duration of which on account of the noxious qualities of the air was limited to forty days, was regularly held. It is clear from the acts of 1595, that the galleons muff have been dispatched for Europe every year, or at the latest every eighteen months; and twelve fleets that failed from the fourth of August 1628 to the third of June 1645, prove that this rule was not strictly observed. They came back at the end of eleven, ten, and Sometimes even eight months, with an hundred millions " and more, in gold, silver, and goods. THIS prosperity continued without interruption to the middle of the seventeenth century. After the loTs of Jamaica, a considerable contraband trade took place, which till that time had been trifling. The sacking of Panama in 1670, by John Morgan the English pirate, was attended with still more fatal consequences. Peru, which font thither its flock before-hand, now no longer transmitted it till after the arrival of the galleons at Cartagena. Delays, uncertainty, distrust, were the consequences of this change. The fairs were not much frequented, and smuggling increased. SrAIN was threatened with a much greater evil. The Scots in 1690 landed twelve hundred men in the gulf of Darien. Their design was to gain the con silence of the savages, whom the Castilians had not been able to subdue, to arm them against a nation which they detested, to form a settlement on their territory, town 4i,75,ccl. VoL. II. Y break
B o o K break off the communication of Cartagena with Porto,VI. Bello, to intercept the galleons, and to unite their forces with those of Jamaica, in order to acquire a de five superiority in this part of the new world. THIS plan, which had nothing chimerical in it, displeased Louis XIV, who offered to the court of Madrid a fleet to frustrate its designs: it displeased the Dutch, who had reason to be afraid that this new company would one day divide with them the smuggling trade, which they monopolized in these latitudes: it was also disagreeable to Spain, which threatened to confiscate the effects of the subjects of Great Britain, who traded in her dominions. It was more particularly alarming to the English, who foresaw, that their colonists would abandon their old plantations, to go and reside on a ter ritory teeming with gold; and that Scotland growing rich, would emerge from that state of dependence to which its poverty had hitherto reduced it. This violent and universal opposition determined King William to revoke a permission, which his favourites had extorted from him. He moreover prohibited all his colonies in the new world from furnishing either arms, provisions, or ammunition to a rising settlement, whose ruin would insure the public tranquillity. Thus was stifled in its infancy a colony, whose greatness did not appear to be remote, and mull one day have been very considerable. THE Spaniards had Scarce time to rejoice at this happy event. The elevation of a prince of France to the throne of Charles the V. kindled a general war; and at the commencement of the first hostilities, the galleons were burnt in the port of Vigo, where the impracticability of gaining Cadiz had forced them to take shelter. The communication of Spain with Porto Bello, was ther totally interrupted; and the South Sea had more thar ever direct and regular connections with firangers.,Tm
THE peace of Utrecht, which seemed to promise a B o o K termination of these troubles, only served to increase VJi. them. Philip V, who was forced to submit, was com pellet to withdraw the treaty of Assent from the French, who being unsuccessful in the whole course of the war, and at that time little acquainted with maritime commerce, had enjoyed this privilege from 1702, without deriving any considerable benefit from it. The French were succeeded by the English: THE South Sea company, who enjoyed an exclusive privilege, were to furnish four thousand eight hundred Africans, and to pay the king of Spain 160 livres * a head for every negro. They were obliged to give only half for those they should import above this num ber, during the twenty-five first years of the stipulation In the five last they were prohibited to import beyond what was specified in the contrat: THEY were permitted to ship from Europe, on Board vessels of an hundred and fifty tons burthen, in the north sea, cloaths, medicines, provisions, and equipment for their flares, favors, and chips. They could sell all there goods to Spanish vessels who might have occasion for them to return. ON account of the distance, the company was au authorized to build houses on the river of Plata, to form lands in the neighbourhood of their carries, and get them cultivated by negroes or natives; that is to say, by means of this mart engross the whole commerce of Chili and Paraguay. THEY had not less freedom with regard to the South Sea, They were permitted to freight at Panama, and in all the other ports on this coast, vessels of four hun died tons burthen, to convey their negroes to all the coasts of Peru, to equip them as they pleated, to nominate the commanders of them, to bring back the pro-,oY duc y 2 duce
B o o K: duce of their sales in provisions, in gold, or in ilver,,VIl. ,without being subjea to any duty of import or export they might send to Porto-bello, and convey from thence to Panama, every thing that was necessary for the fitting out of the Lips they should send. THOUGH there concessions, must have been very disagreeable to Spain, the English knew how to avail themselves of their superiority, and compelled her to a still more painful submission. They obtained the permission of sending every year a vessel laden with merchandise to the fair of Porto-bello. It always arrived with a thou sand tons burthen, instead of five hundred which it was allowed to carry. It was neither furnished with water, nor provisions. Four or five vessels which followed it, supplied its wants; and frequently substituted goods in the place of such as had been sold. The galleons, ruined by this competition, were also greatly detrimental by every thing that the English poured into their ports where they carried negroes. At last, after the ex petition of 1737, it was impossible to support this com mere any longer, and a flop was put to those famous fairs envied by all nations, though they might be regarded as the common treasure of all people. From that ara, Panama and Porto-bello have astonishingly declined. These two towns now only serve as a passage to the ne goes that are carried into the South Sea, and to some other inconsiderable branches of a decaying traffic. Affairs of greater importance have been turned into another channel.,IT is well known that Magellan in 1520 discovered the famous strait that bears his name, and which separates the extremity of South America from Terra del Fuego. This strait is computed to be near an hundred and ten leagues long, and in some places less than a league broad. Though it was for a long time the only passage known into the South Sea, the dangers incurred there,caused
caused it almost to be forgotten. The boldness of B o o K Drake the celebrated navigator, who by this way car V1 cried his ravages on the coasts of Peru, determined the Spaniards in I582 to form at the straits of Magellan, a settlement, destined to become the key of this part of the new world. This new colony perished almost en timely for want of provisions. Three years after, Ser nando Gomez only was left there, who was brought back into Europe by the English pirate Thomas Ca vending. THE loss of this colony, was not so great an evil as it was apprehended to be. The straits of Magellan soon ceased to be the road of those pirates who were urged by their mercenary views to visit these remote regions. Some bold navigators having doubled Cape Horn, this became afterwards the way which the ene mies of Spain followed, who designed passing into the South Sea. It was still more frequented by French vessels, during the war which caused such confusion in Europe at the beginning of the present century. The impossibility which Philip V. experienced to furnish his colonies himself with provisions, emboldened the sub jets of his grandfather to go to Peru. The want of every thing which they then experienced, made the French to be received with joy; and at first they got a profit of eight hundred per cent. These enormous pro fits were not continued. The competition at last was so considerable, the goods sell into such disrepute that it was impossible to sell them, and several privateers burnt them, that they might not be obliged to carry them back into their country. The equilibrium was not long in re-establishing itself; and these foreign traders made advantages that were considerable, when the court of Madrid in 1718 took effectual measures to remove them from there latitudes, which they had but too long frequented.,Y3 AT
B o o K AT this time the expeditions to the south sea by,V1I. Cape Horn were discontinued. The Spaniards them-selves resumed them in 740o with tolerable advantage. They flatter themselves that at the expiration of the treaty of Assent, that of Peru would resume its former a&i:cty. They must have been undeceived since that time. The colony has not furnished a greater quantity of bark, of the wool of the Vicuna, and cocoa, than before, and the mines proved to be so considerably di miniHied, that the annual returns in gold and silver did not exceed seventeen millions P. There was no part even of this turn for government; because though the fame duties are established a: Peru as in Mexico and all the other settlements, the expences of administration have swallowed up the whole. General re THINGS were not conducted with more knowledge, marks on r.nr G.e- probity, and oeconomy in the vice-royalty of new which s Grenada, which was separated from that of Peru. This C,-ached new dominion, which was formed in 1718, extends from Pu. along the south sea from Panama to the gulph of Guya-,quil; along the north sea from Mexico to the river Oro. novo, and goes so far back by land, that it comprehends an immense territory the numerous provinces, that compose this great government, are covered with immense forests, separated by high mountains, and abounding with uncultivated lands. These vast regions have not been entirely sub duet. Here savages are to be met with in all parts, who have no other passion but that of surprising and massacring the Spaniards. Such even of the Indians who have been forced to undergo the yoke, have vowed an implacable hatred against their tyrants. Their first concern is to perpetuate this animosity in their fa mile. They incessantly call to their children's remembrance the calamities which marked the first arrival of,Near 4,Cccel.,the
the destroyers of the new world, and that sanguinary B o o K spirit which hath never ceased to animate their face censors. AT the time of the conquest, this country was inhabited by an infinite number of nations that were not populous, the greatest part of whom led a wandering life, and were most of them ferocious and indolent. The men here were more native, the women more beautiful and fair than in the neighbouring climates. The country being at a considerable distance from any of the great rivers, twenty, thirty and forty leagues may some times be crossed without meeting with a hut. Since the time of the invasion, this scanty population hath scarce suffered any diminution; because there has been no destructive labour carried on there, and that the sub je&ed people have not been condemned to work in the mines. It is seldom that any thing is exacted from them besides the tribute imposed. Some pay this in provisions others in gold, which they find in the torrents or rivers. There are others who fulfil this kind of obligation from the profits they make on certain Euro pean goods, which they sell to the Indians who have not yet been subdued. THE country of Quito, which hath been incorpo- Remarks fated with what is called the new Kingdom, is the best "theoun. known and the most agreeable part of it. Nothing, for to. instance, can be compared to the valley formed between the double chain of the Cordeleras mountains. IN the center of the torrid zone, immediately un der the equator, all the beauties of spring are incessantly enjoyed. The mildness of the air, the equality of day and night, yield a thousand delights in a country which the fun surrounds with a girdle of fire. It is preferred to the climate of the temperate zones, where the change of the seasons occasions sensations too,Y 4 much
o 0 K much opposite not be inconvenient from that very Vi. inequality. Nature appears to have combined underside line that covers Co many Teas and so little land, a multitude of circumstances which conspire to moderate the ardour of the fun; these are the elevation of the globe in this submit of its sphere; the vicinity of mountains of immense height and extent, and always covered with snows; and continual winds which refresh the country the whole year, by interrupting the force of the per lenticular rays of heat. The whole universe would not afford a more agreeable retreat than the territory of Quito, if so many advantages were not counter balanced by Come inconveniences. AT one or two o'clock after noon, the time when the morning, which is almost always very fine, ends, the va pours begin to rise, and the sky is covered with gloomy clouds which are changed into forms. Then the whole atmosphere is illuminated, and appears to be set on fire by lightning: the thunder makes the mountains resound with a terrible noire. To there may be added dreadful earthquakes which sometimes happen: at other times rein or sunshine prevails without intermission for fifteen days together; and then there is an universal consternation. The excess of moisture spoils what is sown, and drought produces dangerous diseases.,B'T excepting these unhappy accidents, which ea very rare, the climate of Quito is one of the moil wholesome. The air is generally so pure, that those nauseous infects are there unknown which distress the greatest part of the provinces of America. Though profligacy and negligence render venereal com plaints here almuoil general, the people sussex very little from them. Thole who have inherited this contagious distemper, or who hae acquired it, grow old equally without danger a;ij without inconveniences THE
THE fertility of the soil answers to the mildness of B o o K the climate. The moisture and the action of the fun, being Vn. continual and always sufficient to unfold and strengthen the shoots, the agreeable picture of the three most beautiful seasons of the year are continually presented to the eye. In proportion as the grass withers, fresh grass shoots up; and the enamel of the meadows, is hardly pas, but it springs up again. The trees are incessantly covered with green leaves, adorned with odoriferous flowers; and always laden with fruit, whose colour, form and beauty are at once exhibited in all their fe vernal progressive states from their first appearance to their maturity. The corn advances in the same progression of fertility that is always renewing. At one view we may behold the new sown feed springing up, some that is grown larger and spiked with ears, tome turning yellow and some under the reapers fickle. The whole year is passed in sowing and reaping, within the com pass of the same field, or the same horizon. This con slant variety depends on the situation of the mountains, hillocks, plains, and valleys. THIS plenty of corn, maize, sugar, flocks, and all provisions, and the low price at which the impossibility of exporting them necessarily keeps them, has sunk the whole province, especially the capital in the greatest idleness and disorder. QUITO, which was conquered by the Spaniards in 1534, and is built on the declivity of the famous mountain of Pitching in the Cordeleras, may have fifty thousand inhabitants, the greatest part of whom are abandoned to shameful and habitual debauchery. Though such manners are common in all the Spanish colonies, they have not been carried'in any other spot to the same excess of corruption. Among the various passions, which have there been indulged with the,most
a o o K most licentious freedom, that of gaming has always been,vII. most destructive in its consequences though it is prohibited by law to carry a poniard, vet the mcftees, free negroes, or slaves, are seldom with out one. Thus it is, that every week, and almost every day, is marked by assassination. The abuse of those asylums, which secure impunity to such horrid acs, is the principal claus, of these disorders. It is to be hoped that the excess of the evil will point out the necessity of a remedy the metropolis continually imputed to this depravity of manners, the ruin of those gold and silver mines that were opened at the time of the conquest, and the neglect of those that have been since gradually discovered. The province, it is asserted, might apply to this kind of industry with so much the more success, as it is better peopled with Indians and Spaniards than any other country of the new world, and derives from itself prodigious plenty of excellent provisions, which in other parts muff be fetched from a great distance, and at a very considerable expence. Then this country, formerly so opulent might again become what it once was, and resume a lustre which prejudice and the turn of the place, will always prevent its deriving from its own agriculture and manufactures the Spaniards born at Quito, and those that are sent from Europe to take the administration of it, find these reproaches ill founded. They generally think that the mines of this province are not in sufficient abundance to defray the charge of working them. We cannot pre tend to decide this point. Yet if we only reflect on the ardour that these conquerors manifested for this species of riches, which without any labour on their part cost them nothing but the blood of those who were in possession of it, we may venture to conclude that no thin g bat an entire impossibility, founded on experi-,al~~~~ fence,
once, could determine this nation to deny itself the pure B o o K- suit of its natural inclinations, and resist the urgent V . sollicitations of the metropolis. THE province of Quito has endeavoured to make up the deficiency of its mines, by the produce of its manufactures. A prodigious quantity of hats, common cloth, light stuffs, and baize is made here. Exclusive of its home consumption, it hath now annually ex ported for a long time to the amount of five or fix mil lions of livres q. With this assistance it has been enabled to pay for the wines, brandies, and oils, that it was never allowed to draw from its own territory; for the dried and salted fil which was brought from the coasts; for the soap which is made at Truxillo from the fat of goats, which have exceedingly multiplied there; for the iron used in all their works of agriculture; and for all those objects of luxury it was supplied with from the Eld world. This traffic has diminished more than one half. At all times the inhabitants of the pro vince kept up the pride of dressing in European cloth, known throughout all America by the name of the cloth of Castille. This taste is become general since the register ships have been substituted to the galleons. The facility of being continually supplied with these ruffs, and of getting them at a lower price, has ruined the manufactures of Quito, which has been reduced to extreme wretchedness. THE country will never emerge from this languish ing condition by its connexions with Spain, to which it furnishes nothing but bark. The tree, which yields this famous remedy, is seldom more than two toises and a half high; its trunk and branches are of a proportional thickness: it grows in forests promiscuous amongst many other plants, and is propagated by feeds which fall to the ground of themselves. The only,* On au average about 40,00ooo Invaluable
B O K valuable part of it is its bark, which is no otherwise,wl*. prepared than by drying it. The thickest was always preferred till tome accurate experiments made in En gland and frequently repeated, have site. that the thinnest bark was the most efficaciously was long believed that the bark tree was orly found on the territory of Loxa, a town that was founded in r546 by captain Alonzo de Armadillo. That which was in the highcil estimation grew two leagues to the south es this place on the mountain of Cajanuma; and it is not more than fifty years ago, that tome merchants endeavoured to prove by certificates, that the bark which they sold came from this famous place. This remedy has lately been discovered in the neighbourhood of Rio baba, Cuenca, and some other countries, all in the province of Quito.,T'tr bark was known at Rome in ice. Theses suits, who had brought it thither, distributed it gratis to the poor, and sold it at an exorbitant price to the rich. The year following, John de Vega, physician to a vice-queen of Peru, who had experienced the salutary effects of it, established it in Spain at an hundred crowns a pound r. This remedy soon acquired great reputation, which it maintained, till the inhabitants of Loxa, not being able to supply the demands that were made on them, thought of mixing other barks with that which was so much in vogue. This fraud diminished the con silence that hed been placed in the bark, and consequently its price. The measures, which the court of .madrid employed to remedy so dangerous an imposition, were not entirely successful. The late discoveries must have rendered this production so common, that it does not appear probable that they continue to adulterate It.,r About 13 1.,IT
IT is a generally received opinion, that the natives of B O o K the country very antiently knew the use of the bark. It is said, that they infused it a whole day in water, and gave the liquor to a sick man to drink without the grounds. The fear of revealing so salutary a remedy to the Spa niards their tyrants, made them renounce it themselves. They had so thoroughly lost the remembrance of it, that they imagined it was used in Europe only for dying. Juliet, a French botanist, informed them of the con tray about thirty years ago. He taught them to di extinguish the middling fort of bark from the good, and from the most excellent of its kind; and accustomed them to have recourse, as we have, to its specific virtue in intermitting fevers. THESE people have not paid the same attention to the advices of intelligent persons who were desirous of persuading them to cultivate cochineal. This is found, in certain countries of the province, similar in every respect to the cochineal of New Spain. It is used in the manufactures of Loxa and CuenFa, to which circumstance may be ascribed the superiority of their stuffs and carpets to those of Quito, where it is not used. If the Spaniards can ever be rouzed from their inactivity to pursue this species of industry, they will open to themselves a new branch of commerce with Europe which they may enlarge, if they please, by the produce of cinnamon. TOWARDS the eastern side of the Cordeleras, are situated the countries of Quixos and Maces, which were subdued in 1559, and annexed to the province of Quito. There are only some scattered and miserable villages there. The first of there countries was never of any use to the metropolis; and the second hath ceased to be so, from the time when the insurrection of the Indians occasioned the rich mines, which they had opened there, to be abandoned. Both produce cinnamon, which is
B 0 o K in common use in Peru, and which might be much fur-,vIL ther extended, if they would bcflow proper attention upon the cultivation of it. Renard S TILL the province of Quito flail exert its own na ,'m Po"a tural advantages, the riches of New Grenada are limited,to the metals of Popayan and Chaco, two provinces that were conquered in r536. The barrenness of there countries at first induced them to judge unfavourably of their acquisition ; but these important discoveries Coon stamped a value on them. They found gold mines, by so much the more valuable, as the working of them is neither expensive, difficult, nor hazardous the mineral is scattered and mixed with the earth and gravel: this mixture is carried into a large reservoir, where it is pounded till the lighted parts escape from the reservoir by a pipe which serves to carry off the wa ter. Then the workmen take the heavy matter, that is to say, the sand and metal which remain at the bottom, and put them into wooden buckets which they turn cil clearly by a quick and uniform motion. They change the water, and continue to separate the light matter from the heavy. At last there remains at the bottom of there tubs nothing but gold cleared of all the extraneous bodies with which it had been mixed. It is generally found in duff, sometimes in grains of different sizes. The same operation is repeated in the second and third refer ioirs, that are placed under the first to receive the light parts of the gold that may have been carried away from the first baron by the running of the water. Some of the workmen are employed in working it, while others dig up the earth and carry it away. The labour is never interrupted these works are carried on by about eight thousand blckls. These slaves, who are never employed in mines of any depth, because the cold there kills them, are reserved for those mines which are near the surface of the,earth.
earth. They may every where be employed without B o O K endangering their life: they are preferred to the Indians va. who have less capacity and strength than them, and especially less of that good will which gives strength and capacity. It is universally the custom in Popayan and Chaco, that they deliver every day to their mailer a certain portion of gold ; what they can collect above this quantity belongs to themselves, as well as what they find on those days that are consecrated to religion and rest, on which they are the matters of their leisure time, on condition that during the festival they maintain them selves. This agreement puts the most laborious, the most frugal, and the most happy among them in a con edition of purchasing sooner or later their liberty. Then they intermix in marriage with the Spaniards. The two nations form only one and the same people. THE produce of their industry is carried to Santa Fe Remarks of Bogota, which was built in 1536 by Gonfalvo Xi santa menes de Quefeda in a place where he arrived from the north sea by the river of Magdalena, precisely at the same time as Sebastian de Benalcazar came there, from Popayan. Some violent contest immediately arose to set the the boundaries between these two conquerors, which terminated in favour of Quefeda. The city which he had built became the capital of the new kingdom of Grenada where in process of time were formed the towns of Marequita, Pampeluna, Tocayma, and some others less considerable. THIS colony was indebted for its first prosperity to the emerald, a precious stone, which is transparent and of a green colour, and which has no greater hardness than the rock crystal. SOME countries of Europe furnish emeralds, but they are of a very imperfect kind, and in little estimation. IT was fora long time believed that emeralds of a bright green came from the East Indies, and it is on this ac-count
B o o K count that they have called them oriental. This opinion vii. has been rejected, since it has been found impossible to tell,the places whence they were found. It is now certain that Asa has never sold us any of there jewels except what she herself had received from the new world. THESE beautiful emeralds belong certainly to America alone. The first conquerors of Peru found a great quantity of them, which they broke on anvils, from a persuasion they had that they would not break if they were fine. This loss became the more sensibly felt through the impossibility of discovering the mine from whence the Incas had drawn bo much treasure The mountains of New Grenada at last filled up this void; they furnished a great quantity of emeralds which were carried to Europe, from whence they were diffused throughout the whole world the Spanish historians speak with enthusiasm of the emeralds and metals which this colony';originally fur wished. Some make the produce amount to sums which would even astonish persons who have the greatest pro. density to the marvellous. Exaggeration perhaps has ne ver been carried so far. If the fabulous reports. that were raised, had only been approaching to :the truth, the colonists would have multiplied in proportion to their riches,. as it hath happened in all the, settlements that possess indisputable opulence - This.-populoufaefs does not exist, and no aera can be alledged;'in" which there were any remarkable emigrations. -. - LET this be as it may, these countries which presupposed formerly to have been so renowned, are fallen into the greatest obscurity: if Santa Si has in some de gree rescued itself from oblivion, it does not derive this advantage from its productions, which. are reduced to a small quantity of tobacco of an indifferent quality that is disposed of in the inland country, to a little corn which serves to supply Cartagena-with-provision of,this
this kind, and to a small number of emeralds, and a B o o K little quantity of gold, furnished by the valley of Neva. V" The attention ill bestowed upon it is in consequence of the happiness it has of being the feat of government, the center of all business, and the mart of the riches of Popayan and Chaco. THESE riches are carried on mules five hundred leagues, and embarked at Honda on the river of Magdalena upon small vessels. After a few days failing they enter into a channel which was formed by nature, but enlarged about the middle of the last century, which brings them to Cartagena. In the seasons when this channel is without water, and through the negligence of government it will soon be without it in all sea sons, the voyage is carried on upon the river, till they arrive at three days journey from this celebrated town, which they afterwards travel to by land. THE place, where Cartagena is at present situated, Remarks was discovered in 1502 by Bastions, who would have oeCanha- settled there, if he had not been repulsed by the fa wages. Several adventurers of his nation, who followed his footsteps, experienced the same resistance. At last Heretic appeared in 1527 with a force sufficient to re duce them. He built and peopled the town. THE prosperity of this settlement drew thither in 1544 Tome French pirates who pillaged it. In 1585 it was burnt by the celebrated Drake. Pointis took it and ransomed it in 1697. Admiral Vernon was obliged in 1741 to raise the siege of it, though he had undertaken it with twenty-five ships of the line, fix fire chips, two bomb ketches, and as many land forces as were sufficient to conquer all America. AFTER so many revolutions, Cartagena now subsists in splendour in a peninsula of sand, which is joined to the continent only by two narrow necks of land, the broaden of which is not thirty-five toises. Its for VOL. II. Z ratifications
B o o K ratifications are regular. Nature has placed at a little,VIIli. distance a hill of tolerable height, on which they have built the citadel of St. Lazarus. In time of peace these works are dcifnded by a garrison of between fix and seven hundred men. The town is one of the best built, the moth regular and belt disposed of any in the new world. It may contain twenty five thousand fouls. Of this number the Spaniards form the sixth part, the negroes, Indians, and several races composed of mixtures of an infinite variety, make up the rc- mairner.,T:-IS mixture is more common at Cartagena, than in the other Spanifh colonies. A multitude of adventurers without employment, without fortune, and with out recommendations, are continually resorting to this place. In a country where nobody knows them, no citizen can venture to repose any confidence in their ser vices; they are destined to subsist wretchedly on the alms of the convents, and to lye in the corner of a square, or at the gate of a church. If the afflictions they ex prince in this mis able state, occasion some great disorder, thcv are commonly assisted by the free negro women, whose care and kindness they requite by mar dying them. Such who have not the happiness of being in a situation dreadful enough to excite the companion of the women, are obliged to retire to home village to i've there by cultivating the ground, and reaping the fruit of their labours; which the haughty laziness of the inhabitants considers as the utmost ignominy. In reality, indolence is carried so far, that rien and worse that are wealthy seldom quit their hammocks, and that but for a little time two celebrated Spaniards have judged the climate to be one of the principal causes of this inactivity. The heat is excessive and continual at Cartagena. The tor rents of water, which are incessantly pouring down fron,thc
the month of May to November, have this peculiarity B o O that they never cool the air, which is sometimes a , 1 little moderated in the dry season by the north-east winds. The night is as hot as the day. An ha ritual perspiration gives the inhabitants the pale and livid colour of sickly persons. Even when they are perfectly well, their motions partake of the softness of the climate, which evidently relaxes their fibres. This indolence manifests itself even in their words, which are always uttered slowly and with a low voice. Those who come hither from Europe preserve their fresh complexions and plumpness three or four months. They afterwards lose both by falling into incessant sweats. THIS slate is the forerunner of an evil still more dreadful, but the nature of which is little known. It is conjectured that tome persons have it from catching cold, others from indigestion. It manifests itself by a vomiting accompanied with so violent a delirium, that the patient must be bound, to prevent him from tearing himself to pieces. He often expires in the midst of these agitations, which seldom last above three or four days. Those who haveefcaped this danger at first, run no risque for the future. Intelligent witnesses even assure us, that upon returning to Cartagena after a long ab fence, they have nothing to fear. THIS town and its territory exhibit the spectacle of a hideous leprosy, which indiscriminately attacks both na times and strangers. The philosophers, who have at tempted to ascribe this calamity to the eating of pork, have not considered that this distemper is unknown in the other countries of America, where this kind of food is not less common. In order to stop the contagion, they have founded an hospital in the country. All persons who are supposed to be attacked with it are shut up here, without distinction of f[x, rank, or age. The benefits 2 of
o O K of so wise an establishment is lost through the avarice,vn. , of the governors, who without being deterred by endanger of communication, sussex the poor to cone in and out to beg. Thus it is that the number of tue sick is so great, that the inclosure of the dwelling is of an im mense extent. Every one there enjoys a little spot of ground that they mark out for him at his entrance. There he builds an abode suitable to his fortune, where he lives in tranquillity to the end of his days, which are often long though unhappy. This disorder so pow fully excites that passion, which is the strongest of all others, that it has been judged necessary to permit marriage to such as are afflicted with it. This is, perhaps, increasing the passion, - by increasing the means of satisfying it. These desires appear to be irritated by the very gratification of them, they increase by their very remedies,'and are reproduced-byeachother. The wretchedness of beholding this ardent disease which-runs in the blood, perpetuated' in the-children, bath given way to the dread of other disorders that are-pers laps, chimerical-IF we were less acquainted with the negligent disposition of the Spaniards, we might persuade them to make an experiment which, probably, would be attended With success. There are orr.e people in Africa that-are situated nearly under the same latitude, who-have a, custom of rubbing the body with an oil. that expressed from the fruit of a tree that is like thepalm. This oil is of a disagreeable smell, but has the salutary property qs flopping the pores of the skin, and cheeking-:the sweats which the heat of the climate would-render ex effie, especially during three months. of the year, in which a dreadful calm hangs over these countries. If a similar method were tried at Cartagena, perhaps the le prosy might be restrained or even totally abolished. We know that those that are attacked with this disease, per spire no longer, and that their skin is hard and scaly.,Would
Would it be repugnant to the principles of found B 0 0 K,V1n. philosophy, ,to attribute it to too copious a perlpi- V ration, which impoverishes the fibres of the skin, and renders 'them incapable of performing their functions. The use of an oil or grease fit to diminish this excessive per aspiration, and at the same time prevents its total sup pression, seems to be the method indicated by nature to prevent the calamity we are now speaking of. NOTWITHSTANDING this distemper, notwithstanding the badness of the climate, notwithstanding many other inconveniencies, Spain hath always shewed a great pre direction for Cartagena on account of its harbour, one of the best that is-known. It is two leagues in ex tent, and has a deep and excellent bottom. There is less agitation there, than on the most calm river. The passage to it formerly was solely by the canal of Bocca Chica. This was so narrow, that only one vessel could pass, being defended by the cross batteries of forts erected on both sides of it. The English in 1741 having destroyed the fortifications that defended) this passage, it was shut by the Spaniards. An antient canal was opened, which was deposed in such a manner, that it will not be easy for an enemy's squadron to force it. This is the way by which all vessels now enter into the harbour. . AT the time that the trade of Peru was carried on by the galleons, these vesSels failed to Cartagena before they vent to Porto Bello, and visited it again on their return. In the first voyage, they deposited merchandises that was necessary for the interior provinces, and received the price of it in the second. This arrangement displeased the merchants of Lima, who pretended that when they came back from the fair, they found all their country provided with the same things which they had been to fetch at a great distance. They petitioners 3 and
B o O - and they obtained that Cartagena should not be flocked" . till after Porto Bello.,BY this restriction the provinces of Santa Fe, Popayan and Quito, were reduced, either to draw at a great ex pence and with great hazard what they wanted from the fair itself, cr to content themselves with the restive of it. This arrangement, which continued several years, was extremely displeasing to them. They devised in 173C a conciliating scheme, which seemed proper to reconcile the differences. It was agreed that things should be rc-efca- lifted on the old footing, but that at the arrival of the galleons, the traffic of European goods should cease between the two vice-royalties. Spain had not yet made sufficient progress in the knowledge of political economy to be sensible how far such a regulation was con rrary to her interest. THE aa of flopping the galleons made no change in this contra. The vessels which successively came to Cartagena to supply New Grenada with provisions, do not 'annually carry away above five millions'. Those who know that there is more than double this sum coined in the mint of Santa Fe, the only money that exists in the country since that of Popayan was suppressed, and who cannot also be ignorant that all the gold which the mines produce cannot possibly be coined there, will be amazed at the smallness of these returns. Their surprize will cease, if they will but consider the quantity of gold that is fraudulently ex ported. Smuggling is carried on in several places on the coast. The riches of Chaco are chiefly conveyed sway by the river of Atrato, which falls into the gulf of Darien, and those of Popayan by the different mouths of the Magdalena, which it is impossible to guard. Spain will never succeed in breaking there smuggling connections, unless she abandons her old maxims. A,* No quite 9o,c ;l.,more
more rational system would not only retain ii, her hands B o o K the treasures the has lost, but would also give a new lL value to the only lands of the viceroyalty that are cultivated with emolument to the metropolis. BETWEEN the rivers of Magdalena and Oroonoko is Remarks a long series of coasts which occupy an immense space. counties There were discovered in I499 by Ojeda, John de la casas, vitiated bc-,tnvcen 'lie and Americus Vesuvius, who landed with four hips at a res Mag place which they called Venezuela, from the refers galena, and,the Ordonnance it appeared to them to have with Venice. The novo. settlements which these adventurers and their followers attempted on the continent, were not formed with the same ease as thole in the islands. 'The savages, who were accustomed to make war upon one another, refitted them with an opposition that was sometimes pretty obstinate At last there small detached nations, which by their natural disposition or their slate of war had rarely any fixed abode, took the resolution either of removing themselves far back into the inland, countries or submit ting. A CONSIDERABLE number of finally towns were then built, the most famous of which were Cumana, Ca raccas, Verona, Corn, Maracaybo, and Saint Martha. The territory of some of these exhibited mines of gold, which at first were worked. Their produce in the be ginning was pretty considerable, but this success was only transitory ; whether this arose from there being little gold in them, or, as is most probable, because most of them were only branches that had been al ready discovered. It soon became necessary to abandon them. In the settlements that were destitute of mines, the Spaniards, thirsting after gold and blood, went into the internal parts of the country to massacre the Indians, or wrest from them what they had treasured of that valuable sand in their rivers, in order to compose various ornaments from it. The lasts resource
S o o o resource of there madmen was to make. flames, in ord' f1 i-to export them into the islands, that their:barbarity had depopulated. LA CASAS was incensed at this horrible conduct. In ice, he proposed a colony for this coast, on which no one should be able to fettle but with his consent. His colonists were to be clothed in such a manner as to snake it believed that they did not belong to the nation which had rendered itself so odious. Their apparel was to be white, with a cross of the same colour, arid nearly the figure of that of Calatrava. He assured them, that-with these kind of knights, and with missionaries in. strutted by him, he would prove successful without was, violence, and slavery, in civilizing the-savages, establishing good methods of cultivation, and even working the mines they should discover. His ambition was con fined to obtaining for his expence the twelfth of .wbt the government should draw from-the-countries.whofe felicity he thus anxiously studied this plan was too favourable to humanity not to be rejected. The ambitious who govern states and nations, consume them as a commodity, and treaters chimerical every thing that tends to render tien better and happier. Charles V. mortgaged the province of Venezuela, situated in the midst of the coast we are now speaking s, to the family of the Wethers. These rich merchants of Augsburg in 1528, sent thither four hundred and. four. f noe - Germans, whose avarice and ferocity surpassed every thing that had before appeared in the new world. History accuses them of having massacred or caused xt.bs destroyed a million of Indians. Their tyranny ended an horrible catastrophe, and they did not think of replacing them. They were obliged to look upon it as an happiness, that the country which they had laid wage should return-under the Spanish dominion. -; WFOiRTUNATELY the scenes of horror which the germans had exhibited, were renewed by Carnival, who,was
¶v:s appointed to the government of this unhappy count 0 0 K try. This monster, it is true, lost his head on a fcaf- vn . sold ; but the punishment did not recall from the grave the viAims he had lent thither. The depopulation was so complete, that in 1550 a great number of negroes were imported from Africa, on whom the hopes of an unbounded prosperity were founded. The habit of tyranny made them treat these slaves with such severity that they revolted. Their rebellions.furnifhed a pretext for massacring all the males; and this colony once more became a desert in which the ashes of negroes, Spa-poniards, Indians, and Germans were mixed. Venezuela sell again into that total oblivion which also in solved the provinces that are in the vicinity of the Oroonoko and the Magdalena, though the extent, ex excellence, and variety of their soil might have invited the metropolis to derive several productions from them, and for the most part very rich ones. Only the center of this prodigious coast is employed in cultivating cocoa. '" THE cocoa tree is of a middling size, and is propagated from feeds, which are sown at particular distances. When it begins to shoot, it divides into three, four, five or fix trunks, according to the vigour of the root. In proportion as it grows, its branches, which are always very far from one another, bend towards the earth. Its leaves, which are long and smooth, have an agreeable smell, terminate in a point, and would re semble, if they were glossy, those of the orange tree. From the flock, as well as from the branches, rises a jonquil flower, the pistil of which contains the hulk which incloses the fruit. This hulk which is of the figure of a melon, that is pointed and divided into sides that are strongly marked, grows to the length of about fix or seven inches, and the breadth of four or five, and incloses between twenty or thirty small 'almonds.' It is green during its growth, then it turns' yellow, which*. ; i
B o o g is a proof that its fruit begins to have some confidences * ,As soon as it acquires the colour of deep musk, it mull bespattered, and dried immediately. Every feed of the cocoa is found inclosed in the divisions of the mem cranes of the hulk. Two crops are made annually, which are equal in quality and quantity.,THS cocoa tree, which begins to reward the labour of the cultivator at the end of two or three years, requires a moil ground. If it wants water, it produces no fruit, withers and dies. A shade to shelter it continually from the heat of the fun, is not le's necessary to it. It ought to be surrounded with strong trees, that under the Shelter of them it may flourish. The culture it fur ther requires is neither laborious, nor expensive. It is sufficient to extirpate the grass around it, which would deprive it of its nourishment though the cocoa tree is successfully cultivated in several countries of America, and even grows naturally in others, it succeeds in no part of it o v.ell as on the coast we are describing. All the parts of America ga ther a little, but it only becomes an important object on the territory of Caraccas. They reckon that the crop of this valuable fruit is more than an hundred thousand fancies of an hundred and ten pounds each. The country of Santa Fe consumes twenty thousand; Mexico a little more; the Canaries a small cargo, and Europe from between fifty to sixty thousand. The cultivation of this employs ten or twelve thousand negroes, Such of them who in process of time have obtained their li betty, have built the little town of Nerva, where they will not admit any white people the commerce of Caraccas, to which the bay of Guaira, at two leagues from it, serves for a harbour, was a long time open to all the subjects of the Spanish monarchy, and is so sill to the Americans. The Eu romans are not so well treated. In 1728, there was,5 - formed
formed by Saint Sebastian a company, which obtained B 0 O0 K an exclusive right of maintaining connections with this , v part of the new world. Four or five ships, which they dispatch every year, fail from the place of their origin, but their return is at Cadiz. The fanega of cocoa, which f.ldcm in the colony costs more than 35 lirrcs r, which are paid in merchandise, is delivered in Spain at the f.::cd price of 199 livres ". There is no rate agreed on for the little cotton, indigo, and leather, which come from this part of the new world. WHENs we consider that this is all the produce of a coast which is nine hundred leagues long, and twenty, thirty, and forty deep, in a soil very often highly susceptible of cultivation; it is very difficult not to be seized with astonishment mingled with indignation. Let Spain take effectual measures to make labour honourable; and the many plunderers, who wretchedly subsist on smug going at Saint Martha, on the river de la Hacha, and in other places, will turn cultivators. To this spirit of destruction, which has hitherto been the basis of her policy, let her substitute the principles of moderation and humanity, and one shall then behold the Motions, the Guajaros, and all the savages that surround her back settlements, or who intercept their communication, hasten to form connexions, which will become necessarily and reciprocally dutiful. Then the provinces, that are situated between Magdalena and Oroonoko will rise to that splendor, to which nature herself invites them. They will excel in rich and various productions a great number of colonies, whose fertility has been ce serrated for so long a time. These great objects are so evident, that it would be useless to enlarge on them. WVe shall now proceed to speak of Chili.,It 1. ic. 7d i. * About S1. 14s.,BOOK
B O O K VIII. Conquest of Chili and Paraguay by the Spaniard. Principles on which Spain manages her colonies. BOO K HE country known by the name of Chili, it,vb. JL bounded on the east by immense deserts, that reach Means by as far as Paraguay. To the weft, it extends along the Sphcah te South Sea, from the frontiers of Peru to the freights of matthew Magellan. The Incas had prevailed upon great part of In of this spacious region to submit to their wise laws, and hits intended to subdue the whole, but they met with insuperable difficuities.,THIS important project was resumed by the Spa niards, as soon as they had conquered the principal pro vices of Peru. In the beginning of i535iAlmagro set out from Cusco, and passed the Cordeleras; and though he had lost a great part of the soldiers who at tended him in his expedition, he was received with the most perse submission by the nations that ,had been formerly under the dominion of the throne that had jul been subverted. The terror of his arms would, probably, have procured him greater advantages, had not fore private concerns brought him back to the center of the empire, where he ended his days in an unfortunate manner the Spaniards appeared again in Chili in 1541. Baldivia, their leader, entered it without the least opposition The inhabitants were gathering in their crops; but as soon as harvest was over, they took up arms,,and
and never laid them down for ten years. Some diff o o K tries indeed, discouraged by the continual losses they L, sustained, at length submitted, but the reit resolutely fought for their liberty, though they were almost always defeated. AN Indian captain, whose age and infirmities would not permit him to stir out of his hut, was continually told of these misfortunes. The grief of seeing his people constantly beaten by a handful of strangers, inspired him with courage. He formed thirteen companies of a thou sand men each, which he led against the enemy. They marched one after another, and he ordered that if.the first company was routed, it should not fall back upon. the next, but rally and be supported by it. This order, which was punctually obeyed, disconcerted the Spa niards.' They forced all the companies one after an other, without gaining any advantage. As' both men and horses wanted rest, Baldivia retreated towards a de file, where he saw they could easily defend themselves; but the Indians did not give him time to get thither. Their rear marched through bye-ways, and took posses sion of the defile, whilst the vanguard followed him: so cautiously, that he was surrounded and massacred, 'to gethei with his hundred and fifty men. It is laid that the savages poured melted gold down his throat, fay ing, 'lit thyself with that metal thou art Jo fond of. TtAE' availed themselves of this victory, to burn and destroy many of the European settlements, and they *would all have hated the same fate, but for the timely a iffiantee of some troops sent from Peru, which enabled them to defend their best fortified poRts. They extended themselves a little after this, but never got an inch of ground without fighting for it. Of all the countries in America which the Spaniards have' attempted to subdue, this is that where they have always found, and'ffill find the greatest refinance.,5 THEIR
B o O K THEIR most irreconcilable enemies are the inliabi-,tants of Arauco and Tucapel, those to the south of the river Bobio, or who extend towards the Cordeleras. Their manners, which resemble more those of the fa wages of North America, than of the Peruvians their neighbours, render them consequently more formidable. When they go to war, they carry nothing with them, and want neither tents, nor baggage. The same trees from which they gather their food, supply them with lances and darts. As they are sure of finding in one place what they had in another, they willingly refer any country which they are uncle to defend. Ail places arc alike to them. Their troops being free from all in cumbrance of pros visions and ammunition, move from one place to another with surprising agility. They expose their lives like men who set no value upon them; and if they lose their field of battle, they find magazines and en comments wherever there is ground covered with fruits. They sometimes invite their neighbours to join them to attack the common enemy, and this they call running the arrow, because this call flies as swiftly and silently as an arrow from one habitation to another. A mere trifle will kindle a war. A drunken fellow wantonly calls to arms, all take fire, chuse a chief, and pro need to action. They fix upon a time for commencing hostilities, and in the dead of night, fall upon the next village where there are Spaniards, and from thence pro need to others. They murder all the inhabitants, ex kept the white women, whom they never fail to carry off. This is the true origin of the many white and fair Indians. BEFORE the enemy has time to collect his forces, they all join. Their army, though more formidable from their numbers than from their discipline, boldly ruffles upon the best fortified ports. This fury often succeeds, because they are so constantly reinforced, that,they
they are not sensible of their losses. If these are very B o o K considerable, they retire to the distance of a few leagues, vIn. and five or fix days after, they fall upon some other place. Those barbarians never think they are beaten, unless they are surrounded. If they can but get to a place of difficult access, they think they are conquerors. The head of one Spaniard, which they carry off in tri umph, comforts them for the death of a hundred Indians. Such a people must conquer. THE country is of such vast extent, that when they are pressed too close, they forsake their possessions, and remove into some impenetrable forest. Recruited by other Indians, they soon return into the parts they had before inhabited; and it is this mixture of flight and re finance, of boldness and fear, that makes them unconquerable WAR is to them a kind of amusement. As it puts them to no expence or trouble, they care not how long it lasts; and they make it a rule never to sue for peace. The pride of Spain must always stoop to make the first overtures. When these are favourably received, r. con terence is held. The governor of Chili and the Indian general, attended by the most distinguished captains on both sides, fettle the terms of accommodation, at a con vivian meeting. The pacification always coils the Spa niards some presents, and after a thousand fruitless at tempts, they have been forced to give up all thoughts of extending their conquests, and reduced to cover their frontiers by erecting forts at proper distances. These precautions are taken to prevent the Indians who have submitted, from joining the independent savages, and likewise to repel the inroads of the latter into the co ionics. THESE colonies are dispersed on the borders of the Present South Sea; they are parted from Peru by a desert that tteot'the measures eighty leagues, and bounded by the island of t Chili.,Chiloe
B o o K Chloe on the end next the straights of Magellan. On,Vo . that great length of coast, there are no settlements but Bal-,divia, Conception island, Valparaiso and Coquimbo or La Serena, which are all sea-ports. In the inland country is St. Jago, the capital of the colony. There is no cul ture nor habitation at any distance from these towns. The buildings art all very low, made of unburnt brick, and mostly thatched. This is done on account of the - frequent earthquakes, and suits very well the indolence of the inhabitants they are flout and proper men, but few in number. In all that large settlement, there are not 20,000 white men, and not more than 60,coo negroes or Indians, able to bear arms. The military amounted formerly to 2000 men; but the maintaining of them was found too expensive, and they were reduced to 500 towards the beginning of the century. This reduction has made no alteration in the tranquillity of the colony, because there Indians pay no poll tax, and are treated with more hu. sanity than in the other conquered provinces. They To bravely defended their liberty, that they obtained better terms when they came to surrender; and the capitula tion has never been broken, for fear they should join with the independent nations in the neighbourhood.,IF Chili is a wilderness, it is not owing to' the climate which is one of the wholfomeft in the world. The vicinity of the Cordeleras gives it such a delightful temperature, as could not otherwise be expected in that latitude. There is not a more pleafanrprdvince in all the mother countryside richness of its gold mines has been too much ex tolled. Their united produce never exceeds five mil lions · a year. The gold was formerly brought over in bullion; but ever since the year 1749, it is coined in the mint set up at St. Jago. The excellent copper,»,7Sinol.e,mines
innes of Coquimbo supply the whole kingdom oPs Bo Ok Peru. : A TRUER kind of wealth, though less pleating to the possessors, is the prodigious fertility of the soil. All the European fruits have improved in that happy. eli mate. The wine would be exquisite, if nature was fe corded by art. . The corn harvest is reckoned a bad one; when it does. not yjAd a hundred fold.,YWITH all these advantages, Chili has no dire inter connect course with the mother country. Their whole trade is till"' of,Chili wmrh with Peru, Paraguay,.and the savages on their own tlienl;ans, frontiers.,arnd with TH:r.Y barter,tbhei worst and cheapest goods with Paraguay there barbarians for.Qxen, horses, and their own children whom they are ready to part with for the most tri Biii'-lthnhgs . . . THqtuGH they ae passionately fond of these baubles wlhn they see them;, they never think of them *ihenl they are out of fight nor will they tir out of their woods anle.deerts' to procure them; for the Spaniard muff bring them out to tempt them. A Spaniard who in tends to undertake. this trade, firs applies to the heads of aiis;lso in whom' alone resides-all public authority, Wth ie has obtained leave to sell, he goes from house to house, and leases : his goods with all who alk. for them without.diftindian. When he has dispossess all, hee give .notice that he is going away, and every . on of' th b y.ers brings hin the effects agreed upon, to the Village where he first made his appearance. They have never been known to be guilty of the least imposition They give himna guard, who help him to drive 'he cattle, a during home the slaves hellas received in yavmentr, and see him fare to his own frontier. Tilt .he year 1724, they sold wine and spirituous liquors to thee .people, who, like mote other savages, Ire excessively fond of them. In their drunken fits, Vol., I A a they
B O o K they would take up arms, and murder all the Spaniards VDL. they met with; would suddenly attack the forts, and ravage the country near their dwellings. These mischiefs were so often repeated, that at last this dangerous trade was trimly prohibited. The good effects of the prohibition are daily felt. The commotions of there people are less frequent and less dangerous, and their peaceable behaviour has brought on a visible increase of intercourse with them; but it is not likely it should ever be so great as that with Peru. CHILI supplies Peru with great plenty of hides, dried fruit, copper, salt meat, horses, hemp, lard, wheat and gold. In exchange for these articles, Peru sends to banco, sugar, cocoa, earthen ware, woollen cloth, linen, hats made at Quito, and all articles of luxury from Europe. The ships sent from Callao on this traffic formerly came to Conception Bay, but now to Valparaiso. The voyage was at first so tedious, that a whole year was allowed for the returns to come in. They never ventured to lose fight of land, and followed all the windings of the coast. An European pilot, who had observed the winds, performed that navigation in one month. They considered him as a magician, and he was taken up by order of the inquisition, whose ignorance is ridiculous, when its rage is not an objet of detection. His journal was his vindication; and it plainly appeared that to do the like, nothing more was requisite than to keep clear of the coasts. His method was therefore universally adopted. THE colony of Chili proceeds upon a very different plan in their dealings with that of Paraguay. Their in intercourse is not carried on by sea. They would be under a necci.ty either of passing the freights of Magellan or doubling Cape Horn, neither of which the Spaniards ever do without an absolute necessary. They find it safer, and even cheaper, to go by land, though it is three,hundred
hundred leagues from St. Jago to Buenos Ayres, and n o o K that they must travel forty leagues through the snows VII. and precipices of the Cordeleras, CHILI sends to Paraguay a fort of woollen stuffs called pinches, which are used for cloaks. They send wines, brandy, oil, and chiefly gold; and bring home wax, a kind of tallow fit to make soap, the herb of Paraguay, European goods, and as many negroes as they can get at Buenos Ayres. Those negroes that come from Panama arc partly dcl:ioyed by a long navigation and frequent change of climate, are purchased at a higher price, and are not so robust. CHILI is a state quite distinct' from Peru, and is go versed by a chief who is absolute in all political, civil, and military affairs, and independent on the viceroy, who has no authority but that of appointing a governor provisionally on the death of the former, till the mother country shall name a fuccelbfr. If on some occasions he has interfered in the administration of Chili, he was authorized to a& by a particular trust reposed in him by the court, by the deference paid to the emi;;ncc of his office, and by that ambition which naturally prompts men in power to extend their authority. Paraguay en joys the same independence. PARAGUAY is bounded on the north by the river of SC;;T:.: the Amazons, to the south by the country bordering on oi-r:', the streights of Magellan, on the east by the Brazils, l'a;a;u:. and on the weft by Chili and Peru. It derives its name from a large river that comes down from the :ake X:- rays, and runs nearly from north to louth, and after many windings through an immense space, falls into the Tea about the 35th degree of south latitude. THIS region, which is about 500 leagues long and 3Co broad, exhibits great varieties. It contains vast forests, long ridges of mountains, low lends that are under water great part of the year, and morasses that constantly a 2 corrupt
B o o K corrupt the air by their stagnating waters. The roving VlsI.,nations who inhabit these deserts are all more or less of an olive complexion, above the middle size, and flat faced. The men and children commonly go naked, especially in the hot countries and the women wear hardly any covering. All travellers agree in giving a very bad account of these people. They all represent them as very stupid, fickle, perfidious, and voracious, much ad dieted to drunkenness, incapable of forecast, and ex pensively indolent and cowardly. If on some occasions they have shewn a kind of fury, they were driven to it by the desire of plunder or revenge they live upon hunting, fishing, wild fruits, ho ney which is found in plenty in the forests, and roots that grow spontaneous. Some few eat maize and caf fada. The Indians often shift their dwellings, in hopes of finding greater plenty of food. As they have no thing to remove but a few earthen vessels, these emigrations are extremely easy; and they can find boughs to build their huts in every place. Though every one thinks himself free, and though they live in a state of absolute independence, yet the necessity of mutual defence has obliged them to form themselves into a kind of society. Some I;nlimtc join together, under the direction of a i-.jder of their own chufmg. These associations, 'which are more or lets numerous, in proportion to the reputation and abilities of their chief, are as easily diffllved,ts zorlmcd. THE discovery of the river Paraguay, since called Rio de la Plata, was made in 1516, by Dial de Solis noted pilot of Castile. He and most of his men were put to death by the natives, who, some years after, treated the Portuguese of Brazil in the same manners their threatening to enslave them. '1 HE two rival nations, equally afraid of these savages, lost fight of Paraguay, and turned their avaricious views,another
another way. The Spaniards accidentally returned there B 0 o K in 1526. VIII. SEBASTIAN CABOT, who in 1496 had discovered Newfoundland for England, finding that kingdom was too much taken up with domestic affairs to think of making settlements in a new world, offered his services to Spain, where his reputation procured him the ap ointment to a brilliant expedition. THE Factory, famous for being the first flip that ever went round the world, the only one of Magellan's squadron that returned to Europe, had brought a great quantity of spices from the Moluccas. The great profit that was made upon this sale, occasioned a second expedition and the command was given to Cabot. In pur suing the track of the former voyage, he arrived at the mouth of the Plata. Whether he was in want of pro visions for going on, or whether, which is more pro able, his men began to be mutinous, he flopped there. He failed up the river, and built a fortress at the en trance of the river Riotercero, which comes down from the mountains of Tucuman. Every subsequent event is recorded in the Spanish histories with Come marvellous story. To evince the falsehood of them, we shall only relate them in their own tfyle and manner. Nuns de Lara was appointed to take care of the first bulwark, erected on the happy banks of the Paraguay, to put into the hands of the Spaniards all the riches of a world destined by heaven, for the people of all Christen dom the moR faithful to God. If the governor had been furnished only with as many soldiers as there were nations to fight or to drive away, he would have trusted the conquest of Paraguay to Spanish valour that had been finalized by so many victories. But they had given him but a hundred and twenty men to oppose such innumerable people. He, therefore, thought it ad miserable to secure his situation by an alliance with the Timbuez, a nation bordering on his governments a 3 Angora,
B O O K Angora, their cacique, was charmed with the character y U of Nuns, and accepted proposals which were to honoured distinguish him from tih.t multitude of savages who were defined to be one day the flares of that na tion, who was the mistress of the new world. The Spaniard recede him with kindness. But let us ad mire the power of love, who not content with triumph ing over gods and heroes, delights in subduing the fierceness us barbarous nations. His quiver has surer and more deadly arrows than the poisoned darts of the Indian.,THE cacique was inflamed with love at the fight of a lac, whose name was Lucia Miranda, the wise of the invincible captain Sebastian Hurtado. From that moment he grew quite furious, and felt that it would be in vain for America to pretend to refill a na tion, each of whose soldiers destroyed whole armies, and each of whose women could lay all their chiefs at her feet. He ventured to confess his defeat to her who did not condescend perceive it. But, to decoy a prey which he had no hopes of carrying off by force, he laid a snare to the ambition of Hurtado. He invited him to come with Miranda and receive the homage of his whole nation, giving him to underhand that a beauty born to triumph in both worlds, would for ever bind such of the Timbuez to the alliance with Spain, as might question the superiority of so renowned a people, when they should see in what fountain of heroism the Europeans drew that courage which fo-eaily made them masters of the earth: for the same of the Spanish conquests had flown from one tropic to the other, on the wings of ter or more powerful, and more rapid, than those of vic torr.,HURETADO, who had been informed by his chaste wise, of the cacique's fatal pelion, thought he ought in compassion, to elude an attachment which he must,otherwise
otherwise have washed away with the blood of that un B o o K fortunate man. He answered him, that no European Vil. soldier would dare to quit his camp or his garrison, with out leave of the general or governor, nor could ask such a favour without disgrace, unless it were to fight and conquer. The cacique, enlightened by love, who blinds only happy lovers, saw plainly that the Spaniard was sporting with his passion; and as he found he could never be happy but by the death of his rival, he resolved to get rid of him. It was to be done by treachery. Ijurtado could fear none but cowards. THE cacique was informed that Hurtado was gone out of the garrison with fifty of his invincible fol tiers, to fetch provisions at the risque of their lives. The garrison was exceedingly weakened by the absence of that captain. Angora quickly collected a body of four thousand Indians, and concealed them, well atoned, in a covered morass near the citadel. Then march ing to the gates, with thirty of his men loaded with pro visions, he sends word to Lara, that having been informed that the Spaniards, his friends, were in want of provisions he had hastened to offer them some, till the convoy should come back with a fresh supply. The generosity qs the general could never fufpea any snares of perfidy in the presents and voluntary offers of an ally. Lara received the cacique with the sincerest testimonies of gratitude, and treated him and his company with what foreign European provisions he was able to add to the natural fare of the country. They made a feast with this variety of provisions, and from the intoxication of debauchery they were surprized by sleep, and were all destroyed. THE cacique had before apprized his escort and his am brocaded troop with his intent. All was foreseen and concerted to execute the basest f treacheries. The Spa niards were scarce fallen asleep, when the light of thea a 4 flames
B 0,0 K fames-that were devouring the magazine gave notice to v'a . the Timbuez to march up to the sacking of the place the soldiers who were to guard it, half awakened by the noise and light of the conflagration, ran, still drunk, to extinguish it. During this confusion, the authors of the plot open the gates to their companions, and all to gather, with their daggers in their hands, sell upon the Spaniards, who could neither escape the fire nor the sword. Lara, mortally wounded, thought less of pul ling the arrow out of his own Side than of plunging his sword into the heart of Angora. The cacique an he sell together, tearing one another to pieces; and they both expired, thus mingling the blood of a Spa niird wrth that of a savage; a circumstance that could have ip henri but in their mutual deftruetion.,ALL that was left in the place was four women and four children with Miranda, the innocent and ill fated cause of so tragical a scene. Those sad victims were carried to Siripa, the brother and successor of the perfidious cacique. The love of the latter pasSed into his brother's heart, like a fire rekindled from his ashes. Like the fun himself who lines on the rich banks of the Paraguay, Miranda could not shew herself, without inflaming all who beheld her. But she con s.yed into the fouls, sometimes the rage of despair, and foite:ir.cs the host weakness of submission and en treat;. iripn threw himself at her feet, and declared that file was not only free, but that [he should reign over the chief and the people, which her charms would have subdued to Spain more effectually than the arms of a victorious nation. How could she still, added he, not forget an unfortunate husband, fallen no doubt under the arrows of the Indian conspirators. XMJLRANDA, fill more offended at the love of the new cacique, than The had been insensible to that of his bro ther, answered him with marks of contempt and insult, Preferring death rather than a crown from the hand of savage.
savage. Hall he crossed the seas with her husband; to Bn'O' it forsake an. betray him in a world where the European <*. women ought to :'.: :he example of virtue, as the into did that of bravery ? But Siripa, having no idea of a fidelity which appeared to him as extraordinary as the' hlerPcl of the Spaniards, thought that time would wear off those sentiments in a sex not made for a long resistance or that at least so nruch pride could not be con queried but by gentleness. In ,ain did Miranda obfti- hatchet repulse the attentions of the cacique; he opposed niitilin, but kindness and respect to the constancy of her denials. IN the mean time Hurtado, returning from his expedition found nothing but a heap of bloody ashes ort the spot where he had left a citadel. His eyes fought Miranda every where, without discovering so much as the shadow or the footsteps of that faithful wise. At lair he heard that (he was amongst the perfidious Indians, who in one night had perpetrated so many crimes. No danger could deter him from going to rescue Miranda from her ravishers. His presence kindled all the fury of jealousy in the foul of the cacique. He immediately ordered the death of that Spaniard, whose presence was odious to him on so many accounts. Miranda disarmed the heart of this barbarian, and obtained a repeal of the sentence pronounced against her husband. She even obtained leave to see him sometimes; but on con edition that if they dared to listen to love, and give way to its transports, the first moment of their felicity should be the last of their lives. A prohibition infinitely more cruel than that which the king of the infernal regions imposed upon the hapless Orpheus ! How can a man possess a lovely wise, and not see her ? How can he see her long, and not once enjoy her embraces ? What could Siripaexpect fresh the torment which he had con denned that couple? Love is strengthened by voluntary,self-
O o K sets-denial, but cannot bear compulsion. Prohibition-vel. quickens desire, danger increases its boldness, and even death invites to taste of life. After passing many days in comforting one another in their slavery, and bathing in those tears which are attracted, dried up, and in defiantly renewed in the tender endearments of virtuous and perfected love, they both dared to wish for one of those delightful moments which redeem whole years of-sufferings. After seeing one another a hundred times, always promising and always refusing, in hopes of meet ing again to keep the oaths of hymen; at last love, stronger than chains, tyrants and death, demanded that sweet tribute which virtue offers as a homage to heaven in the arms of conjugal fidelity. They at lacs enjoyed that pleasure which the angels bless around the nuptial bed, covering their faces with their wings, left they hould envy men a happiness that is unknown in para dise. One day the barbarous Siripa found Hurtado in the arms of Miranda. He instantly condemned them, and they were both dragged from the nuptial bed to the flake, where they ended their lives by a lingering death, within fight of each other, amidst the sighs qs everlasting love.,hVI.ILST this scene was acting, Mofchera, now be come the chief of the few remaining Spaniards, em barked with his little company on board a vessel that lay at anchor. By this retreat, Paraguay was totally delivered from the nation that had threatened its liberty. This tranquillity was of short duration. Some more considerable forces appeared on the river in 1535, and laid the foundation of Buenos Ayres. The new colony soon wanted provisions. All who ventured out to-fetch them were murdered by the savages ; and they were forced to forbid, upon pain of death, any one going beyond the limits of the new settlements Woman
A WOMAN whom hunger had undoubtedly hardened B ,o o K against the fear of death, chided the vigilance of the , . guards who were posted round the colony, to preserve it from the dangers it was exposed to in consequence of the famine. Maldonata, this was the name of the fu fugitive, having wandered about for some time in unknown and unfrequented roads, entered a cave to take some rest. There, to her great triror, The found a lioness, and to her great astonishment, she beheld the formidable beast making up to her, half trembling, and then stroking her and licking her hands with piteous cries, fitter to inspire compassion than fear. The Spanish woman soon found that the lioness was with whelp, and that her groans were the accents of a mother who calls for help to get rid of her burden. Maldonata took courage and assisted nature in that painful moment, when she seems reluctantly to give light to all beings, and that life they are to enjoy fur so short a space. The lioness being safely delivered, the soon went out to fetch a plentiful provision, and laid it at the feet of her be nefa&refs. She daily shared it with the little whelps,,'ho,- born by her assistance, and bred up with her, seised by their wanton frolics and innocent bites to ac knowledge an obligation, which their dam repaid with the tendered assiduities. But when they grew bigger, and nature gave them inftinA to seek their own prey, and strength to seize and devour it, the family dispersed in rise woods; and the lioness, who was no longer called to the cave by maternal tenderness, disappeared likewise to roam about the forest, which her hunger daily depopulated MALDONATA, alone and without sustenance, was forced to quit a cavern which was the terror of so many living creatures, but which her pity had made a place of safety for her. That woman now felt with sorrow the want of a society, that had been so useful to her: The didst
B O- oK no; wander long, before she sell into the hands of the v ,7 savages. A lioness had fed her, and men made her shave. Soon after, the was retaken by the Spaniards, who brought her back to Buenos Ayres. The com mandant, more savage than the lions or the wild In diana, did not think her sufficiently punished for her fight by all the dangers and miseries she had endured: the barbarian commanded that (he should be tied to a tree in the middle of a wood, and there left to starve, or be devoured by monsters. Two days after, some soldiers went to see what was become of the unhappy victim. They found her alive, surrounded with hungry tygers, who gaping after their prey, dull not come near her, for fear of a lioness who lay at her feet with her whelps. That fight struck the soldiers motionless with pity and terror. When the lioness saw them, the withdrew from the tree, as if to make room for them to unbind her benefactress: hut when they took her away, the animal followed gently, to confirm, by her caresses and soft murmurs, the won ders of gratitude which the woman was relating to her deliverers. The lioness with her whelps for some time followed her footsteps, shewing all the signs of unfeigned sorrow that a disconsolate family express when they at tend a beloved father or fun, who is going to embark for America, from whence he may never return home. Th commandant, informed of the whole adventure by his soldiers, and reformed by a monsieur of the woods to thole feelings of humanity which his savage heart had doubtless put off in crowing the seas, suffered a woman to hive, who had been so visibly protected by heaven.,Ie.IAN while the Indians, who sill hovered round the Spanifl colony, with an intent to flirve it, hemmed it in more and more within the pallisadoes. Returning to Europe seemed to be the only remedy for such great evil; but the Spaniards were prepossessed with the no-,tion
tion that that the inland country was full of mines, and B o o t this belief kept up their constancy. They abandoned, v Buenos Ayres, and went and founded the island of As gumption, three hundred leagues up the country, but dill on the banks of the river. This was visibly removing further from the assistance of the mother country, but in their opinion, it was getting nearer the fountain of riches; and their greediness was greater still than their foresight. THE wild inhabitants of a country that lay nearer the tropic, were less courageous than those of Buenos Ayres, and more easily civilized. Far from molesting the Spa niards, they supplied them with provisions. This behaviour gave room to hope that it might be possible to secure their friendship, if they could be brought over to christianity and they thought the the most effectual method to do this, was, to give them a high opinion of that religion. To this purpose they contrived a procession for the holidays in which, after the custom of the mother country, all the colonists were to appear with their shoulders bare, and the infrurumts of flagellation in their hands. The In diana were invited to this horrid farce, not unlike the fa fanaticism of the Corybantes, and fitter to inspire an ab abhorrence for christianity than to recommend it. They flocked to this barbarous ceremony, to the number of eight thousand men armed with their bows and arrows, which they never left behind, fully determined to drown these strangers in their own blood, since a religion that taught them to Shed it, muff certainly make them fa wage and. cruel. THE moment that the catastrophe was drawing near, Italy was informed by an Indian servant of so unexpected a plot. That Spanifh general gave out that the Copies, enemies to the whole country, were ad dancing to attack the place. He commanded all his troops to take up arms and called the Indian chiefs together,
B O o Kc together, to deliberate on the common danger that,X AL X threatened their nation and his own. As soon as therein were in the power of the Spaniards; Italy put them to death, and threatened the Indians who haa attended them with the same fate. The unhappy wretches sell on their knew, and only obtained their pardon on swearing eternal and unlimited obedience, for themselves and their whole nation. The reconciliation was sealed by the marriage of some Indian women with Spaniards. a ceremony far more pleasing to heaven and earth, than that scourging procession that was to have ended in a massacre. From the union of two such different nations, sprang the race of the Esteem, now so com mon in South America. Thus it is the fate of the Spa niards, in all parts of the world, to be a mixed race. That of the moors still flows in their veins in Europe, and that of the savages in America. Perhaps, they arc no losers by this mixture, if it is true that men, as well as animals, are the better for crossing the breed. And would to God they were all confounded in one race, and that there were no such thing as national antipathy which only serves to perpetuate wars and all the destructive paffrons.,BUT discord will arise between brothers, how can we therefore expel that all mankind (hold become one family, when the children of this family still thrift for each other's blood, and whilst this cruet thirst is excited wand kept up by that of gold ?sit was this shameful passion, this cruel greediness, which induced the Spaniards to keep fill further from the sea, and nearer the mountains; nor did they grow wiser or more humane, by the danger they had ex posed themselves to by advancing so far into the country of being all dcfltoyed by the savages. They seemed, by the cruelties they exercised Upon the Indians to.punilh them for their own obstinacy in look-,1 urging
for gold were there was none. Several ships which B o o K were bringing them troops and ammunition, were lost VIL. by venturing too far up the river, and all on board perished yet even this could not reclaim them, and it was but in consequence of repeated orders from the mo ther country that they restored Buenos Ayres. This necessary undertaking was now become easy. The Spa niards, who had multiplied in Paraguay, were strong enough to restrain or destroy the nations that might op pose them. They accordingly met with no great difficulty Juan Orriz de Zarate executed it in 158o, and rebuilt Buenos Ayres upon the old spot, which had been forsaken for forty years. The petty nations that lived in. the neighbourhood, Submitted to the yoke, or fled to distant parts to enjoy their freedom. As soon as the colony was provided with a capital, Pfentcinu- it began to acquire some solidity and in process of tio'anrt time, they formed four great provinces, the Tucuman; il Pars Santa Crux de la Sierra, Paraguay proper, and Rio de g3Y'. la Plata. In all this immense space, there are but twelve towns, scattered up and down, which in Europe would be reckoned only small market towns. They consist of a few houses or huts, placed without any regularity, and parted by little woods or groves, so that every hour looks like a single plantation. All round each town are some small villages of conquered Indians. The rest of the country is entirely a wilderness, or inhabited by inde pendent savages. Their rage against thos who have forced them to fly to inaccessible mountains is inconceivable They are continually coming down, in hopes of murdering some of their tyrants. These inroads pre vent all communication between the Spanish fettle ments. THE capital itself has some defcas that are detrimental to industry. Buenos Ayres has indeed some ad vantages. The Situation is healthy and pleasant, and their
0 o K air temperate. The country affords a chearful prof-,,pecf, and would be fertile, if they would take the pains,to cultivate it. The buildings, which were all of earth forty years ago, are more solid and more commodious, since they have learnt to make brick and lime. The population amounts to 16,000 fouls, and the white people may be about a quarter of the number. One side of the town is defended by a fortress, with a gar ripon of a thousand men: and the rest is surrounded by the river. These precautions are extremely proper, but inadequate to the end proposed. THE town stands seventy leagues from the sea. Large (hips cannot come up to it, and the smallest vessels run great risques in failing up a river that wants depth, is full of islands, shoals and rocks, and where forms are more frequent and more dreadful than on the ocean. They are obliged to anchor every night ort the spot they come to; and on the calmest days, a pilot must go before in a boat to take the soundings, and trace the way for them. The danger is not over even in the harbour, which is within three leagues of the town. Though :he hips take care to cast all their an chorus, and to f-cure their cables with strong iron chains; they are in danger of being sunk by a furious wind, which comes from the frontiers of Chili, and, as it meets with nothing to check its progress over a plain of three hundred leagues, grows fill more impetuous as it enters the channing of the river. IF the Spaniards had not been too much directed by chance in fixing molt of their American settlements, they would have occupied the porto Infenada, or that of Paragon, at the entrance of the river Plata, to the invest, or that of Maldonado, that lies on the same line to the eat The frequent accidents that have happened on the river, and other political reasons, have at las Convinced the court of Madrid of the improper situations
of Buenos Ayres, and in I 726, they built a citadel party B ci p' leagues lower, at Monte Video; flanked with four ball . . r tionsj 'and defended by a numerous artillery; and a gar ripon of two hundred men. They afterwards found that this harbour was only fit for finally vests;, and therefore removed to Maldonado, where the fortifications were built by the Guaranis without pay, as were like wise those of Buenos Ayres and Monte Video. It is by nature one of the finest harbours in the world. It is large enough tb contain the most numerous fleet; ana the entrance which is narrow, is very easily defended. The air is excellent, there is plenty of wood, and the foil'isvvery fertile. When once they have subdued the natives who are a resolute, warlike and robust people, and when the families which are removed thither from time to' time, from the Canary lends, have improved the lands, it will be a complete settlement. The ships that are failing from'Europe to the South Teas, will find there a safe harbour, and all the refreshments they may wits. In time it will become the natural staple for the trade of Paraguay ; and may till be improved, when the Spaniards shall have adopted better principles of government At present it is not very considerable. THE richest produce that is peculiar to that conti Trad ofr went, is the herb of Paraguay. It is the leaf of a mid '"aag'2y' die sized tree. The taste is not unlike that of mal lows, and the shape is that of an orange tree. It is divided into three class. The first, called caacz's, is the bud when it is just opening to unfold its leases. It is far superior to the other two, hut will not keep lb long, and it is.therefore difficult to export it to any distance The next, which is called iaenm.;i, is the full grown leaf stripped of its stalks. If the stalks are left on, it is called canguazzt, which is the third fort. The leaves are first roasted, and then kept in pits dipzad in the ground, and covered with bulls hides. VOL. II. B i T:S
E O O K THE mountains of Maracayu, at the leaf side of Pa vmI. raguay, furnish the herb that is moi esteemed. Theatre does not grow on the tops of the hills, but in the marshy bottoms that lie between them. This herb first grew famous in distant parts, being sent from Assumption which is called the capital of Paraguay, though in fact it is a very inconsiderable place. It had always been the delight of the savages; and the first exportation returned considerable profits, but the town was soon obliged to drop this trade, having lost all the Indians of that territory in sending the herb so far. There re gained nothing but a desert for forty leagues round the place, so that the inhabitants lost the only chance they had of enriching themselves. T HE new Villa Rica, near Maracayu, engrossed this branch of trade, but were soon obliged to share it with the Guaranis, who at first gathered the herb only for their own use, but soon began to sell it. This employ ment, together with a journey of four hundred leagues going and coming, kept them at a distance from home great part of the year, so that they grew unmindful of religion, and unconnected with the colony. Many of them perished by change of air and fatigue. Some grew weary of this laborious employment, and ran away into the woods, where they resumed their former way of life. Besides the villages having no men to defend them, lay exposed to the inroads of the enemy. To obviate these inconveniences, the missionaries sent for feeds from Ma racayu, and sowed them in thole parts of their grounds that were most analagous to the soil of the mountains. These trees have multiplied exceedingly, and have not degenerated, at least not visibly.,'IHE produce of these plantations added to that which grows spontaneously, is very considerable. Some is consumed in Paraguay, and Chili and Peru take off an dually Ioo,coo arrows, which, at the rate of 23 livres
12 fous 6 deniers Y, make an article of exportation of B o o K 2,362,500 livres z. THIS herb, which the Spaniards of South America extol as a preservative against most diseases, is used all over that part of the new hemisphere. It is dried and almost powdered, and then put into a cup, with sugar, lemon juice, and sweet-scented paste; then they pour boiling water upon it, and drink it off directly, before it has time to turn black. THE herb of Paraguay is not an object of utility to Europe; but that country is valuable on other accounts, and in particular for the hides it fends-over. When the Spaniards forsook Buenos Ayres in 1538, they left some horned cattle in the neighbouring fields, which they had brought over from their own country. They multiplied to such a degree in those pastures, that nobody thought it worth his while to take them home when the town was restored. Afterwards they contrived to knock them on the head, merely for the fake of their hides. The manner in which they do it is curious enough. A NUMBER of huntsmen on horseback repair to the places where they know there are most wild bulls. Each pursues his own beast, and hamstrings him with a sharp ron cut in the shape of a crescent, and fastened to a long handle. When he has brought him to the ground, ei pursues others and disables them in the same manner. after some days spent in this violent exercise, they ride lack, find the bulls where they had left them, flay hem, and carry away the hides, and Sometimes the ton uses and the far, and all the rest they leave to be de 'poured by numbers of vultures and other birds of prey. HIDES were so cheap at first, that they would hardly etch one livre fix fous a-piece ', though the buyers re used a great many because they were not of the rightly Near one guinea. z About :o,6c i. a About 1 i. z d. 1.,Bb 2si e;
1 0 0 K size ; but they are grown dearer since there are fewer bulls. This decrease is not owing so much to the hunts men as to the wild dogs. Those mischievous animals make such havock, that the colony is in danger of losing that lucrative branch of trade. The government of Buenos Ayres has endeavoured to prevent this misfortune by ordering part of the garrison out to destroy those fierce dogs. The soldiers, at their return from this necessary expedition, were so hooted at, that they would not go any more on an errand that cat a ridicule upon them, and exposed them to the contempt of their own countrymen THE deficiency in the article of hides, will be made up by tobacco, which they have begun to cultivate in Paraguay with good success. They already send over a considerable quantity every year; as likewise vicuna wall, which comes from the mountains ; and metals; all which productions are foreign to the colony the first Spaniards who came to Paraguay, made no doubt but a country that lay so near Peru muff contain great riches. They aced in consequence of this persuasion which isis kept up for a whole century by some eric trifling ancients. At last they were forced to give up this chimerical id-a ; but after it had long been disbelieved it was again revived to serve some private pur pose. It is now certainly known that Paraguay has no gold or silver but what comes from Chili and Potofi. Some of it circulates in the colony; a great deal more is smuggled into the Portuguese settlements ; and every year about five millions are shipped off from Buenos Ayres for the mother country's THIS account of the natural and moral properties, t: - :o as well as of the riches of Paraguay, does not convey L,:.','i k the idea of a very famous colony. It has been indebted jeu ha-e for the attention that has all along been paid to it, to ter, Re an establishment formed in its center, which, after long mar. 5.n 4- debates, C-or.-
debates, has at last met with the approbation of the B o o K wisest men. The opinion we are to entertain of it, Viii seems at last to be determined by philosophy, before which ignorance, prejudice, and faction should disappear as shades vanish before the light. THE Jesuits intrusted with the missions of Peru, being informed how the Incas governed their empire and made their conquests, adopted their plan in the execution of a grand project they had formed. The defendants of Marco Capac, marched to their frontiers with powerful armies, composed of soldiers who at least knew how to obey, to fight, and to intrench themselves; and who, with better offensive weapons than those of the savages, had shields and defensive weapons, which their enemies had not. They proposed to the nation they wanted to add to their empire, to embrace their religion, laws, and manners, to quit their forests and to live in society. They frequently met with opposition Most of those people held out a great while in defence of their prejudices and their liberty. The Incas then had recourse to patience, and sent fresh deputies, w:'i again endeavoured to persuade them. Sometimes thole deputies were murdered; sometimes the savages sell upon the army of the Incas. These fought bravely, and had always the advantage. They constantly ceased fighting as soon as they had obtained the viaory. If they took any prisoners, they treated them so kindly, that they were in raptures with the yoke of there humane conquerors, and ma.;e such a favourable report at home, that their nation became entirely attached to them. A Peri'iain army vw/:s seldom the aggressor, and the Inca has often been known to forbear hostilities, even after he had ex experienced the perfidy of the barbarians, and several of his soldiers had been murdered. The Jesuits, who had no army, only made use of per station. They went into the forests to look fur the fa-ebb I wages,
B o O K wages, and prevailed upon them to renounce their old,VIL customs and prejudices, to embrace a religion which they could not understand, and to enjoy the sweets of society which they were strangers to. THE Incas had another advantage over the Jesuits, which was, the nature of their religion, calculated to strike the senses. It is a more easy matter to persuade men to worship the fun which they see, than to adore an invisible God, and to believe doctrines and mysteries which they cannot comprehend. Accordingly the Jesuits were so wise as to civilize the savages in rome measure, before they attempted to convert them. They did not pretend to make them christians, till they had made them men. As soon as they had got them toge ther, they began to supply them with all the good things they had promised them, and made them embrace christianity, when, by making them happy, they had made them tractable. THE division of lands into three shares for religious purposes, for the public, and for individuals; the work ing for orphans, old people and soldiers; the giving re wards for great actions; the inspection and censure of manners; the effects of benevolence; festivals inter mingled with labour; military exercises, subordination, preservatives against idleness, respect for religion and the jaws, the union of political and religious authority in the same hands: in a word, whatever was admired in the legislation of the Incas, was practised in greater pcr- f;iaic;l at Paraguay. The Incas and the Jesuits have alike established an r'-d r that prevents the commission of crimes, and in ,l, i ah puni:frncnt. There is hardly such a thing as .a ,!inqu:nt in Paraguay. Their morals are pure, and :.e keep fA by gen:!Cr means fill than in Peru. The ! e.e: e re e:e\cre in tht emile ; they are not foaming a.c G-::a:.,i. PL:::;::;.;;: ;, r. : dreaded there, ands nomen
men fear nothing but the reproach of their own con B O O K science. Till. AFTER the example of the Incas, the Jesuits have established the theocratical government, with the additional advantage of confession, which is of great ser vice, so long as its institutors shall not make an ill use of it. This alone answers the end of penal laws, and keeps up a purity of manners. In Paraguay, religion, more forcible than the sword, brings the guilty person to the feet of the magistrate. There, far from pallia ting his crime, remorse makes him rather aggravate it; and instead of eluding his punishment, he begs for it on his knees. The more public and severe it is, the more it quiets the conscience of the criminal. Thus punishment, which every where else is the dread of ma lefaLors, is their comfort there, as it puts an end to re morse by expiation. The people of Paraguay have no civil laws, because they know of no property ; nor have they any criminal laws, because every one is his own accuser, and voluntarily submits to his punishment: their only laws are the precepts of religion. Theocracy would be the bell of all governments, if it were possible to preserve it in its purity: but then it simul be always under the direction of virtuous men, deeply im preyed with its true principle; religion should inspire none but the duties of society; should call nothing a crime but what offends ageil:t the natural rights of mankind; should not, in its precepts, substitute prayers to labours, vain ceremonies of worship to works of charity, or nccdlces scruple to wcll-grounll d re morse. BUT it can hardly be expected that Spanish or Italian Jesuits, should not have trarnlnittcd to Paraguay the monastic notions and practices of Rome or \ladr-id. However, if they have introduced rome abuses, it must be confclffd it has bLcn with 'such peculiar ; Iainta3gcs,B b that,
B .0 o K that, perhaps, it is impoiEbie to do so nluch good to men,any where cl!c, with so little injury. THERE are more arts and conveniences in the re publics of the Jesuits than in Curio itself, without more luxury. The use of coin is unknown there. The v-archm: .tr til v-later, tih- locksmith, the taylor, all dnpc t their V.'i;s in public war-hcufcs. They are fuppl;cu .with II n cei;rics; for the lhufoat.dman has laboured for ihlm. Th: jesuits watch over the wants of all, wth rmagqi.a'-s chosen by the people there is no i L'ir.aion of stations ; and it is the only society on c;r:h where men enjoy that equality which is the second of ill bI;elngs; for liberty is un undoubtedly the fir.t.,THE Incas and the Jesuits have both made religion respectable by the dazzling pnnp of outward ceremonies Nothing could be more magnificent than the temples of the fun; and the churches in Paraguay are equal to the finest in Europe. The Jesuits have made their worship pleasant, without making it an indecent farce. The Indians are allured to church by soothing music, affecting hjmins, paintings that speak to the eyes, and the majesty of ceremonies so that pleasure is blended with the exercises of piety. It is the-re that religion is ami b'.e, and that the people first love it in its ministers. No thing can equal the purity of manners, the mild and .tenrdr zeal, a,,d the paternal k'idnifs of the Jesuits of Paraguay. Serve; sailor is ray the father, as he is the Si c of his parishioners. His authority is not felt, Le cous hi commands, forbid:, and punishes nothing, but v. h:a i commanded, forbidden and punished by the re ligivn t:: all afore and Io: c, as he hi::,fcif does.,IT snout f em that wren. mull have multiplied extremely under a govcrnir.nrt where no one is idlers:. ;; o one is sigurd xi:.h !about, where food is '.:- -: ::-: . : :;;.;:l, ai ' tl.c sec for all whereas
all have comfortable abodes and good clothing; where B o o K the aged, the lick, willows and orphans, are assisted . in a manner unknown to all the earth besides; where every one marric from choice and not for in teres, and where a number of children is a comfort, and can never be a burden ; where debauchery, the offspring of idleness, that corrupter of opulence and poverty, never hastens the decays of human life where nothing sirs up factitious passions, or contradicts these that are regulated by nature and reason ; where the people en joy the advantages of trade, and are not exposed to the contagion of vice and luxury; where plentiful magazine as, d a ricr.dy i:i:tr;cou;'f between nations united in the bonds us the series religion, are a security against any scarcity that might happen from the inconstancy or inclemency of the seasons ; where public justice has never been reduced to the cities necessity of condemning a single ma!efi:Dor to death, to disgrace or to any pu punishment of a long duration; wh,-i the very na.mcs of a tax or a law suit, :oii:E wo terllile scourges which c;-cry where lie assist: :::ali]l!:d, Are i::iawn; such a country must naturally be c;l: ;cd to b the noilt populous in the world i but th .s is n.; the c.eic THIS dominion, which 1b. al : i:- he year ;610, ex tends from the Patricii, wh cil fll into the Paraguay under the 27th degree of :out i ;;:ii, to the Uragua that fall into the flie riv r tov.rids the 34th degree. On the banks of thos! two i-eat rive r, which descend from the mountains near ir.izil, in the futile plains that lie between them, the j:ifaits had already, in 1676, fettled twenty-two villages; how populous they were is not known. In 1702, these were tvienlty-nine, con fishing in all of 22,761 families, which made a population of 89,491 fouls. The habitations and inhabitants have increased since, and the whole may nwv amount to 200,0oc.,THE
B o o K THE religious legislators have long been suspected of, V . curtailing the lift of their subjects to defraud Spain of,the tribute they had submitted to pay; and the court of Madrid has expressed some uneasiness on that account. An exact inquiry has dispelled those injurious and ill grounded suspicions. It was not very likely that a society that was always jealous of their honour, should for a mean and low interest, sacrifice a sense of greatness, adequate to the majesty of the structure they were erect ing with so much care and pains those who were sufficiently acquainted with the genius of the society not to sander it so grossly, gave out that the Guaranis did not multiply, because they perished by working in the mines. This accusation, urged above a hundred years ago, has been propagated by the same spirit of avarice, envy and ill na ture, that first invented it. The more the Spanifh mi nirfrv have searched for there hidden treasures, the more they have been convinced that they were all chi medical. If the Jesuits had found mines, they certainly could never have opened that door to every kind of nice, which would loon have wasted their empire and ruined their power. OTrEas are of opinion that the oppression of monkish government must have checked the population of the Guaranis. But this is hardly reconcilable with that blind confidence, and that excessive attachment the Guaranis are said to have for the missionaries who govern them. Oppression consists in imposing labour and tri bute; in arbitrary levies of men and money to com pose armies and fleets, destined for destruction; in the forcible execution of laws imposed without the content of the people, and contrary to the remonstrances of the magistrates; in the violation of public, and the efta- biifrnmeit of private privilege; in the undue exercise of a pretended di;inc .authority, enforced by the sword injustice.
justice. This is oppression. But it can never exist, B o o K where every action is the result of voluntary submission, v1 . and proceeds from inclination founded on conviction, and where nothing is done but from choice, and full approbation. This is that gentle sway of opinion, the only one, perhaps, that it is lawful for one man to ex excise over another, because it makes them happy who submit to it. Such is most certainly that of the Jesuits in Paraguay, since whole nations are come of their own accord, to incorporate into their government, and not one has ever thrown off the yoke. No one will dare to assert that fifty Jesuits have been able to compel two hundred thousand Indians to be their slaves, who had it in their power either to murder their priests, or to run away to the deserts. This strange paradox would never be believed, even by the most credulous. SOME have suspected that the Jesuits had propagated those high notions of celibacy amongst their people, which were so prevalent in Europe in the dark ages of france and are not yet entirely eradicated, notwithstanding the continual expostulations of nature, reason and so city. But this is far from being the case. Themiflio- varies have not so much as told their converts of a fu perfection which was totally unfit for that climate, and would have defeated their best inflitutions. LASTLY, our politicians have accounted for the want of population of the Guaranis, from their having no property. Undoubtedly the maxim we go upon, when we consider property as a source of multiplication, both of men and subsistence, is an unquestionable truth ; but such is the fate of the best institutions, that our political errors will often endanger them. Under the law of property, when it is attended with avarice, ambition, luxury, a multitude of imaginary wants, and a thousand other irregularities arising from the imperfections of our governments; the bounds of out possessions, fometintes,too
B o o K too much confined, sometimes too much extended, at once,mln stop both the fertility of our lands and the increase of our species. These inconveniences exist not in Paraguay. All are sure of a subsistence; all consequently enjoy the great benefits of property without the name. It is not therefore properly the want of it that has prevented the progress of their population; but other causes may be aaiign.d. FIRST, the Portuguese of S. Paul, in 1631, destroyed twelve or thirteen communities in the province of Guam yra, the nearest to Brazil. The greatest part of the 97,00o Indians who lived there, perished by the sword, or in slavery, or with hunger in the forests. Only I2,0;0 escaped, who fled for safety to other parts further distant from the Portuguese.,THIS destruction, the repairing of which must be the work of ages, was followed by flow but incessant losses. The savage nations that hovered about the ha citations of the Guaranis, to carry off their provisions, barbarously murdered all who offered to oppose them those calamities have been followed by another far more dreadful. The Europeans brought the small-pox amongst the Guaranis, and that distemper is more fatal in Paraguay than any other country in the world. It f ecps away thousands, and hardly any ever recover. It is surprising that the Jesuits, who could not be ignorant of the salutary effects of inoculation on the banks of the Amazon, should persist in neglecting so safe r,;d easy a method of saving the lives of their con merits. It can scarce be supposed that legislators so en li;Shtnerd could be prejudiced by the ridiculous objections of some ignorant divines, against a practice so universally authorized by its great success besides there causes of depopulation, the Guaranis meet with others from their own climate, which of itfsif breeds contagious distempers, especially on the,banks
banks of the Parana, where thick and constant fogs, B o o K under a sultry (ky, make the air damp and unwholesome. VIII. The Guaranis are the less able to resist the malignancy of these vapours, as they are great eaters, though in a hot country. They eat their fruit green, and their meat almost raw; this occasions a bad digestion, foul humours, and infirmities which they transmit to their posterity. The mass of blood being tainted by improper food and a noxious air, is not likely to produce a numerous and long-lived offspring. THE Chiquitos, though they advance further into the torrid zone, are much stronger than the Guaranis, who live nearer the tropic and beyond it. Under the name of Chiquitos are included many small nations, inhabiting a space that extends from the sith to the 21zt degree of south latitude. That country is hot, hilly and fruitful; and intersected on the weft side by three rivers, which all meet and take the name of Ma der; and this at las falls into the great river of the Amazons. THE first conquerors of Peru were acquainted with the Chiquitos, but could not subdue them; and their successors attempted it in vain. In 1692, the Jesuits undertook what force could never ctefct. This project alarmed the Spaniards of Santa Cruz-de la Sierra, who made a great profit of the saves they took in those parts, and sold very dear to work in the mines of Potofi, and for other purposes. They knew that the missionaries who, either from religion or from ambition, had quite other views and other maxims, would never sussex their converts to be oppresses, and would not be at a loss for means to prevent it. Their labours were obtruded by craft, by violence, by calumny, and by all the arts that savage rapaciousness's could invent; but their constancy got the bette. of all opposition, and the,ftruAure
0o o0 firuaure was raised upon the very plan that had been vet laid down.,BY the year 1726, there were fix large communities, among the Chiquitos at a great distance from each other and parted by immense forests. The population ex needed 40,000 fouls. Their number has continued in creating, and was almost double in 1746, when the new republic acknowledged the dominion of Spain, on the same terms as the Guaranis had done before, and they copied them in every thing.,BOTS these hates have raised an insurmountable bar rier between them and the Spaniards. They both have all things in common. It is the commonwealth that carries on trade. Their manufactures are the same, and so is their agriculture. In all parts they cultivate sugar, tobacco, cotton, fruits, the natural corn of the country, and all the several forts that grow in Europe. Most of our animals have multiplied there, and the cows and horses have not degenerated. The only difference be tween the two nations is, that the Chiquitos are stronger, more temperate, more assiduous, more alive, and more laborious than the Guaranis. In all there respects they are no less superior to the Moses. THE I\lojes live in the lath degree of south latitude. To the east, their country is parted from Peru by the Cordeleras. To the south, it is not far from Paraguay. To the north and weft are unknown lands. About the year 1670, a Spanish Jesuit named Baraza, a man of great sensibility and resolution, took pity on there poor savages, who lived without culture, without religion and without morals. He fixed these roving men, and governed them by the laws of the Guaranis. His labours and those of his successors had collected no less than 3C,0oo fouls by the beginning of the century. We have no accounts of the progress of this establishment; but if we may judge by the length of time, and thespis
pains that have been taken, we must suppose it to be B o o K very considerable. VIII. THE Jesuits were incessantly labouring to unite these three commonwealths, by civilizing the vagabond na tions that are dispersed up and down the intermediate deserts; but their scheme, the execution of which was doubtful, or at least very remote, was not consistent with the sordid views of the Spanifh adventurers. Those barbarous usurpers of the new world, had done good service to religion, as long as it was a pretext for shedding blood to get gold; but they no longer attended to it, when its design was to humanize the savages, in order to make them happy. Those destroyers con filtered the Americans who had escaped their fury, but as so many instruments for their avarice. After they had stripped them of their possessions, they reduced them to avery, and doomed them to work in the mines. But the Jesuits were too artful for them, and obtained of go government the freedom of all the Indians they could persuade to come out of their forests and lurking places, and to live in society. They soon found this was not a sufficient security to their republic, and thought its spa ability required that the conquerors should be excluded from interfering with them under any pretence what soever. They foresaw thais they were admitted as traders, or even as mere travellers, they would assume a haughty and supercilious behaviour, would breed disturbances would sow dissentions in those peaceable abodes, with the feeds of all kinds of corruption by their bad example. The measures that were taking against these dangerous men, offended them the more, as they met with the approbation of the wise. They were so exasperated, that they filled the whole world with odious imputations, which, upon some flight ap appearances, were taken for demonfirations.,THE
B o o K THE missionaries traded for the nation. They fen ' ' ,, the labours of their artificers, and the herb of Par.asuay.,to Buenos-ayres, and received money in exchange, oui of which they first took up the tribute of 5 livres 5 fous b, which every man above eighteen and under fifty years ol age paid to the king. The remainder went to buy such European goods as were wanted for the colony. This was the ground of the chief accusations that were brought against the Jesuits. They were traduced throughout the whole world as a society of merchants, who under the veil of religion, attended only to their own sordid in terief.,IT must be consoled at leap, that the founders of the first institutions in Paraguay did not def-rve this censure. The deserts through which they travelled, afforded neither gold nor mercantile commodities. They found no thing there but forests, serpents, and morasses; some tries death, or horrid torments, and always excessive fatigue. The hardships they endured with so much pa thence, and the infinite pains they took to come at the fi3vazs, and induce them to quit their roving life, are sr b-yond what could have been compassed by men ns common abilities. They never dreamt of appropriating to them :elves the produce of a land, which their care on') prevented from being a habitation of wv.ild bears. Their successors may possibly have been a bi^tlcd by less pure and dif:tercti-d motives; but if th-y have been so bale as to seek for an increase of rich's where they ought to have only fought the glory of God and the coot of mankind ; if they have acquired lands and amassed treasure in America to purchase consequence in Europe, a::d to increase their influence all over the world; it is an ambition that has never atiEcred the felicity of their converts. Those people have always enjoyed an uninterrupted ;rncui!ii y, and lived (f happily that they,.ic,:, . ; J.had,had
had no reason to lament the want of property, which B o o K they had no notion of, nor of superfluities which they Vi . did not want. BuT some who have not accused the Jesuits of Para gay of avarice, have censured their institutions as being the work of blind superstition. If our idea of super station is just, it retards the progress of population; it devotes to needless practices the time that should be em played in the labours of society ; it strips the laborious man, to enrich the solitary and lazy; it promotes discord and persecution for things of little moment; it gives the signal for revolt in the name of God; it frees its ministers from obedience to the laws, and from the duties of society: in a wvcrd, it makes the people miser able, and arms the wicked against the righteous. But there is no such thing in Paraguay; and if superstition has created the happy institutions of there christians, who are strangers to all the world beside, it is the first time it ever did any good to men. POLITICAL jealousy, ever restless, ever fearful, ever ambitious, suspected :ill more probability, that the re publics formed by the Jc!lits might one tai; aspire after absolute independence, and possibly art.:npt to overthrow the power under whose protection tlicv had been ntlrled. Those men who were lo gentle, so perfectly united amongst themselves, and so ai.dueo-s in their labours, were at the same time the best soldiers in all America. They were well trained up and exercised ; they obeyed from a religious principle, and fo;:!ht with the same zeal that brought the christian martyrs to the P;iffold, and the same cnthuiafin that overthrown' many cmlircs by the hands of the followers of \Vo:ii .' and Mohammed They were still in the full ;igouir of uncorrupted manners and laws; whereas tic Spaniards in America, enervated by that sloth v;.;ch is the consequence of victory and cruelty, were no hun er what they VOL. II. C c had
B o o K had been at the time of their conquests; so that thei, . fears were not altogether groundless.,Ix the governments that preceded the establishment of christianity, and in most of them that did not admit it, civil and religious authority was always in the sam hands, as derived from the same source, and tending t, the same end; or the one was so subservient to th other, that the parole could not separate the two ideas but were kept in awe by the one, whilst they were serv in, the other. The wisest lawgivers have always beet convinced that religion, as it prepared the minds of til people to obedience, must secure the continuance of it. But in Europe, where christianity rose on the ruins of a barbarous religion and a great empire, this occasioned from the first a rivalfhip between the two powers, that of arms, and that of opinion, which were both at the same time contending for dominion over men and their property. When the northern barbarians poured in upon the territories of the Roman empire, the christians, persecuted by the heathen emperors, im pored the assistance of these hostile foreigners, against the government that oppressed them. They preached to thei: conquerors a new religion, which made it their duty to extirpate the old ; and asked for the materials of the temples to build churches. The savages readily cave away what did not belong to them; they offered up to christianity ,il its enemies and their own; they took lords and men, and gave the church a share of broth. iThey demanded tribute, but exempted the clergy, bewail tiny couln:e-llaced their usurpations. Lords turned p: rats, :nd priest became lords. The great at t child time privileges of their birth to the priesthood which t;.y embraced. The bishops imprinted the feal of religionis on the lands they possessed. From this mix ture and confusion cf birth with high stations, of titles-id estates, of persons and things, sprang up a,powtr,
power, monstrous from its birth, and which in process B o O K of time became enormous; a power, which, from the v"111 very first-was distinct from the only true power, which is that of government; a power, which attempted to raise itself above government, but having been unsuccess ful ill the attempt, has since separated from it, and only lorded it over such as were willing to submit. These two powers are so discordant, that they are incessantly disturbing the harmony of states and empires. THE Jesuits of Paraguay, who were well acquainted with this Source of division, have been warned by the mischief their society has sometimes done in Europe, and have exerted themselves to promote the real happiness of America. They have united both powers into one, making'every thing subordinate to religion; which gave them the entire disposal of the thoughts, affections and faculties of their converts. The question is, whether they did it for their own lakes, or for the fake of their cubits. ''l;;: readiness with which these missionaries, on their being distilled by the court of Acrid, have evacuated an empire which they could so easily have defended, has justices them in the opinion of a grc::t part of the public, from the imputation of ambition, which their enemies have laid to their charge, and spread throughout all Eu rope. But philosophy, which fees with cither eyes than the vulgar, waits to judge these lawgivers, till the be saviour of the inhabitants of Paraguay decides for or against them. If those nations submit to Spain, which has no right or force to oppose against them, it will be laid that the Jesuits had taken more pains to inspire men with notions of obedience, than to set them right as to the principles of natural equity, which those savages Were fc much inclined to adopt; and that by bending them to submission by ignorance, they only made them happier at first, in order to make them one day th tools,Cc of
B o o K of their own arbitrary will. But if these people, armec,j and disciplined as they are, should repulse the barbarou!,oppressors of their country ; if they should avenge theft immense regions of all the blood that Spain has sheds philosophers will then say the Jesuits have laboured for the happiness of mankind with the disinterested spirit ol virtue; that they have ruled over the inhabitants of Paraguay only to in:lruei them; that whilst they gave them a religion, they left them the fundamental notions ofjutfice, which are the first precepts of true religion and that they have chiefly engraved on their minds that principle of all lawful and durable society : that it is a crime for men collected together, to content to a form of government, which, by abridging them of the liberty of disposing of their onr fate, may one day make it their duty to commit crimes. Thus the tranquillity of Spanifh America depends upon the opinions established in Paraguay. Inraionrsto INDEPENDENT of this danger, which may be confider wtihhASP 2 ed as a domestic concern, Spanish America always stands ica is e- exposed to foreign invasions, especially from the South pcfk5. .Me os sc;- Sea. it was long thought to be secure on that side, p''"'i i cc during the distance, and the hazards of that na-navigation, and how licrl those seas were known. The Dutch, who did n:o: think this coast of America to in accessible, sent a snell squadron thither in 16+3, which cosy took EBidi ia, the chief port of Chili, and the key to those peaceful seas. They already possessed in imagina tion the treasures of those rich provinces, when want and sickness bean to share their hopes. The death of their chief inrcrc.-:d their uneasiness, and the troops that were sent a;gin?t them from Peru completely disconcerted them. Their resolution forsook them at that distance from home, and the fear of falling into the hands of a nation whose hatred they had so often experienced determined them to embark again. If they,I had
had had more perseverance, they might probably have B o 0 K held out till the arrival of the succours that would have VI. been sent from the Ruyter-zee, when their first success came to be known. THE French were of this opinion, when in 1698 they formed a settlement in the streights of Magellan, and on that part of the coast of Chili s.hich had been nigleied by the Spaniards. This scheme was approved by Lewis Xii, who gave it the sanction of public au thirty. The close connections which he soon after en tered into with the masters of America, prevented the ex.cuioiii of a project, which vows mute extensive than it appeared to be.,I'HE English had not waited for the example set them by Holland and France, to turn their attention to the South Sea. They were tempted by the mines as early as the year 162., but the weakness of the prince who then governed them, proved the ruin of a considerable association formed for this great purpose. Charles II. resumed this brilliant scheme, and sent Sir John Marlborough to reconnoitre those latitudes that were so little known, and to endeavour to open some communication with the nations of Chili. That monarch was so ia. patient to know the success of the expedition, that when he was informed of the return of his admiral to the downs, he got into his barge, and went to meet him at Gravesend. Though this first attempt had been of no service, the ministry v were not discouraged. They erected the South Sea company in s-71, who found it more convenient, or perhaps more humane, to procure the treasures of thole parts by trade than by conquest. Tl;ey were quietly enriching themselves, when a bloody war changed the situation of things. A squadron was sent to the South Seas, under the command of Anson, who would probably have c:ccuted the terrible opera tions contained ir-his instructions, had it not been for,C c 3 the
B o o K the misfortunes that beset his squadron, which, from . ' . wrong measures at first setting out, was forced to double cape Horn at a feaobn when it is impracticable. Since the year 1764, England is quietly trying for a settlement in the South Seas. The English admirals have already discovered several populous islands. Time will shew what use they may be of, and how far they may be ser visible towards bringing on some revolution these are very flow seps for ambition. But if the noble and lawful desire of delivering half the continent of America from the Spanifh yoke, and an emulation to share its riches by fair trade and industry ; if such exalted views should animate a nation, it would be an easy mat ter, by pursuing the plan laid down for Anson, to' rob Spain at one stroke of all her American possessions be yond the southern tropic. Twelve men of war, fest from Europe with three or four thousand troops; might safely undertake it. They would first get refreshments in the Brazils, at Rio Janeiro, at St. Catherine's, and at all the Portuguese settlements, which are nearly con cornet in the humbling of the Spaniards. If afterwards theft ships should want to refit, they might'fafely put in on the uninhabited and uninhabitable coast of'Patagonia, at Port Desire or at St. Julian. They would: double Cape Horn in December and January, when those seas are not more stormy than others. If they should chance to separate, they would meet at the desart island of Sccoro, and then fall upon Baldivia. THIS place is not lb formidable as it appears. The fortifications indeed are considerable, but they are out-of repair. There are a hundred pieces of cannon, but flw have carriages fit for use. They are never pro vide with stores or ammunition to stand a fire. If an attentive administration, a thing unknown in that country, should remedy these disorders, the resistance-would not be much more obltin.itc. A garrison con-,ififng
filling of officers and soldiers disgraced by their crimes, B o o K and by the banishment to which they al-e condemned, , vm'. would always be wanting in the principles of honour, the experience and the abilities requisite to make a glorious defence. The conquerors would find a safe harbour, excellent timber, hemp, corn, and all the comforts they could wist for after a long passage. The troops, who would loon recover in so healthy and plentiful a country, would attack the rest of Chili with great superiority. Tais kingdom, which was formerly defended by two thousand soldiers, has now but five hundred, half hoise and half foot. It is true, all the Spaniards able to bear arms, and formed into companies, are obliged to join the troops ; but what could there enervated and inexperienced citizens do against well-disciplined veterans ? But this is nqt the whole. The Araucos and their friends would no sooner hear of this revolution, but they would take the field of their own accord. Their cruelty is so well known, that the Spaniards would bend all their es forts against these barbarians, and would no longer think of opposing the Europeans. . TuE coast of Peru would make still less refinance CaIaoq, the only fortified place, has but a garrison of fix hundred&men. The taking of this port would open the way to Lima, which is but two leagues off and quite defenceless. The succours that might be sent them from the inland parts, where there is not one soldier, would not save them i and the enemies squadron would inter kept any that might come from Panama by Tea. Pa nama itself, which has nothing but a bare wall, without a ditch or any outworks, would soon be obliged to fur render: the garrison, continually weakened by detach ments they muff send to defend Darien, Chagre and Porto-bello, would be unable to repulse a brisk attack. WE will allow that the enemy, though he w.!s master of thecoafts, would not be so of all Peru. No doubt the taking of two inconsiderable places is very different c from
a o o K from the conquest of a vast empire. However, if we,. consider the bad dispositions of the Indians, the discontent of the Creoles, their sloth, their want of experience, and their ignorance in the art of war; a great revolution may not be Co improbable a thing as it appears a- first fight. The nation that should attack the Spaniards, would, have but little less advantage over them, than they themselves had over the Americans when they first discovered them. What if the Jesuits, with that spirit cf ambition they are accused of, ais that resentment which religion itself cannot have ex-ins cuifhcd in their hearts, should join with the enemies of their persecutors, and introduce them to a people who mull still retain an affection for thick How easily might they engage all the inhabitants of Paraguay to rei volt, and stir up a general war of all America against Spain! What a triumph for that society, for those men who are said to be so artful, and so eager in all their secret intrigues, if they could in their turn expel that nation from America, which has driven them out of all i;-. opinions ! BE-T supposing the success of the conqueror should be confined to the taking of Callao and Panama, Spain would then be deprived of all the treasures of the South seas. To open the communication afresh, the Spaniards would be obliged to make conf:dc;aLle armaments; they nuit not be intercepted, and they must go round cape Hor;, or through the iraigihts of Magellan. Then, vitho : a harbour to refit or recruit, they must fight a squadron that had been supplied with all they wanted by the lies of Panama ; and if they could beat this fqui;rcn, thee mus afterwards be in a concisely to beE;cf2 and take two places that would be va liontiv defended. All this is not eafiv! done.,Wiio;, T U c::cct;.ig our salerne in its full extent, t'c na;via:iin of the South Seas may be intercepted. It may be done if only two strong men of war can get,thither
thither undiscovered. By cruising to the north and B O o K south of Lima, where all business centers, nothing that vii. conies in or out can escape them. The ships which, on account of the winds and currents, must always keep in the same line, must necessarily fall under the enemy's fails. When trade has sustained so many loses as to be afraid of sending out any more ships, there is indeed an end of captures; but if the commanders are so faithful to their country as to be unmindful of their own in terest, and keep their station, the trade of Spain is at a stand. ALL these misfortunes, which may not be far off, con filtering the boldness of navigators, and the recent discoveries made by the English in the South Seas, cannot other wise be prevented, than by a firing squadron constantly stationed there. The Spaniards have all the materials for it il their own hands. They are to be found in the South Sea, and arc adapted to the climate. It must be granted that the crews, made up in a great measure of Indians or negroes, will never be equal to the Eu european sailors ; but if they are carefully exercised, and accustomed to the fca, to fire, to the manoeuvre, and to discipline, they will be very well able to encounter men who are sport with the fatigues of a long navigation a hot climate, sickness, and bad provisions, and who have no place where they can put in, in those remote latitudes. We may even venture to affirm, that if the Spaniards could once gain the assertion of the Indians, and reconcile them to their dominion, and if they could train them up to navigation, with such a naval force as we have been proposing, no nation on earth would dare to shew its flag in the South Seas. BUT even supposing this is not to be expected, it would still be highly proper to have a squadron always in readiness to be employed in case of a war. In the interval of peace, the men might spend their leisure time in gather-sing
B o o r ing up provisions along the coast, which are wasted for,'IL want of opportunities and means of exporting them this would probably awaken the colonists out of that lethargy into which they have been sunk for these two centuries. When they were once fare that they could send their produce to Panama without any expence, and that it would be conveyed down the Chagre at a mode rate rate, to be flipped off for Europe; they would work wi; h alacrity from a certainty of reaping the benefit of their labour. Possibly in time their emulation might be such as to induce the ministry to dig a canal, five leagues in length, which would complete the communi cation between the two oceans, which is already so far advanced by a navigable river. Government would of course there with the people the benefits that would ac, crue from the execution of this scheme; unless the Spa niards think it their interest to keep the isthmus of Pa nama shut up, as the caliphs of old, who would not open the isthmus of Suez. The welfare of nations and the utility of commerce, loudly call for these two open kings, to facilitate a speedy intercourse between the federal nations. Eastern despotism and Spanish indolence refil that freedom of trade, and that spirit of social equality, which they are unacquainted with. They chuse rather to starve one hemisphere that abounds with riches, ;and to see the other perish with want and slavery, than tq divide the earth and its treasures between als its inhabitants But perhaps, the court of Madrid apprehends that if the two seas were joined, Peru aid Chili.might be invaded by the northern sea: this must now. he inquired into. . , - THE Spanish positions on the northern sea, exrnd from the gulph of Mexico to the Oroonoko. In that immense space, there are en infinite number of places where it is insoluble to land, and. many more where lnd.; lg w-ouid anfiicr no end. All the posts that have,hitherto
hitherto been considered as important, such as Vera n o o K Cruz, Chagre, Porto-bello and Cartagena, are forti vI". sied, and some of them in a very strong manner. ExPERIENCE has shewn that none of there places were impregnable. We know of some nations who are in a condition to seize upon any one that may suit them; and it is not impossible but there may be some one power that has men, money and (hips sufficient to take them all one after another; and, what is still more difficult, to keep them. The consequence would be, that the air of those rich countries, which almost all lie between the tropics, would destroy the conquerors apace. The climate is at all :times dangerous for the Europeans, but mortal for fix months in the year, and pestilential to all foreigners, accustomed to temperate weather, an easy life, and plentiful food. It appears from the most mo derate computations, that three tenths of the French who go over to the American islands are destroyed by the climate, and four tenths of the English; whereas the Spaniards lose but one tenth on the continent, which is much more unwholesome. THOUGH human invention should find out some me thod of subduing the malignity of the climate, yet the conqueror would unavoidably be confined within the fortress he had taken and muff never expect to share the produce of the mines, that are at an immense distance from the sea. It is inconceivable how the boldest and most fertile genius would contrive to penetrate into a desert country, without a possibility of getting at any provisions; how infantry alone could face a numerous and impetuous cavalry; how they could advance through tremendous precipices, in a country where there never was but one bad road, which would certainly be broken up, and force their way through defiles, which five hundred coward could defend against an army of twenty thousand men.,SuPPosE
B o o SUppOSE 211 these miracles were really performed;,is it to be thought that the American Spaniards will submit to any foreign yoke whatever ? From inclination, from laziness, from ignorance, from custom, and from priiLe, they are strictly attached to their religion and their government, and will never conform to new laws. Their prejudices will furnish them with weapons sts- f.:cr.t to repel their conqueror, as the Portuguese, th;vwn into a remote corner of the earth, formerly drove ths Dutch out of Brazil, when they had almost entirely F bdtcd it.,NOTI:NG would then remain to secure the conquest, ru: to defloy ail the Europeans settled there: for such s the wretched fate of conquerors, that after they have seized upon a country, they must extirpate the inhabitants But it would be odious and unjust to surest that any civilized nation would be guilty of that excess of cruelty, which has devoted the Spaniards to the execration of all succeeding ages. Besides, this expedient would be as senseless in a political as it is horrid in a moral light. Every nation would be forced, in order to draw advantages from its new pofl'feons, to sacrifice its own population, activity and industry, and with these its whole power. No people are so ignorant as not to know that from the beginning of the world, every state whose views have been turned to the produce of mines, has miserably perished, or ]anguished in poverty and iavcry. 'YET some maritime power might be so blinded by en thumb fm, as to aim at engrossing those advantages they now sire with rivals. Th-ir intoxication would re present to them the mines carried to double their present value, and culture to a hundred times what it is now; artificers quitting the countries where they are out of remnio3mennt, to incorporate into the nation that would s;p!y America with food ::d rairr.cn;; the ships that,carried
carried the fruits of their industry to the utmost parts of B o o K the earth, rotting in harbours where the cessation of la vLI. hour had put an end to navigation; every branch of trade necessarily falling into the only hands that are the dispensers of all treasures; and the whole world in some measure under the laws of the nation that had invaded all its riches. THIS flattering prosper would most certainly prove the ruin of any nation that should build upon it; but it would involve Spain in long and ruinous wars, which it is necessary and easy to prevent: this may be effected by means of a squadron that might be built in the island of Cuba. Her docks are the more conveniently placed at the Havana, as the coasts that are most frequented by their lips, are for the most part under the torrid zone. The woods of Europe are too soft to resist the excessive heat of that climate, and they dry up; whereas those of the country, grown up and hardened in the hot fun, will keep for ages with a little care. BUT it would be very wrong to confine the use of this navy to the defence of the Spanifh coast. It might be usefully employed in reviving the intercourse between the national colonies, which was formerly interrupted by the privateers, and has been drooping ever since. They should prevent illicit trade, and the disputes it oc passions. They should secure navigation, which is more precarious than ever, since the English were put in possession of Florida by the treaty of 1763. SOME men of restless dispositions, who often apprehend danger where there is none, whilst they do not so much as suspect it where it really is, have suggested that the navigation of Spain might be intercepted at the entrance of the channel of Bahama. The harbour of St. Augustine is only fit for ships 6f a moderate size, and besides, there are so many rapid currents in these latitudes so many reefs and shoals, and such frequent,storms,
B o o storms, that it is impossible for the boldest sailors to', cruise there. It would be a greater misfortune to Spain,,if Great Britain should find a harbour fit to admit a fleet on the coasts of Florida in the gulph of Mexico, which at present are so little known. Possibly this may not be the case; but as the court of Madrid cannot be sure of it, the bes way to guard against such a stroke, is to be provided with a good fqnadron.,THIS would answer another purpose which is full as important. The English colonies in North America are daily augmenting to a degree that excites universal astonishment They may continue under the dominion of the mother country, or perhaps they may shake off the yoke. Whichever is the case, their wants will increase with their population. This is already so considerable, that the old markets are not sufficient for the exportation of their commodities; nor the usual returns enough for their consumption. That deficiency must have been the original! cause of that great ferment, that has lately broke ou: in so alarming a manner. Great Britain does not seem as yet to be aware of the true causes of there commotions, that give her so much uneasiness; but she wis ind it out sooner or later. The English will be fen bible that the only way to restore tranquillity to their possessions abroad, is to give more extent to their trade. Necessity, as much as ambition, will make them con queries in America, and it is most likely the storm will first break over Mexico. Nothing but the naval force of Spain can prevent or avert the impending revolutionist rendezvous for there forces would be very ill placed at the Havana, San Domingo, Vera-Cruz, Porto-bello, or Cartagena, all unhealthy places; but it should be at Bavahonda, between St. Martha and .MIarcybo. That spot, though but little known, unites all the advantages that can be desired; an ex ceiilc harbour of achy access, and easily made im-,a pregnable;
impregnable; great plenty of timber; a very wholesome B O0 o K air; and a soil equally fit for culture and breeding t l. *cattle. The favageswho inhabit that country, and who fish for pearls at Cape Vela, would either withdraw, or continue their peaceable occupations, if they were treated with humanity. From this shelter, the Spanish ships would keep their enemy's settlements in awe, and pro tc& their own. INDEED when they had once fallen to leeward, they could easily come back. The winds blowing regularly from the several points between obuth-eaft and north east, and the currents always setting to westward, must certainly make their passage very tedious. But this in convenience must not be suffered to supersede a pro sect that is so evidently necessary. It would be a great advantage, if this naval force could occasionally proceed to the South Seas; but unfortunately the nature of things will not admit of it. Before the squadron could fail towards the line, it muff go up to the latitude of the freights of Gibraltar, which would be as bad as failing from Europe. All that could be done, would be to train up seamen, and send them over-land, to man the ships that were stationed to protect the coasts of Peru. THE plan of defence we have laid down for Spain, is liable to great difficulties. That monarchy may not be in a condition to raise the necessary supplies for forming a navy, though convinced of the want of it; or able to spare a sufficient flock for the support of it. They may not confide in their managers in the new world, so as to intrust them with so important a concern. These objections, which we mull confess are weighty ones, seem to be unanswerable, in the present slate of languor, inaction, ignorance and dejection of that power, which was once so formidable. But a speedy and spirited re formation, supported by the zeal and authority of go-government,
B o o K government, which would put the people upon thinking, , DI , trying, and acing, would soon dispel a cloud of ob-stables, which are magnified, multiplied, and prolonged by timidity. THESE endeavours to promote the public utility of the colonies, will certainly meet with opposition from those who find their interest in protecting enormous abuses of a long standing; but it will be to very little purpose, if the mother country is resolutely bent upon redressing those grievances. Caen of ALL the political writers who have attempted to ac 'h' day count for the miseries under which Spain has so long been si Spain.,oppressed, have constantly repeated, that the Spaniards finding themselves masters of the treasures of America, had of their own accord given up their manufactures and agriculture. This idea can never have entered into the fyrte-m of any people. Nations do not reason; they are directed or borne away by events, which are in the hands of their rulers. The riches of Americas far from dea roy'i-ig arts, must, and did quicken them. FEabOIN.AN, Toby the conquest of the kingdom of Grenada, had acquired all the manufactures of Spain, which were ain't all in the hands of the Moors; but they had considerably injured the sale of their goods by the expulsion of the Jews. The discovery of America soon gave fresh vigour to industry and commerce. They both increased prodigiously under Charles V, and even under Philip II. In the last years of his reign, the city of Seville alone contained sixty thousand looms for weaving silks. The woollen cloth of Segovia was esteemed the fines in Europe. The Levant and Italy preferred that of Catalonia to any other. The arma ment against England, known by the name of the in vincible Arcadia, and consisting of a hundred and fifty large men of war, is a proof that Spain had at that time a powerful navy, and consequently a very extensive trade by sea. In the cornea of a century, the Spaniards,formed
formed immense and very expensive undertakings. The B o oK wars of the Low Countries and of the League alone colt VII. them three thousand millions of livres c. By these ope rations, they sent infinitely more of their money abroad, than they have since done by trade. IFthey had then been obliged to buy the goods they sent to their colonies, Europe would at that very time have enjoyed the treasures of America, as she does now. In that case, Spain could never have made prodigious armaments by sea and land, paid so many foreign ar mies, fomented divisions in the neighbouring states; Subverted every thing by her intrigues, been the mover of all political events, and the first and almost the only power on earth. THE visible decay of Spain may be dated from the total expulsion of the Moors and Jews in 1611. This decay was so rapid, that some Spanifh writers proposed schemes for the political restoration of their empire, as early as the year 1619. It is easy to conceive what a vacancy the loss of a million of laborious men muff make in their country, at a time when the nobility, who still retained all the prejudices and barbarous privileges of the Visigoths, from whom they boasted their descent, threw all the labour upon that class of men they despised, though in sad the most useful. The military, that destructive profession, was the only one that was entitled to any distinction and the arts, which are the source of affluence; were looked upon as a disgrace. If there was any agri culture, it was because there were slaves. If there was any trade, it was because there were Jews. Lastly, if Spain had any manufactures, it was owing to the Moors; who led a laborious fife, and were loaded with infamy. Government did not consider, that the only way to keep the treasures of America in the mother country, was to encourage industry at home. The only active part of,c 53ir,505CooI. VOL. .D d the
B o o K the ration, the only set of men that could promote that,M. great end, were shamefully banished. In vain did these unhappy fuFi'lers offer the government twenty millions, and they would have given three times as much, for leave to continue where they were born; the same fu perfection that had doomed them to definition, would not sussex their cries to be heard. There was not one power in Europe prudent enough to offer them an asylum, and they were forced to disperse in Africa and Asia. WHILST there unfortunate persons were flying to those barbarous coasts, Spain was exulting in her blind fanaticism; and thought herself fRill the richest power on the face of the globe, little suspecting that the ships that crowded her harbours, were but so many sponges that were draining her vitals. When the Spaniards perceived the diminution of their fpe-ie, they imputed it to the lots of some India lips that had been cast away in their passage home, to the taking of the galleons by the Dutch, and to the badness of their tales. They thought to supply these deficiencies by laying higher du tear on manufactures and artificers. But this burden, which would have been too heavy for many, was into tenable to the few remaining workmen. They fled to Slanders and Italy, or staid at home and threw up their profession. The silks of Valencia, and the fine wool of Andalusia and Castile, were no longer manufactured by the Spaniards.,THE treasury having no more manufactures to oppress, now oppressed the farmers. The taxes levied upon agri culture, were as ill judged as they were various and ex cess e. Betides general duties, there was what the financiers call extraordinary duties, which is a mode of levying money upon a particular class of citizens; a kind of tax which does no good to the fate, and ruins those who are taxed, to enrich the fetish contriver.,These
These resources proving inadequate to the urgent necesse o O K cities of government, the financiers were called upon to , advance considerable sums. At that period it was, that they became masters of the state, and were empowered to farm out the several parts of their lease. This in produced a multitude of agents, and with them num beliefs oppressions. The by-laws that these rapacious men were allowed to enact, were but of many snares to entrap the honest and credulous. In process of time, they usurped the sovereign authority, and found meant to elude the royal tribunals, to chuse private judges for themselves, and to pay them. In short, they came to be judges in their own cause. THE owners of the lands that were crushed by this tyranny, either threw up their estates, or took no pains to improve them. That fertile peninsula, whic:; though subject to frequent droughts, still fed thirteen or fourteen millions of inhabitants before the discovery of America, and had antiently been the granary of Rome and all Italy, was soon covered with thorns ard briars. They contracted the pernicious habit of fixing the price of corn, and contrived to have public granaries in every commonalty, which were consequently managed without either skill or honesty. Befits, what good could be expected to accrue from such deceitful measures ? Who could ever think of hindering corn from fetching a good price, in order to increase the quantity of it; to make the necessaries of life more chargeable, in order to make them cheaper; or to facilitate monopoly, in or der to prevent it ? WHEN once a nation has begun to decline, it seldom flops. The loss of population, of the manufactures, of trade, and of agriculture, was attended with the greatest evils. Whilst Europe was daily improving in know ledge, and all nations were animated with a spirt of industry, Spain was falling into inaction and barbarisms d Ths
B O O K The duties paid at the old custom houses, which wen V'. R still suffered to subsist in the passage from one provinces another, were carried to such a pitch, as to cut offal communication between them. Even the conveyance of money from one to another, was prohibited. In; £short time, not the least sign of a road Was to be seen, Travellers were flopped at the crossing of rivers, when there was neither bridge nor boats. There was not single canal, or one navigable river. The most super factious people in the world, as to the observance ol fast days, suffered their fisheries to drop, and bought fish every year to the amount of twelve millions d. Ex kept a few ill-built vessels destined for their colonies, they had nor a single national ship in their harbours. Their coasts lay exposed to the depredations of the Barbary corsairs. To escape falling into their hands, they were obliged to freight upon foreign bottoms, even the isis they sent to the Canary islands and to America Philip IV, with all the rich mines of America, at once found all his gold turned to copper, and was re duce to set a price to his copper coin, almost equal to that of fil;er.,'THESE were not the greatest grievances of the mo. anarchy. Spain, full of a stupid and superstitious veneration for the age of her conquests, scornfully rejected whatever was not practised in those glorious days. The Spaniards saw all other nations growing more enlightened more exalted, and more powerful, but thought it beneath them to copy after any of them. Their distinguishing character is the highest contempt for the customs and manners of their neighbours. THE inquisition, that tremendous tribunal, set up at firir to stop the progress of Judaism and Mohammedanism, had proved fatal to arts, sciences, and all useful know ledge. Spain indeed was not disturbed or wasted wished 5z5,cc l.,4 religious
religious divisions; but remained stupidly sunk in the B o o K most profound ignorance. Religious disputes, though vi. always bad in themselves, at least exercise the mind. They.put men upon reading and meditating. They make men consult antiquity, study history, and the ancient language.; hence arises criticism, which is productive of solid taste. They soon grow weary of the topic that first inflamed them; the controversy is at an end, but the erudition remains. Religious matters are like those acid and volatile particles that exist in all bodies fit for fermentation. They first cloud the limpid liquor, but soon put the whole mars in motion. In this ferment, they fly off or fink to the bottom. The moment of de duration comes, and nothing remains but a soft, plea sant, and nutritive fluid. But in the general ferment of theological disputes, all the dregs were left in Spain. Superstition had so stupefied the nation, that they gloried in their blindness. INSTEAD of that activity which could alone convey life to the several parts of those wide dominions that lay too much scattered, the Spaniards were so flow in all their motions, that all business was impeded. They went through so many formalities, and took so many precautions not to be cheated, that they never could a&. WAR was no better managed than politics. A population which was hardly sufficient for the many garrisons they kept in Italy, in the Low Countries, in Africa, and in the Indies, put it out of their power to raise an army at home. At the first breaking out of a war, they were obliged to have recourse to foreign troops. The few Spaniards who were sent to fight along with there mercenaries, were so far from being able to manage them, that their own allegiance was frequently shaken by this intercourse. They hive several times been known to join with the foreigners, in ravaging the,D d 3 provinces
B o o provinces that were committed to their care and protects G R tion. A Regular pay would infallibly have prevented, or soon put a stop to this spirit of sedition. But to pay armies, and to keep them in that dependence and sub ordination so necessary to good discipline, government should have suppressed that multitude of needless officers, who by their salaries and their oppressions absorbed the greatest part of the public revenue ; the molt ancient rights of the crown should not have been alienated for a trifling consideration, or suffered to be invaded; nor should the royal treasures have been squandered, to keep spies and to procure traitors in every country. Above all things, the grandeur of the prince should not have been made to consist in granting pensions and favours to all who had no other claim, but that which they derived from their boldness in airing for them this noble and criminal beggary was grown a ge neral fashion. The Spaniard, born generous and grown rout, and disdaining the common occupations of life, aspired after nothing but governments, prelacies, and the chief posts in the magistracy those who could not attain to these preferments, glorying in their proud indolence, still put on the style of the court, and maintained as much gravity in their idleness, as a minister absorbed in state affairs even the lower fort would have thought they defiled their victorious hands, by prostituting them to peaceful labours. The fields and workshops were left to foreign hers, who came and enriched themselves by the indolence of the natives, and carried home a stock to fertilize their own lands. Men born to no property, meanly preferring idle slavery to laborious liberty, eagerly offered themselves to increase that multitude of domestics that the great kept in their retinue, with that pomp which magnificently displays
displays the pride of the most useless, and the degraded O K tion of the mos necessary class of men. THOSE who could not stoop to be menial servants, and had too much vanity to live without some distinction crowded into the convents, where superstition had long since provided a convenient retreat for their laziness, and where folly went so far as to bestow distinctions upon them. EVEN the Spaniards who had decent fortunes, chore to live tingle, rather than be at the pains of providing for a family. Some who did marry, followed the ex ample of the great; they fires gave their sons the super factious education of the colleges, and at fifteen, gave them up to the courtesan. These young people grew old before their time both in body and mind, and wasted their faculties in there infamous connexions, which they did not even break off when they entered into the sacred ties of matrimony. This licentiousness accounts for the decay of population in Spain, where families were formerly as numerous as in any other country. OUT of this degenerate race were taken the men who were to hold the reins of government. Their administration was answerable to their education, being a constant scene of idleness and corruption. They seldom shewed any sense of virtue or equity, or the least desire of promoting the happiness of their fellow-creatures. They thought of nothing but plundering the provinces committed to their care, to go and squander their ill acquired riches in rioting at Madrid. This wickedness al ways went unpunished, though it often occasioned fe editions, insurrections, conspiracies, and sometimes re volutions.,BESIDES all this, the states that were united to Castile by marriage or conquest, help to complete their ruin. The low countries did not bring in enough to pay the garrisons that were kept to defend them. iFriache,D d' 4 Cont
B o o K Comte brought in nothing at all; Sardinia, Sicily and, ,''- v the Milanese less than nothing. The tributes of Naples,and Portugal were mortgaged to strangers. Arragon, Valencia, Catalonia, Roussillon, the Balearic islands and Navarre, pretenatc they owed nothing to the monarchy but a free gift, which was always fettled by their deputies but seldom to the liking of a rapacious court, ex haunted by senseless generosities.,WHILST all was thus running into confusion in Spain, the treasures of America, which at first had only found their way to other European nations by the con tendencies of war and politics, now flowed into them by an easy and peaceable track. As the mother country could not possibly supply the wants of her colonies, this quickened the industry of other nations, which till then had been extremely confined. The natural owners of the riches of America had little left but the duties of the fifth, the insult, guard coflas, customs and commis sion; which have enhanced the value of the commodities but this no further affects the foreign merchants, than as it reduces the consumption; for it all falls upon the Peruvians and Mexicans, who are the consumers. It is by this means that the gold and silver which Am-rica has poured into Europe has got into many hands, and are more equally dilfributed.,IN vain were all foreign nations excluded from trading in any of the American ports, by a severe law enaAed by Ferdinand and Isabella, and confirmed by their successors The more imperious law of necessity has fu perfected this regulation, which was intended to be per petal, and has thrown all that trade into foreign hands. Out of-bout fifty millions' worth of commodities and merchandise that are annually shipped off from Cadiz for the Weft Indies, scarce one eighth is Spanish pro party. The rest belongs to other nations, friends or,2a,8i,Scccl.,foes,
foes, sent in the name of Spaniards, who are always true B O o KC to private persons, and always false to the law. The vl1' honesty of the Spaniards, which:has never been at tainted, has been a security to foreigners in this trade. GOVERNMENT, who could not be ignorant of the mischiefs arising from these perpetual breaches of the law, thought to obviate them by a more absurd one than the former. They prohibited, upon pain of capital pu punishment, the exportation of gold and silver; as if the Spaniards were not obliged to pay for what they wanted to buy. When the execution of this law was enforced, the Spaniard who is the factor at Cadiz for other na tions, delivered the bullion to some bravoes, called Me tears, who being well armed, went upon the ramparts with the bullion all numbered, and tossed it down to other meteors, who carried it to the boats that were waiting for it. They were never disturbed by the sac tors, the customhouse officers or the guards, who all came in for a share in the fraud, justified by the iniquity of the law; and the foreign merchant was never cheated. The prohibition of exporting gold and silver was to so little purpose, that though a prodigious quantity came over every year from America, there was very little seen in the kingdom. Greater severity would only have ad danced the price of goods, by increasing the difficulty of paying for them. If, in conformity to the tr-idcncefs of the proclamations, the delinquent had been apprehended tried, and condemned to death, and all his goods forfeited; such an atrocious deed, far from pre venting, would only have increased the sending money out of the kingdom; bccalife those who had bEfore been content with a moderate profit, would require more when the risque was greater, and would have sent away more money, that they might get the more. The court of Madrid has at last been convinced of the pernicious tendency of this tyranny. The ancient,govcrn-
B O O K governments, who had a due respect for the laws, soul's Yml . certainly have repealed any one, if they had found thaw,the observance of it was absolutely impossible. In our modern times, when kingdoms are governed more by the caprice of administration than by rational principles, Spain has only agreed of late years, that the foreign trade should have all the profit of the goods it should send to America, only paying three per cent. The money was to be transmitted by bankers, fettled for that purpose in the principal cities of Europe. The objet of the ministry was, to make themselves mailers of the trade of piastres, and consequently of the exchange. This plan, which was, perhaps, more extensive thanjuft, has not succeeded. The agents they had made choke of, have betrayed the trust reposed in them. The court of Spain has not persisted in propping up this tottering edifice. Every private man is now at liberty to draw his money from Spain, upon paying the accustomed duties, which in the year 1768 were advanced from three to four per cent. If they were more moderate, government would derive greater advantages from them. There are certain times when the Spanish smugglers can bring the piastres on board the (hips, for a price below the slated value; and it may easily be imagined those opportunities are eagerly seized. c:;- es !whilst the mother country was drooping, the colo ih decay of nies could not possibly thrive. If the Spaniards had un ~- Spao= ,;G:rn understood their true interest, they would, perhaps, on the,firt discovery of America, have been content with establishing an honest intercourse with the Indians, which would have fettled a mutual dependence, and reciprocal profits between the two nations. The manufactures of the old world, would have been bartered for the produce c.f the mines of the new; and wrought iron would have been changed for its weight of inwrought silver. A lapsing union, the necessary consequence of a peace-sable
able traffic, would have been established without blood B o O it sied or devastation. Spain would equally have been vlr. mistress of Mexico and Peru; for any nation that cultivates the arts, and does not impart the process and ex excise of them, will always have an evident superiority over another that buys their produce. THEY did not proceed upon these principles. The ease with which they had subdued the Indians, the ascendant that Charles V. assumed over all Europe, tha natural pride of conquerors, the particular temper of the Spaniards, their ignorance of the true principles of commerce; all there and many other causes, prevented them from giving good laws, a found administration, and a solid basis to their American conquests at first set ting out. THE depopulation of America was the deplorable es fe of this confusion. The first steps of the conquerors were marked with streams of blood. Astonished as much at their own victories, as the savages were at their defeat, and intoxicated with their success, they re solved to extirpate the people they had plundered. In numerable nations vanished from the face of the earth at the arrival of these barbarians ; and all their abominable cruelties have been hitherto imputed to the thirds of gold, joined with fanaticism. BUT the savage nature of man, which was not restrained by the dread of punishment, or by any enCfe of shame, or awed by the presence of civilized witnesses, might so far conceal from the Spaniards the image of an organisation similar to their own, an analogy which is the basis of all moral duties, as to induce them to treat their new-discovered brethren as they did the wild beasts of the other hemisphere, and to do it with as little remorse; that the cruelty of the military spirit is apt to increase in proportion to past, present, and future dangers : that the soldier is of a more,sanguinary
B OO K sanguinary disposition in remote countries than at home; ,Vil and that the feelings of humanity will wear off as a.,man goes further from his native country. It may like wise be conjectured that the Spaniards, who, on their first landing, were taken for Gods, might be afraid of being detected and murdered; that they mistrusted the marks of kindness that were shewn them; that when once they had begun to shed blood, they thought their own safety required that they should proceed on the same plan; that their handful of men, surrounded by an innumerable multitude of natives, whole language they did not underhand, and whose customs and man news they were strangers to, were seized with a panic, either well or ill grounded. But the mot incomprehensible circumstance in all this matter, is the stupid bar rarity of government,' that countenanced all those horrors and kept those profligate men in pay to persecute and destroy their brethren.,TsE Spaniards the descendents or saves of the Visigoths like them divided amongst themselves the desert lands, and the men who had escaped their sword. Aloft of these wretched victims did not long survive, in a a state of slavery worse than death. The laws that were enacted from time to time to alleviate the hardships of their servitude, proved but a small relief. The savage, proud, and rapacious Spaniards r;.d as little regard to the commands of a monarch who was too far remote from them, as to the tears of the poor miserable In Jians. THE mines proved frill a greater cause of diffusion. Ever since the discovery of America, the Spaniards had attended to nothing but this species of wealth. In vain did some sensible men, wiser than the generality of the age, exclaim against this infatuation. Let the gold re rr.;an Xwhrc i: is, said they, provided the surface of the earth that covers it can but produce an ear of corn that,will
will make bread, or a blade of grass to feed your' keep. B o o K The only metal you want is iron. Work it into saws, VIL. hammers, and ploughshares, but not into murderous weapons. The quantity of gold requisite for the pur poses of exchange is so little, that it is needless to lay in an immense flock. It is very immaterial whether a hun died ells of cloth are represented by a pound of gold or by twenty pounds. The Spaniards have done like the dog in the fable, that dropped the meat out of his mouth to bite at the image of it in the water, and was drowned in going after it. UNFORTUNATELY the Indians were the viLims of this fatal error. Those ill-fated men were sent to work under ground, where they were deprived of day-light, of free and wholesome air, of the chief supports of life, and of the comfort of weeping with their friends and relations; and were doomed to dig their own graves in those dark mansions, which now contain more allies of the dead than gold dull. If we consider this barbarous treatment, we cannot but be astonished to hear the co venous and stupid Spaniard complain that the Indians will not tell them of several mines they have discovered both before and since the conquest. Those wretched people would only multiply the means of their own de direction, by betraying the secret they have received from their fathers, or that chance has thrown in their way. THE unhappy Indians whom chance had submitted to the yoke, have therefore fled in great numbers from the lands they cultivated for their rapacious masters, and taken refuge among the savages who wander in the so rests and deserts of the Cordeleras. Those impenetrable recesses are become the asylum of multitudes of Indians, who constantly threaten the Spanish provinces with sudden invasion or open war. They contract a ferocious ncls in those rough climates, which makes them so for amicable, that the Spaniards have been obliged to forsake,some
R o o f ime very rich miles, that lay within reach of their in Veil roads. 'The deficiencies in their population, occasioned,by the barrenness of the soil, the want of forecast, and of the resources of society, are made up by a constant supply of fugitives,, who fly from European tyranny. It is in there mountains that a race is secretly regenerating which will one day assert their lawful rights, and recover their liberty and property out of the cruel and rapacious hands of the usurper and, perhaps, that day is not far off. ANOTHER cause of depopulation is, that the Euro means have taught them new wants, whilst they robbed them of the means of satisfying them. Before the con quest, the Indians went naked,' or made their own gar ments, which was their employment, and a kind of trade. Their whole care was to cultivate a field of maize. They had no occasion for money, and all their traffic confined in exchanging one thing for another. Since the Indian has been taught to live in society, he must have lodging and food, and often have recourse to foreign goods for his clothing. For want of arts and trades, he is unable to purchase these necessaries. He falls into a slate of despondency; and if he did not, his labour would 'hardly bring in enough for his unavoidable expences; o that, the luxury and the poverty which oppress him, have reduced him to the necessity of living in a solitary manner, and to give up all thoughts of his posterity;,THIS care of depopulation brought on another still more dreadful, which made all Europe shudder. The celebrated Drake, having taken the town of St. Domingo in 1586, found that the islanders were grown so desperate that, rather than see their children fall into the hands of the conqueror, they were unanimously come to a resolution to have no connection with their wives. This is the only instance of the kind ever recorded in History, and a finding monument of Spaniel tyranny,,which
which not only sied the blood of the fathers, but pre B o o K vented the existence of the unborn. What else could v- . the Americans oppose to the thirst of destruction than this horrid vow of ceasing to regenerate ? FROM this period there seemed to be a curse upon the land. The empire founded by those barbarous con queries soon sell to pieces. Profligacy made a rapid progress. The most important fortresses smouldered away. The country was left without arms or magazines The soldiers who were neither exercised, fed, nor clothed, became beggars or thieves. The very elements of war and navigation were forgotten; and the very names of the instruments made use of in those two necessary arts. TRADE was but the art of cheating. The gold and silver which were to go into the king's coffers, were continually pilfered, and reduced to a fourth part of what they should have been. All orders of men, cor rusted by avarice, joined to hinder truth from reaching the throne, or to save the prevaricators who were ob noxious to the law. The highest and lowest magistrates always and in concert, to support each other in their injustice. THE confusion occasioned by all these robberies, in produced the fatal expedient of all ill-governed states, that of numberless taxes; as if government were deter mined to discourage industry at any rate. IGNORANCE kept pace with injustice. " I saw, says " a celebrated traveller, the very same sentence passed " in one and the same tribunal, and almost within the " same hour, in two cases that were directly opposite. " All endeavours to make the judges understand the dis terence was to no purpose. At last the chief judge, " seeming to be convinced, rose up, and tucking up his " whiskers, swore by the holy virgin, and all the faints, " that the English Lutherans had run away with pope's 7Ju;inianS
o 0 K "7 .justinian's books, which he always made use of to Ovid. ," try intricate causes: but if those dogs should ever," come again, he would have them all burnt. THE same traveller relates that " one day Ovid's " Metamorphoses .sell. into the hands of a creole, miscarried it to a friar, who understood no more of rt " than himself, and made the inhabitants believe it " was en English bible: he proved it by the prints " bhe hewed them at ever .Metamorphosis, saying; see c how these dogs worship the devil, and how he trans forms them into beasts. Then the pretended bible "was thrown into a fire kindled on purpose, and the " monk made a long oration, which consisted of thanks " giving to St. Francis for this lucky discovery." As ignorance is always favourable to superstition, the ministers of religion, without being more enlightened than others, took the lead in all business. As they were less liable to punishment, they were always the fires to violate all principles of equity, and all rules of morality and decency. The best among them were traders, and the rest took advantage of their ecclesiastical power to extort from the Indians all they were possessed of. A Spanish monk who did not make at least a hundred thousand livres in a short trip to America was reckoned an ill manager. Their rapaciousness was often voluntarily gratified at their arrival by presents of immense value. One would have imagined that America had been conquered for no other purpose than to ornament the churches and to enrich the clergy. THE hatred that commenced between the Spaniards born in America, and those who came from Europe, completed their ruin. The court had imprudently laid the foundation of these unhappy divisions. The Creoles were represented to them as little better than barbarians, and much the same as Indians. They thought they,f 4,3-.could,could
could not depend upon their skill, their courage, or their B o o K fidelity, and therefore determined to exclude them from {1' all places of trust and profit. They were offended at this injurious resolution. Far from endeavouring to sooth them, those who were invested with authority over them, made it their business to exasperate them by mor trying partialities. This produced an inveterate hatred between the two classes, one of which was loaded with favours, and the other stigmatized with disgrace. This animosity has broke out more than once in such a manner as to endanger the dominion of the mother country in the new world; and will tome time or other occasion a revolution. There revolutions will certainly take place, and, perhaps, are not far off; for the clergy on both sides, who have adopted the same hatred and ani modifies, will never forego them, and will endeavour ac cording to the spirit that has always actuated them to make the people irreconcilable. SINCE the accession of the Bourbon family to the throne of Charles V. these disorders, and the evils arising from them, have abated a little. The nobility do not aflct those high airs of royalty which often perplexed the government. The management of public affairs is not now confined to persons of high birth, but is given to men in favour, men of fortune or of merit. The pro duce of the general and provincial revenues of Spain, which a detestable administration had reduced to less than eight millions g towards the latter end of the last century, now brings in 72,656,805 livres b. This happy change which began by the mother country, extended after vwrds to the colonies. The three departments that are intrusted with the management of their affairs in Eu rope, have gradually luit lbniething of that evil spirits 35j,czi. ^ ;,7,35I 4l 41. 4 Vet. 11. E e which
I o o K which seemed to preside over their proceedings. The V. council for Indian affairs being removed, takes better cares their government and preservation. The contraction removed from Seville to Cadiz, manages their trade with greater fill. The consulate, which takes cognizance of the differences arising between the merchants trading to that part of America, and is appointed to watch over the maintenance of their privileges, has acquired a greater degree of activity and knowledge. Mean that THESE first seps towards a reformation mull be an tpa oUht' encouragement to the Spanish ministry to hope they todre-ti- will attain to a good administration, when once they are bligh i/eli.,acquainted with the true principles, and employ the proper means. The character of the nation is not an invincible obstacle to this change, as it is too generally thought to be. Indolence is not so natural to them as we imagine. If we look back to the times when this unfavourable prejudice was first conceived, we shall find that this languor did not extend to every thing; and that if Spain was idle at home, the was not so abroad, but was incessantly disturbing the repose of her neighbours. Her idleness proceeds in a great measure from foolish pride. Because the nobility did nothing, the people imagined it was noble to do nothing. They all wanted to enjoy the same prerogative; and the starved, half-naked Spaniard, careless fitting on the ground, looks with pity on his neighbours, who are well clothed, live well, work, and laugh at his folly. The one despises from a motive of pride, what the others seek after from vanity; the conveniences of life. The climate made the Spa niard abstemious, and indigence renders him more so. The monks spirit, which has long governed him, makes a virtue of that poverty which is the result of vice. As he has nothing, he covets nothing; but he hates work still more than he despises riches.,THAT
THAT poor and proud people have nothing left of B O o K their ancient character, but an immoderate fondness for every thing that has the appearance of grandeur. They must be flattered with chimerical ideas, and with an immense prospect of glory. The satisfaction they feel in depending on none but the crown since the abasement of the grandees, makes them receive all that comes from the court with respect and confidence. This powerful influence might be made subservient to their happiness. Some means might be contrived to persuade them that labour is honourable, and the nation will soon become again what it was before the discovery of America, in those glorious times, when, without any foreign aid, Spain threatened the liberties of all Europe. WHEN the imagination of the people is once properly directed, and they are brought to blush at their proud inaction, other evils ills be attended to. The most dangerous to the bulk of the nation is the want of population. Well-governed colonies will naturally in crease the population of the mother country, which on her side promotes the increase of theirs, by supplying them with advantageous marts for the produce of their industry. It is on this plan, alike interesting to humanity and found policy, that the more enlightened nations of Europe have formed their settlements in America. This wise and noble design has in all parts been crowned with success. Spain alone, which had formed her system in a darker age, has seen her population decrease at home, in proportion as her possessions increased abroad. Where the disproportion between the extent of a territory and its inhabitants is not extreme, the balance may be gradually reformed by activity, oeconomy, great encouragements given to matrimony, and a long peace.,e2 Spain,
Bo o K Spain, whose population, in the year 1747, amounted,to no more than 7,423,590 fouls, including 180.046 ecclesiastics; and who has now in her colonies little more than the twentieth part of the population there was soon after the conquer, cannot remedy this evil either at home or abroad without new and extraordinary efforts. To increase the laborious classes of men, there muff be a reduction of the clergy, which alike enervates and devours the state. Two thirds of her military forces muff be diminished, and restored to the arts; since her connection with France, and the weakness of Portugal no longer render them necessary. As their clear revenue is 112,CCo,000i, and the standing out-goings are but 96,coo,oco k, government muff think seriously of easing the people, as soon as their possessions in both hemisphere are extricated from that confusion into which they had been thrown, by two whole centuries of incapacity, ignorance and tyranny. Above all things, the infamous tribunal of the inquisition muff be abo tilled, which seems to be levelled equally against the monarch and the people, by keeping both under the yoke of stupid and blind filperitition.,SUPERSTITION, whatever may be the reason of it, pre wails among all nations, whether rude or civilized. No doubt it proceeds from the fear of evil, and from the ignorance of its causes or of its remedy. At least this is enough to imprint it in the minds of all men. The ca vanities of nature, plagues, sickness, unforeseen accidents destructive phenomena, all the latent causes of pain and death, are so universal on earth, that it would be very surprising if man had not been deeply affected by them at all times and in all countries.,BL r this natural fear muff always have increased, or have been magnified in proportion to ignorance and fen-,1 4,9crcC 1. k 4.,2oo,ccs Risibility,
nobility. It must have given rise to the worship of the B o o K elements that do most mischief on earth, such as inun- V I . nations, conflagrations and plagues; the worship of ani mass, whether venomous or voracious, but always hurt ful; the worship of men who have done the greatest mischief to mankind, of conquerors, of fortur ate impostors of the workers of prodigies, apparently good or bad; the worship of invisible and imaginary beings, supposed to lie concealed in every instrument of mischief. Mie citation and the Study of nature must have insensibly lessened the number of there invisible agents, and the human mind muff have risen from idolatry to theism but this last simple and sublime idea will always have remained imperfect and confused in the minds of the vulgar, and mixed with a multitude of errors and fan lies. REVELATION had confirmed the pure doctrine of one only being; and, perhaps, a more incorrupt religion would then have been established, had not the northern barbarians, who poured in upon the several provinces of the Roman empire, brought along with them their own sacred prejudices, which could not be dispelled but by other fables. Unfortunately christianity was preached to minds incapable of understanding it thoroughly. They would not embrace it, unless it was attended with that pomp and chew, of which ignorance is so fond. In terest loaded and disfigured it more and more, inventing every day new doctrines and miracles, which were the more revered as they were less credible. The nations, engaged during twelve centuries in dividing and contest ing about the several provinces of universal monarchy, which one nation had formed in le's than two hundred years, admitted without examination all the errors which the priests, after much controversy, had agreed to teach She multitudes e 3 BUT
B 0 0 K BUT the clergy, too numerous to agree long, had V, Vl . cherished the feeds of division, which they must sooner,or later communicate to the people. The time came when the same spirit of ambition and avarice that devoured the whole church, rose up with great ani mofity against many superstitions that were universally adopted. As it was from custom that the people had received all those puerile notions with which they had suffered themselves to be soothed, and that they were not at tacked to them from national principles or party spirit, those who were most interested in supporting them, were unable to defend them, when they were attacked with that steadiness that was calculated to fix the attention of the public. But nothing so much promoted the reforma tion of Luther and Calvin, as the liberty they granted to every one to examine and pass his 'own judgment, upon the religious principles he had been taught. Though the multitude was incapable of undertaking this discussion, every one was proud of managing his own concerns in so great and important an affair. The commotion was so general, that it is not improbable the new opinions would every where have triumphed over the old, had not the magistracy thought it their interest to item the torrent. Implicit obedience was as necessary for the support of the supreme magistracy, as for that of religion, and was the surest foundation of its authority. Monarchs were afraid that those who had once overturned the old and firm foundations of Ro mich hierarchy, might next proceed to examine into their owl prerogatives. The republican spirit which naturally spread itself among the reformed, contributed to increase this distrust. THE kings of Spain, more jealous of their power than other sovereigns, endeavoured to support it, by efta-,1 blushing
blushing a more uniform system of superstition. They B o o K were not aware that the opinions of men concerning an V ' unknown Being cannot be all alike. In vain did reason expostulate with those weak monarchs, alledging that no power had a right to prescribe to men what they were to think; that society, in order to ficpc.lrt itself, is under no necessity of restraining the freeodui, of the foul; and that to compel men to subscribe to certain articles of faith, is to exact a false oath, which makes a man a traitor to his conscience, in order that he may be a faithful subjea ; and that a citizen who serves his country, is, in a political light, preferable to him who is orthodox to no purpose. These permanent and in constable principles were not attended to. They were overruled by the prospect of a great advantage, and still more by the furious outcries of a multitude of fanatical priests, who delayed not to assume the supreme authority. The prince, become the slave of these priests, was forced to abandon his subjects to their caprices; to sussex them to be oppressed, and to become idle spectators of the cru elties exercised against them. From that time, superstitious manners, beneficial only to the priesthood, became prejudicial to society. A people thus corrupt and degenerate were the most cruel of all people. Their obedience to the monarch was subordinate to the will of the prielf; who oppressed every other power, and was in faA the sovereign of the state. INACTION was the necessary consequence of a super station that enervated all the faculties of the foul. The projet which the Romans formed from their very in fancy of becoming masters of the world, shewed itself even in their religion. It was ViAory, Bellona, For tune, the genius of the Roman people, Rome herself, that were their gods. A nation that aimed at treading in their steps, and thought of becoming conquerors, adopted a monkish government, which has destroyed every e 4 prospect
B o o K prospect of success, and will effectually prevent theirref-, . oration either in Spain or in America, unless this kinds government itself is totally subverted. The suppression of the inquisition must certainly hasten this great change; and it is pleating to think that if the court of Madrid will not determine upon this necessary step, they will one day' be compelled to it by a humane conqueror, who will insert it as the first article in a treaty of peace, that the autos-danse shall be abelijcd in all the Spanish do moriens bat, at hS.mc and abroad. THsoucGH this measure is necessary towards the restoration of the monarchy, it is not alone sufficient. Though Spain has been more assiduous to conceal her weakness, than she need have been to acquire strength, the world is not unacquainted with her infirmities. They are of such long standing, and of so deplorable a nature, that they cannot be remedied without foreign aids. If (he will but submit to accept them, she will soon see her provinces in both hemispheres filled with new inhabitants, who will bring with them a thousand branches of industry. The northern and southern na tions, actuated by that passion for riches which is the characteristic of our age, will lock to the regions that are thrown open to their emulation. The fortune of the public will keep pace with private fortunes. Those of foreigners will become national wealth, if those who have amassed them can enjoy them with such safety, comfort and definition, as to forget their native country. IF the Spaniards mean to bring this great work to a speedy issue, they mus not only admit strangers of their own persuasion, but encourage cvcry fcc without distinction to come and fettle among them. They have too long thou ht that liberty of conscience must be founded on the Mit r.';;.:rous impiety, and that to!e- r-:.on. v.s even imo lc, aa t;;c .u;;dan.csc.l princi-,plcQ
pit of all fois was to detest one another, and sooner B o o K or later to diflraa the governments where they multi y plied. If the heathen had reasoned in this manner, christianity would never have been established ; at least it is evident that their persecutions against the founders of our religion would need no apology. WHEN the Spaniards have once got people to work, they will employ them in the molt advantageous man ner. They were grieved to see the treasures of America go into the hands of their rivals and enemies, and imagined the only way to keep Come at home, would be to revive their own manufactures. Those of their writers upon finance who have insisted upon this system, appear to us to be in the wrong. As long as the people who are in possession of those manufactures which serve to supply the demands of America, shall attend to the preservation of them, the manufactures, which may be attempted to be established in other parts, will scarce be able to vie with them. They may possibly procure the materials and workmanship as cheap, but it will be a long time before they can work as quick, and attain to the same degree of perfeCtion. Nothing could effect this great change, but such a revolution as would remove the best foreign workmen and the most skilful artists to Spain. Till this period arrives which does not seem very near, any attempts that are made, will not turn out successfully. A very intrusive experiment has been made of this point, when the exportation of inwrought goods was prohibited. The prohibition on silks only served to essen the goodness of them, the working of them was ne gleCed, and would have totally fallen, had not govern ment wisely restored trade to its ancient freedom. WE may go further still, and venture to affirm, that though it should be in the power of Spain to procure a superiority in the manufactures repeating articles of luxury, she ought not to do it. A transient,fuccefi
B o o r success would be attended with irretrievable ruin. Let Vil". us for once suppose that the monarchy can furnish all,the commodities that are wanted in her colonies; the immense treasures this trade will brin in, will all center in home circulation, and the conference will be, that money will fink in value. This plenty of carl will certainly occasion a dearness of provisions, and enhance the price of labour. There will be no proportion left between Spain and the neighbouring nations. These, as they will be able to afford their commodities cheaper, will force the Spaniards to take them, because an exorbitant profit will surmount every obstacle. The latter, wanting employment, must go and seek it elsewhere, and Spain will at once lose her industry and her po pulation.,SINCE then it is impossible that the Spaniards should keep the whole produce of the American mines in their own hands, and as they must unavoidably share it with the rest of Europe, their whole policy must tend to preserve the greatest share, to keep the balance inclining to their side, and not to make their own advantages ex cefive, that they may be permanent. This superiority will be secured by the practice of the necessary arts, and the plenty and goodness of their natural produce tions.,THE Spanish ministry have been aware of this, but have been mistaken in thinking that the manufactures were the chief promoters of agriculture. It is an un deniable truth, that the manufactures do promote the culture of lands. They are even necessary, wherever the expence of carriage slops the circulation-and con gumption of the produce, so that the cultivator is at a loss how to dispose of his commodities. But in all other cases, the cultivator can do without the encouragement of the manufactures. If he can but dispose of his pro duce, he cares little whether it is for local consumption,
or for trade and exportation, and will go on with his B o o K tillage. - SPAIN annually fells for exportation, in wool, silk, oil, wine, iron and kali, to the amount of above thirty millions 1. These exports, molt of which cannot be re placed from any soil in Europe, are susceptible of great increase, and might, probably, be more than doubled. They will suffice, independent of the Indies, to pay for all the foreign goods that can be consumed in the nation. We grant that by thus sending their inwrought produce abroad, they will increase the population, the wealth and the power of other nations ;. but they will cherish a more certain and more beneficial kind of in dusty at home. Their political existence will soon claim a relative superiority, and the cultivating nation will have the advantage over the manufacturing nations. AMERICA will greatly enhance this superiority; and will be beneficial to Spain, both by her gold and silver, and by her commodities. IT appears from the moRs moderate computation, that Means,which those valuable colonies have poured into the mother Sprinought country, from 1492 to 1740, that is, in the compass of to e:ploy,for the re 248 years, upwards of 9ooo,ooo,ooo of piastres , the establish smallest part of which has remained to the natural oelnt£f ts,col1Iies. owners; the rest has spread all over Europe; or been carried into Alia. From the first of January 1754 to the last day of December 1764, we need not trust to conjecture. Within that period, Spain has received, FROM Vera Cruz, in gold, 3,151,354 piastres 5 reals '; and in silver, 85,899,307 piastres 2 reals °. FROM Lima, in gold, 10,942,846 piastres 3 reals P; in silver, 24,868,745 piastres 3 reals s.,1 i,312,5001. m 2,025,000,0001. 709,054L. 15s. lid. * 9,327,3441. s. ad. P a,46z,140- . 35. 9d. 5,595,4671. is. 3d.,FROM
BOO K From Buenos Ayres, in gold, 2,142,626 piastres ¥i. 3 reals ; in silver, 10,326,090 piastres 8 reals'.,FROoM Cartagena, in gold, 10,045,188 piastres 8 reals '; in silver, 1,702,174 piastres 3 reals °.,FROM Honduras, in gold, 37,254 piastres 9 reals '; in silver, 677,444 piastres 7 reals '. FROM the Havannah, in gold, 656,064 piastres 3 reals r; in silver, 2,639,4c8 piastres 2 reals z.,FRo:. Caracca, in gold, 52,034 piastres 4 reals '; in filmer, 2;6,C02 piastres 6 reals b.,FP.OI St. Domingo and Porto Rico, in gold, 526 piastres 5 reals c in silver, 317,521 piastres I real '. FRom. Campeachy, Cumana, and Maracaibo, in gold, 9g,564 piastres 6 reals'.,THIS makes in all 27,027,896 piastres in gold f, and 126,798,258 piastres 8 reals 5 in silver. These two sums put together, amount to a total of 153,826,154 piastres 8 reals h. This sum divided by eleven, will (hew that the returns, upon an average, have been 13,984,185 piastres and 3 fourths i. To all there riches must be added those that are not registered to avoid paying duty, which may amount to somewhat more than one fourth of what is registered; and it will appear that the mother country annually receives from her colonies about seven teen millions of piastres, or 19,250,o00 livres k.,THERE would be a possibility of increasing this pro duce. For this purpose the government Should fender 4S:,o S. ol S d. ,S3, . s. d. , ,7 . . 8d. t :,:6c,1i6l. Ss. 5-,9Sg1. 4s. 9 d.,' S,;-1-. Ss. ;d. 15z, ;;l. zs. 'd. 7r 4-:,i-l. gs. 9d- · g;,S,61. ds!. 2-d. a llz-sI. i. 4d. 4 h 62,Iccl. Izs. 6d. c tI: 1. cs. I:d. a ,.; :t. 5js. d. ' :c,6:l. :s- 6d. f ces 1,1761. 7s.,$ ;:-,;1' 5 ; . S . ; aa.io.S41 s. Sd. i :.,;.' . J; ills. k15 . Ab, ut ;504,c60o.,over
over to America some persons skilled in metallurgy, and B o o K abate something of the terms on which they allow the Vil. working of the mines. But this would be only a transient advantage, for this plain reason, that gold and silver are not riches, but only the representatives of them. These signs are very durable, as they ought to be to answer their destination. The more they are multiplied, the more they lose of their value, because they represent fewer things. In proportion as they are grown more common since the discovery of America, every thing is grown twice, thrice, and four times as dear as before. The produce of the mines has been worth less and less, and the expence of working them has been continually increasing. The balance, which inclines more and more to the losing side, may so far destroy the equi poise, that it may be found necessary to drop this sources wealth. But at all events, it will be advisable to render these operations more simple, and to try every possible method to make this labour less destructive to the human race than it has been hitherto. There is another source of prosperity for Spain, which will be so far from de saying, that it will daily gather new strength; and that is agriculture. ALL nations have found it dangerous to allow the establishment of manufactures in their possessions in America, but they have all encouraged culture by every possible means. If Spain adopts so rational a principle, she will probably save twelve or thirteen millions that are annually expended in the single article of spices. It is hardly possible that in all that vast extent of land and that variety of climates, there should not be some spots in America fit for the culture of cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and other aromatics of Asia. It is certain that cinnamon grows at Quito, and cultivation might give it the properties it wants.,WHETHEa
B O O K WHETHER these experiments succeed or not, they v. may certainly cultivate coffee, which is more and more,used in Europe; cotton, which our manufactures are frequently in want of; and sugar, which Spain buys to the amount of above five millions ' a year, whereas The ought to supply all Europe with it. MANY provinces of Mexico formerly produced ex excellent silks, which were manufactured at Seville. This commodity has been lost, by the many obstructions that were thrown in its way; but it might easily be revived and improved the Vicuna wool is in great request in all nations. What the fleets bring home, falls far short of the de and. The fort of sheep that bears this fine wool, might easily be multiplied in the climates that are fittest for them. THE excessive dearness of cochineal, and the great demand there is for it every where, points out to Spain the necessity of multiplying it. BuT what ought above all things to be encouraged, is the vine and the olive tree, the cultivation of which is not allowed only in one part of Peru. Some small wandering nations might be fixed by this labour. If they were properly distributed, they would serve to establish an intercourse between the several colonies, now separated by immense and uninhabited regions. The laws, which have no power over men who are at too great a distance from each other and from the ma nitrate, could then be enforced. Commerce would not be perpetually interrupted by the impossibility of con eying the goods to the place of their destination, even at a great expence. In case of a war, early notice would be given of the danger, and speedy and effectual affiance procured. If Spain were hereby deprived of some few exports, this trifling loss would be greatly lS,75ol.,over-
over-balanced by the molt solid advantages. The easiest B 0 0 K part of the labour we recommend, would fall to the lot of the natives, who are too indolent, and, perhaps, too weak, to go through harder work. The rest would be reserved for the more active robust African laves. THIS foreign aid was thought of in the first years after the discovery of America, but was soon prohibited, from an apprehension that the blacks corrupted the Americans, and might excite them to revolt. Las Casas, who incessantly laboured to promote the happiness of the Indians, obtained a repeal of that law, as think ing it prejudicial to their preservation. At that period, a favourite obtained an exclusive grant for carrying four thousand negroes to the Leeward islands. He sold his privilege to the Genoese, who made an ill use of their monopoly. This odious trade was successively in the hands of the Caftillians, the Portuguese, the French, and the English. It is at last come back to the Spa niards, who carry it on in the least advantageous way for the interest of their country. Their most dangerous enemies become their agents, and all their connexions are with British fubjeas. IF political considerations can justify a trade so repugnant to humanity, Spain ought to carry it on without the assistance of foreigners ; and must not be discouraged by the want of forts on the coast of Africa. This ob stable may be surmounted by receiving directly from the East Indies the commodities that are fit for those barba rous regions; by giving bounties to encourage the in production of negroes into the Spanish colonies, instead of clogging it with duties. Then those countries, which have lo long been in a drooping condition, will all re vive j and their produce, which at present does not ex need twenty-seven or twenty-eight millions of livres m a - will know no bounds, but such as will be pre-,v On an average 1,2S3x.5t.,fcribed
B 0 K scribed by the whole consumption of Spain and of all v"" Europe's-HEN government has put the working of the mined upon a better footing, and improved the culture of the American provinces, the next thing to be attended to will be, how to convey those riches to the mother country. Experience must have taught her that the vi glance of her guard cofias, and the fidelity of her com manners are often and easily eluded by the contraband trade. ALL the nations whose settlements are within reach of the Spanish colonies, have always fought, by fraudulent means, to appropriate to themselves the treasures and produce of that indolent nation. The Portuguese have turned their views towards the river Plata; the Danes, the French, and the Dutch, upon the coast of Cartagena and Porto Bello. The subjects of Great Britain, who were not unacquainted with all those ways, have found in the cessions made to them by the last treaty, a ready way of getting a larger share of those rich fails. They have all carried their point, by de ceiling or bribing the guard costs; but the English sure of being countenanced by government, have openly and by force, in full p-ace, carried on an illicit trade in foreign countries, which in their own is punished with death. This kind of trade is so openly authorized by their naval force, that there is actually a public contract between the navy and the merchants, whereby the man of war is entitled to five per cent. on the sale made by the interloper, as a reward for protecting him. ''!E ogv.rnors are ft.l more remits in their duty thin. il *'irda coal Though corruption is carried b. ,!,i-mil bounds in; Spain, it is still worse in the In d i. Frown th 'iccrovs down to the lowest cuftonl- has cat Does. , ot one goes to America with the lecit,p; inc;)pi
principles patriotism about him. They have all bought B 0 o K their places; and are desirous of making the most of V" them; every one is in haste to make his fortune, the only motive that induced him to leave his country; every one will have an adequate compensation for the danger he has exposed himself to by a change of climate They muff improve every instant of time, as they seldom keep their places longer than three or five years. One would think the court of Madrid, not be ing able to prevent this extortion, has fought to ren der it lets odious, by making it more general. EVERY mode of acquiring riches is deemed lawful; The most common is to permit the contraband trade, and even to be concerned in it. It is easy, expeditious and pleasant. In America none oppose it, because it suits every person. If the complaints of some European merchants reach the court, the matter is soon hushed up by some timely gratuities to ministers, confessors, mistresses or favourites. The delinquent not only escapes punishment, but is rewarded. Nothing is so well established or so generally known as this practice. A Spa niard just returned from America, where he had filled an important post, was complaining to a friend of the in curious reports that were spread concerning the discharge of his trust. If you are slandered, says his friend, you are undone; but if your extortions are not exaggerated, you have nothing to do but to give up part of the plunder, and you will enjoy the remainder peaceably, and even with credit the question is how to eradicate abuses of such a long standing, As long as the management that has given rise to them shall subsist, the smuggler will carry on his trade, and those who are appointed to prevent it will protect him. Spain will never restore good order, but by lowering the duties, and altering her method of intercourse with her colonies. VOL. II. Fs THS
1 o o K THE Spaniards, whose situation will not admit of vu ' their manufacturing all they want to supply their American colonies, muff appropriate to themselves the la hours of every nation in Europe. They must consider themselves as merchants in the midst of manufacturers. They muff supply them with materials; pay them a reasonable price for their labour, by making a proper allowance for the additional value their industry has given to the natural productions; and then they must dispose of them to the best advantage to the several con sumers.,THESE maxims are too simple to have escaped them; but they have made wrong application of them. They have always been miffed by their wants or their eagerness after gain. They have constantly separated the interests of the crown from those of the people, and, therefore, have found no impropriety in laying the duties too high. None of their ministers seem to have considered, that the riches of the people are the true riches of the bate. Possibly, they may have been so blind as to imagine, that the burden of these duties sell upon the original owners of the goods. We can hardly doubt their acting upon this principle, when we see that every intimation for lower ing the duties has been rejected, as ruinous to the mo anarchy. That pernicious spirit of finance, which spoils more and more the trade of Europe, has damped the direct intercourse that was formerly carried on be tween the mother country and her colonies. The con brabant trade has grown brisker in proportion as the du ties have been raised; but it will be put an end to, whenever the tariff is fettled at a moderate rate, and na navigation is freed from those fetters which impede its progress those who are of opinion that the common method of fleets and galleons is the best, have been misled by sltom,.,which is so apt to govern the opinions of mgft,men,
men. They were not aware that this tedious method B o o Ft would necessarily prove destructive. The illicit traders, v informed by their emissaries of the wants of the colo nies, and abundantly provided with all they can be in need of, always arrive before the Spanish ships, who, finding the Storehouses full, are forced to sell under prime cost; or, which is still worse, cannot sell at all. If, to prevent this inconvenience, they are sent out later, this is an additional encouragement to the inilug* glens, who are always alert, and continually pouring in fresh supplies. To prevent this ruinous competition, it has often been proposed to the Spanish government to establish trading companies for the commerce of America ; but the court of Madrid has always rejected this scheme, as a pernicious monopoly, worse, perhaps, than the toleration of an illicit trade. Though ignorant of the true principles, they were sensible that exclusive privileges, always prejudicial even to the most alive nations, gulf necessarily prove ruinous to one, whole industry is not sufficiently quickened. NOTHING but an entire freedom in the trade from Cadiz, can put an effectual flop to smuggling, and give commerce all the scope it will admit of. It is the in terete of Spain, as well as of all other nations that have colonies in America, to carry thither great quanti ties of the produce and commodities of Europe, and to bring home much of those of America. These measures are inseparably connected. The one is impossible with out the other, and both are inconsistent with restraint. THE colonies will find a great advantage in this sys ten, which will bring plenty into their ports. A com petition among many fellers, ever was and ever will be an advantage to the buyer. BY this happy change, the mother country will appease the murmurs of some persons, who have grown difcon-,I f 2 tented
B o o K tented either because they have been left unprovided '.r with the necessaries of life, or have been forced to paean extravagant price for them. The cheapness of all commodities will occasion the fall of some manufactures, which had been set up out of mere necessity, and which could not safety be put down by authority. She will turn the labours of industry towards agriculture, which will then become, as it ought to be, the most pro stable employment. Lastly, the will double, and, per laps, treble her navigation, which is now so flow in its operations, as to endanger public property, and too often expose it to fall into the hands of an enemy.,ALL the European nations that are concerned in this trade, will carry it on to better advantage. If the method of carrying it on by a fleet of ships, which limits the quantity of goods that may be shipped at Cadiz, is more favourable to the few merchants concerned in that business, a freedom to every one to send over as much as he pleases, on paying the du ties, will reduce the price and increase the consumption of the commodities. More trade will then be carried on in Europe. The profit of each nation will be greater, though that of each private man will be Less. The first of these advantages is infinitely preferable to the last. WE are sensible that this free trade, which we think absolutely necessary, will no sooner be opened, but it will be carried to excess by a boundless emulation. This must be expected from the eagerness and imprudence of the merchants. Perhaps, it may be beneficial. The mother country will have exported a greater quantity of her produce, and received richer returns. The colonists, encouraged by the cheapness of the goods, will allow themselves some indulgences they never could yet as ford, will feel new wants, and consequently will apply themselves to new labours. Traders, after some lofics,,will
will be more circumspect and more diligent. Even sup B o o K poling that too great a competition could ever be a real a . evil, it could never be a lasting one. To endeavour to prevent it by laws that would be destructive of all freedom, would be the means of preventing a happy re volition by a perpetual oppression. As soon as Spain is undeceived, the trade of her colonies will no longer be a mere monopoly, her religion mere superstition, and her government absolute tyranny. Her good example and a happy rivalihip, may, possibly, induce Portugal, which has hitherto shewn very little more prudence than Spain, to adopt the same plan of reformation with re gard to the Brazils.,END OF THE EIGHTH BOOK.,Fs3 BOOK
BOOK IX. element of tie Portuguese in the Brazils. The wars they have efujained there. Produce and riches of that colony. B O OK 'Rail is an immense continent in South Ame-,u s .i. rica. It is bounded on the north by the river of Difcc'vyof the Amazons, on the South by Paraguay, on the weft,pv Fp o - by a long ridge of mountains that divide it from Peru, ;-s:: sand on the east by the northern ocean. The extent of,the sea coast is supposed to be no less than twelve hun died leagues. The inland parts are too little known to form any estimate of their extent. A succession of hills runs all along from north to south, from whence issue many large rivers, some of which fall into the ocean, and rome into the Plata.,IF Columbus, in his third voyage in ree, had turned his course to the south-when he came to the entrance of the Oronooko, he could not have failed of finding the Brazils; but he chose to steer to the north weft, towards the gulph that lies between that river and Florida. The settlements already made there, the gold they produced, and the hopes of finding a way to the East Indies, were so many inducements to pursue that track. PETER ALVAREZ CABRAL had the honour of ma king that discovery the following year by chance. That Portuguese admiral was going with a fleet beyond the Cape of Good Hope. To avoid falling in with the calms on the coast of Africa, he kept so far out, that,7 he
he came within fight of an unknown land lying to B o o K westward. He was driven thither by stress of weather, IX. and anchored on the coast in the isti degree of south latitude, at a place which he called Porto-Seguro. He took possession of the country, but made no settlement in it, and gave it the name of Santa Cruz, which was afterwards changed fur that of Brazil, because the Brazil wood was the most valuable production of that country to the Europeans, who used it in dying. As this country had been discovered in going to the Indies, and it was doubtful whether it was not a part of them, it was at first comprised under the same de nomination, but was distinguished by the appellation of Weft Indies, because the Portuguese went to the India by the east, and to the Brazils by the weft. This name was afterwards extended to all America, and the Americans were very improperly called Indians. THUS it is that the names of places and things, ac accidentally given by ignorant men, have always perplexed philosophers, who have been desirous of tracing their origin from nature, and not from casual circumstances, merely accessory, and oftentimes quite foreign to the natural properties of the objects denoted by them. No thing can be more strange, for instance, than to see Eu rope transplanted into America, and there regenerated, as it were, in the names and forms of our European cities, and in the laws, manners, and religion of our continent. THE court of Lisbon ordered a survey to be taken of the harbours, bays, rivers, and coasts of Brazil, but finding the country afforded neither gold nor silver, they despised it to such a degree, as to send thither none but men obnoxious to the laws, and abandoned women. "Two (hips were sent every year from Portugal, to Account of,lie fl) ,carry the refuse of the kingdom to this new world, lonits, cent and to bring home parrots, and woods for the dyers by port'-,pal t,, lt., and cabinet makers. Ginger was afterwards added, but Brarils.,Fs 4 was
B c C K was soon prohibited, as being detrimental to the India I ,, trade asia was then the great object of pursuit. It was the high road to fortune and preferment. The splendid exploits of the Portuguese, and the wealth they brought from India, gave their nation such a superiority in all parts of the ward, as eve r individual vis£.hd to partake of. Theenthufiafm was general. No person, indeed, went over voluntarily to America, but those unfortunate men whom the inquisition had doomed to destruction were added to the convicts already transported thither the Portuguese have always entertained the mols inveterate hatred against the Spaniards. Notwithstanding this national antipathy, which is of so long a standing that its origin cannot be traced, and so con firmed that it can never be expected to subside, they have borrowed most of their maxims from a neighbour, whose power they dreaded as much as they detested their man news. Whether from a similarity of climate and temper, or from a conformity of circumstances, they have adopted the very worst of their institutions. They could not imitate any thing more horrid than the inquit fition.,THIS bloody tribunal, erected in Spain in 1482, by a mixture of policy and fanaticism, under the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella, was no sooner adopted by John III, than it struck terror inn every family. To establish its authority, and afterwards to maintain it, no eyes than four or five hundred victims were annually Jacr:incd, a tenth of whom were burnt alive, and the rest banished to Africa or to the Brazils. The fury of this tribunal was particularly exerted against those who were suspected of pederafy) : a crime of later date in the kingdom, and not uncommon in those hot climates, where celibacy prevails. It albo prosecuted sorcerers,,the
the existence of which was believed and dreaded in those B o o K times of ignorance, and the number of them multiplied x. all over Europe, by the credulity and bigotry of a bar barons age. The Mahometan, though greatly decreased since they had lost the empire, were also persecuted by the inquisition ; but more especially the Jews, because they were the richest. IT is well known that when the Jews, who had long been confined to a little wretched corner of the earth, were dispersed by the Romans, many of them took re huge in Portugal. There they multiplied after the Arabs had conquered Spain, were suffered to enjoy all the rights of citizens, and were not excluded from pub hic offices, till that country had recovered its independence This first aft of oppression did not prevent twenty thousand Jewish families from removing thither, when after the conquest of Grenada, the catholic kings com pellet them to quit Spain or change their religion, Each family paid twenty livres n for the liberty of set thing in Portugal. Superstition soon induced John I. to aggravate the sufferings of that persecuted nation : he demanded of them 20,000 ° crowns, and afterwards re duce them to a slate of slavery. In 1496, Emanuel banished all those who refused to embrace the Christian religion; those who complied were restored to their freedom, and soon engrossed the Asiatic trade, which was then commencing. The establishment of the inquisition in 1548 proved a check to their activity. Their mistrust was increased by the frequent confiscations made by that odious tribunal, and by the taxes which govern ment extorted from them from time to time. They were in hopes of purchasing some tranquillity, by fur wishing Sebastian with 250,000 livres P for his African expedition; but unfortunately for them, that imprudent monarch came to a:l untimely end. Philip II, who,J, . 61. o-.6zl. p About icq94ol.,soon
no o K soon after extended his dominion over Portugal, enacted',I. that such of his subject as were descended from a Jew,or a Moor, should be excluded from all ecclesiastical or civil employments. This mark of infamy, with which all the new Christians were branded, gave them such a disgust for a country where even the fortunes of the richest could not secure them from meeting with mortifications that they removed with their wealth to Bordeaux Antwerp, Hamburgh, and other towns with which they had regular connections. This emigration was the occasion of a great revolution, spread that in dusty into other countries, which till then had centered in Spain and Portugal, and deprived those two nations of the advantages the one derived from the East, and the other from the Weft Indies.,BEFORE there last periods, the Jews who had been 'ripped of their property by the inquisition, and banished to the Brazils, were yet not totally forsaken. Many found kind relations and faithful friends; others, who were known to be honest and industrious men, obtained credit from merchants of different nations, whom they had formerly dealt with, who advanced them money. Tries helps enabled them to cultivate sugar-canes, which they sirs procured from the island of Madeira.,THIS commodity, which till then had been so scarce as to be confined to medicinal uses, became an article of luxury. Princes, and the rich and great, were all eager to procure themselves this new species of indulgence This circumstance proved favourable to Brazil, and enabled it. to continue increasing its culture. The court of Lisbon, notwithstanding their prejudices, began to be sensible that a colony might be beneficial to the mother country, without producing gold or silver. They now looked with less contempt upon an immense region that chance had thrown in their way, and which they had always considered as a mere common drain, fit,only
only to carry off the filth of the monarchy. This set B O 0 K,Ix. element, which had been wholly left to the management, , of the colonists, was now thought to deserve some kind of administration, and accordingly Thomas de Sousa was sent thither ill 1549, to regulate and superintend it. THIs able governor began by reducing these men, who had always lived in a state of anarchy, into proper subordination, and bringing their flattered plantations closer together ; after which, he applied himself to ac quire some lights rcfpeaing the natives, with whom he knew he must be incessantly engaged, either in traffic or in war. It was no easy matter to accomplish this. BRAZIL was full of small nations, some of which inhabited the forests, and others lived in the plains and along the rivers. Some had fettled habitations, but many more led a roving life. Most of them had no in intercourse with each other. Those that were not divided by incessant wars, were so by hereditary hatred and jealousy Some lived by hunting and fishing, others by agriculture. All these causes must have produced a vi bible difference in the employments and customs of there several nations; yet their general character was very similar. THE Brazilians in general are of the size of the Eu Chara&er,and cur romans, but not so stout. They are subject to fewer tomsofthe distempers, and it is no uncommon thing among them Brazilians. to live upwards of a hundred years. Formerly they wore no clothing at all, but since our invasion, they com monty cover the middle part of their bodies. The or laments of the women differ from those of the men, for they wear their hair extremely long, whereas the men cut theirs quite short; the women wear bracelets of bones of a beautiful white, the men necklaces of the same; the women paint their faces, and the men their bodies.,THOUGH
B o O K Though the language of the Topinambous is gene-,x. rally spoken all along the sea coasts, yet every nation on,that vast continent has its own peculiar idiom. Some of there languages are said to be emphatically, but they are all very much confined not one of them has any words to express ab'lraa and universal ideas. This penury of language, which is common to all the nations of South America, is a convincing proof of the little progress the human understanding has made in those parts. The analogy of words in the several languages, shews that the transmigrations of those savages have been frequent. Possibly, by comparing their language with those of Africa, of the East Indies and of Europe, the origin of the Americans may one day be traced, after the long and fruitless search, which has hitherto employed the labours of so many learned men.,IN ancient times the food of the Brazilians was very simple. It might have been expected to have admitted of greater variety when they came to be acquainted with our domestic animals; yet those who live by the sea side still continue to feed upon the shell-fish they pick up on the shore. Along the rivers, they always live by ,shining, and in the forests by hunting. When these pre carious provisions fail, they feed upon roots, that either grow spontaneously, or require but little culture these savages are averse from all labour, and spend their time in idleness, eating, and dancing. Their songs are but one tedious uniform tone, without any modulations, and commonly turn upon their loves or their warlike actions their amusements are not interrupted by the worship of a supreme being, for they know of none; nor is their tranquillity disturbed by the dread of a future state, of which they have no notion. However, they have their magicians, who, by strange contortions, so far work upon the crcdu!iry of the people as to throw them,into
into violentconvulfions. The end of these men is toe B o o K murdered, if their impostures are detected, and this is ix. some restraint upon the spirit of lying these atheists are equally strangers to all notions of Subordination and submission, which among ourselves are originally derived from the idea of a supreme being. They cannot conceive that any man can have the im prudence to command, much less that any one can be such a fool as to obey. They only bestow most of their esteem upon the man that has murdered the greatest num her of his enemies. THE Brazilians all follow their own inclinations, and like most other savages, shew no particular attachment to their native place. The love of our country, which is a ruling passion in civilized states; which in good go governments rises to enthusiasts, and in bad ones grows habitual ; which for whole centuries together perpetuates in every nation its distinctive disposition, customs and taste: this love of our country is but a factitious senti ment, arising from society, but unknown in the state of nature. The moral life of a savage is the very reverse of that of the social man. The latter enjoys the gifts of nature only in his infancy. As his strength increase and his understanding opens, he overlooks the present, and is wholly intent upon the future. Thus the age of passions and pleasures, that precious time which nature intended for enjoyment, is spent in speculation and disappointment The man denies himself what he wish for, laments the indulgences he has allowed himself, and is alike tormented by his denials and gratifications. Incessantly deploring his liberty which he has always sacrificed, he looks back wishfully on his earliest yea;l, when a series of new objects entertained him with a constant sense of curiosity and hope. He fondly mecul- leSs the scene of his infant days ; the remembrance us his innocent delights endears to him the image of his cradle, and forcibly attracts him to his native (pot:,wh arras
B o o K whereas the savage, who in every period of his life, allows himself an unrestrained enjoyment of all the pleasures and all the good things it affords, without ever sacrificing them to the prospect of a less laborious old age, finds in all places alike, object analogous to his desires, and feels that the source of his pleasures is in himself, and that every place is his home. THOUGH the tranquillity of the Brazilians is not the result of any laws, dissensions are seldom heard of in their little societies. If drunkenness, or some unlucky incident happens to breed a quarrel, and Come life is los, the murderer is instantly delivered up to the relations of the deceased, who put him to death; then both the fa miles meet, and their reconciliation is sealed by a joyous and noisy feast. EVERY Brazilian takes as many wives as he pleases, or as many as he can get, and puts them away when he is tired of them. When they violate their marriage vow, they are punished with death, and nobody laughs at the husband for the injury his wise has done him. When the women lie in, they keep their bed but a day or two; then hanging the child to her neck in a cotton scarf, the mother attends her business as usual, and re cives no injury from it.,TRAVELLERS meet with great civilities in the Brazils. Wherever they come, they are surrounded with women, who wash their feet, and welcome them with the most obliging expressions. They spare nothing for their re caption; but it would be an unpardonable affront, were they to leave the family where they were first enter gained, in hopes of better accommodation in another. This hospitality is one of the strongest indications that man was intended for society. This is the most valu able disposition of the savage nations ; and the point where the improvements of policy, and of all social in situations ought, perhaps, to reft.,THE
THE Brazilians assist one another in sickness with B o o K more than brotherly kindness and cordiality. If one of . them receives a wound, his neighbour immediately comes and fucks it, and performs all the offices of humanity with the same readiness. They make use of the healing plants that grow in their forests; but they trust more to abstinence than to medicines, and never allow their sick to taste any food. FAR from chewing that indifference or weakness that makes us shun the dead, that makes us. unwilling to speak of them, or to stay in the places that might recall their image; there savages behold their dead with tender emotions, recount their exploits with complacency, and celebrate their virtues with transport. They are buried upright in a round grave; and if the deceased was the head of a family, his plumes, his necklaces and his weapons are interred with him. When a clan removes to another place, which often happens merely for the fake of changing, every family sets up tome remarkable stones over the graves of their most respectable relations, and they never approach those monuments of grief with out breaking out into dreadful outcries, not unlike the shouts with which they rend the air when they are go ing to battle. INTEREST or ambition have never prompted the Bra lilian to war. The desire of avenging their relations 9r friends, has always been the motive es their most sanguinary contests. Their chiefs, or rather their ora tors, are old men, who determine the commencement of hostilities, give the signal for marching, and are in defiantly engaged during the march, in, venting expressions of implacable hatred. Sometimes even the march of the army is suspended to listen to these passionate orations, that last for many hours. This may ac count for those long speeches we meet with in Homer, and in the Roman historians; but in those days, the,noise
B OP-noise of the artillery did not drown the voices of the %*,-v generalship combatants are armed with a club of ebony, fix feet long, one foot broad, and an inch thick. Their bows and arrows are of the same wood-their in 'arguments of martial musick are flutes made of the bones of their enemies. They are full as well calculated to inspire courage, as our drums, which stun us out of our sense of danger, and as our trumpets, which give the signal and, perhaps, the fear of death. Their generals are the soldiers who have fought best in former wars when the aggressor arrives on the enemy's frontiers, the women who carry the provisions halt, while .the warriors advance through the woods. The attack is never made openly. They conceal themselves at some distance from the habitations to fall upon their enemies unawares. When it is dark, they set fire to the huts, and take advantage of the confusion to glut their bound leis rage. Those who cannot avoid coming to open fight, divide into platoons and lie in ambush. If they are discovered and routed by superior forces, they hide themselves-in the deepest recesses of the woods. Their courage seldom confess in sanding their ground. :THE ambition of the Brazilians is to make a great. many prisoners. These are brought home to the con queror's village, where they are slain and eaten. The feast lasts a long time, and during the continuance of its the old men exhort the young to become intrepid war riots, that they may extend the glory of their, nation; and often procure themselves such an honourable.;repaft. This inclination for human fiefs never so prevalent as to induce the Brazilians to devour such of their enemies as have fallen in battle; they only. eat those who have been taken alive, and afterwards put to death withers tain ceremonies; as if revenge alone could give a relish for that food which humanity abhors.,7 THE
THE treatment of prisoners of war has varied accord B. o' O I ing to the degree of perfection human reason has gras - lx dually acquired. The mufti civilized nations ransom themes exchange or restore them at the conclusion of the war. Nations that are not yet completely civilized, claim them as their property,. and make them saves The common savages murder them without putting them to torture. The most savage of all, torture, kill, and eat them. This is their law of nations this anthropology, however, is sometimes a kind of malady or taste, that seizes some individuals evert amongst the mildest savages. There murderers, or madmen, withdraw from their hord, and lurk alone in some corner of a forest, where they lie in wait for the passenger, as huntsmen or savages do for game, drag him in, kill and devour him. WHEN this disposition is not a malady, the taftingodf human flesh in the sacrifices made of the prisoners, and a habit of indolence, may be reckoned among the causes of this private anthropology. The civilized man lives by labour, and the savage by hunting. Amongst us, stealing is the readiest and easiest way of acquiring. Amongst the savages, killing a man, and eating him if his flesh is good, is the easiest way of hunting. A man is sooner killed than an animal. Amongst us, an indolent man wants money, and will not take the pains to earn it. Amongst the savages, an indolent man wants to eat, and. will not take the pains to go a hunting; and the same vice leads both to the same crime; so latin all countries laziness is a consumer of men; and in this view, anthropology is fill more common in society than in the wilds:of America. If ever we have an opportunity of examining the savages that are troubled with this distemper we shall find them weak, cowardly, lazy, and addicted to the same vices as our murderers and va grants. VOL. II. G g Wen
0 0 K WE know that if opulence is the mother of vice, ·X. . ix. ; poverty is the mother of crimes; and this principle holds,as true in the woods as in cities. The opulence of a savage is plenty of game; his poverty is a scarcity of it. Now, the crimes that poverty tempts men to com mit are theft and murder. The civilized man robs and murders to live; the savage kills to eat. WHEN this disposition is a malady, the physician will inform us that a savage may be affected with canine hunger, as well as another man. If he is weak, and has not strength to go through the fatigue of procuring a sufficiency to satisfy his hunger, what will he do ? He will kill his neighbour and eat him. He is able to hunt but for a certain time, and he wants to eat conti nually.,THERE are numberless disorders and natural defects, which are attended with no ill consequence, or have quite contrary effects in society, but which muff un avoidable conduce to anthropology in a savage, whose whole property consists in his life.,ALL the moral defects which lead the social man to theft, must lead the savage to the same: now, the only theft a savage is tempted to commit, is on the life of a savage whose fled is fit to eat. IN the Brazils, the heads of the dead are carefully preserved and (hewn to all strangers as monuments of va lour and victory. The heroes of those savage nations bear their exploits imprinted on their limbs, by incisions which command respect from their countrymen. These are no gold or silken ornaments that can be stripped off by an enemy; They account it an honour to have been disfigured in battle. In those regions, a man is re speed the more from being covered with blood such manners did not dispose the Brazilians to sub nit to the-yoke which the Portuguese wanted to impose upon them on their first arrival. At first, they only-declined
lined all intercourfewith these strangers; but finding B O O M they were pursued in order to be made shares, and to be , employed in the labours of the field, they murdered and devoured all the Europeans they could lay hands on. The friends and relations of the captive fla ages made frequent attempts to rescue them, and were sometimes successful. This brought an increase of enemies against the Portuguese, who were forced to fight with ole hand, whilst they were building with the other. SOUSA did not bring forces sufficient to put matters Success of,the Por,,- upon a better footing. Indeed, by building San Sal ger, ,int valor, he gave a center to the colony, but the honour Brazils. of fettling, extending, and making it really ufcsul to the mother country, was reserved to the Jesuits wheaten led him. Those intrepid men, who have always been prompted by religion and ambition to undertake great things, dispersed themselves amongst the Indians. Such of these missionaries as were murdered from hatred to the Portuguese name, were immediately replaced by others, who were inspired with rone but sentiments of peace and charity. This magnanimity confounded the barbarians, who had no idea of forgiveness. By de green they placed more confidence in men who seemed to court them only to make them happy. Their fondness for the missionaries grew to a passion. When a Jesuit was expected in one of their nations, the young people flocked to meet him, concealing themselves in the woods along the road. When he drew near, they sallied forth, played upon their fifes, beat their drums, danced, and made the air resound with joyful songs; and in mort, omitted nothing that could express their satisfaction. At the entrance of the village the old men and chief inhabitants were assembled, who expressed as much joy, but with mores sedateness, A little further on, flood the women and young girls, hn a retpeaful posture suitable to their sex, Then they all joined, and conducted their father in,G g 2 triumph
B 0 o K-triumph to the place where they were .to. meet. , .Thcre,Ix'. ,he instructed them in the fundamental doarinps. of. religion; exhorted them to a regularity of manners, to, a love of justice, to brotherly charity, and to, an abhor hence for human blood.; after which he baptized.them.,As these missionaries were too few. to do every, thing themselves, they frequently. deputed some of the mod sensible Indians in their stead. These men, proud of so glorious 'an office, distributed hatchets, knives and looking glasses amongst the savages they met with, and represented the Portuguese as a harmless, humane and good natured people., They never returned from their excursions but they brought away some of the Brazilians who followed them from motives of curiosity. When those barbarians had once;feen the Jesuits, they could not bear to part from them. When they returned home, it was to invite their families and friends to come and share their happiness, and to. shew the presents they had received.,IF any one (hould doubt there happy effects of kindness and humanity over savage nations, let him but compare the progress the Jesuits have made, in a very short time, in South America, with what the arms and the shipping of Spain and Portugal have not been able to compass in the space of two centuries. Whilst thousands of fol tiers were turning two great and civilized empires into de forts inhabited by roving savages, a few missionaries have changed little wandering clans into several great and civilized nations. If these active and courageous men had been less infected with the spirit of the church of Rome; if, formed into a society in the most intriguing and cor rapt court in Europe, they had not introduced them selves into other courts to influence all political events; if the chiefs of the order had not made an ill use of the very virtues of their members: the old and new world would still enjoy the labours of a set of men, who nightshade
have been made useful, by hindering them from being B o o K necessary i and the eighteenth century would not have 1X. had cause to blush for the enormities that have attended their suppression; nor would the capital of the world be now plunging her rapacious hands into the bowels of her martyrs and apostles. THE Brazilians had too much cause to hate the Euro means, not to mistrust their kindness; but their diffidence was in some measure removed by a signal at of justice the Portuguese had formed the (settlement of St. Vincent on the sea coast, in the 24th degree of south latitude. There they traded peaceably with the Cariges, the gentlest and most civilized nation in all the Brazils. The benefit they reaped from this connection could not prevent their seizing upon seventy men to make slaves of them. The man who had committed the offence was condemned to carry the prisoners back to the place whence he had taken them, and to make the proper excuses for so heinous an insult. Two Jesuits who were appointed to dispose the Indians to accept that satis fashion, which would never have been decreed but at their desire, gave notice of it to Farancaha, the most respectable man of his nation. He came out to meet them, and embracing them with tears of joy; " My " fathers, said he, we content to forget all that is past, " and to enter into a fresh alliance with the Portuguese; " but let them for the future be more moderate, and more " observant of the rights of nations. Our attachment " entitles us at least to equity. We are called barbaric ans, yet we respect justice and our friends." The. missionaries having promised that for the future their nation would more religiously observe the laws of peace and unity, Farancaha proceeded thus; "' If you doubt " the honesty of the Cariges, I will give you a. proof " of it. I have a nephew whom I tenderly love; he,Gg3 "
3 O o K " is the hope of my family, and his mother's favourite,' ( he would die with grief if she were to lose her son,,F Yet you shall have him as a hostage. Take him cl along with you, cultivate his young mind, take care of his education, and infirm him in your religion, Let his manners be gentle, and pure. I hope when l; you come again, you will instruct me also, and " enlighten my mind." Many of the Cariges followed his example, and feet their children to St. Vincent for education. The Jesuits were too artful not to take great advantage of that event; but it does not appear that they ever had any intention to deceive the Indians by in inculcating submission. Avarice had not yet possessed the minds of these missionaries; and they had then such in terest at court, as to command respect in the colony, fo'that their new converts were not to be pitied-this time of tranquillity was improved to the ad advancement of the fg-ar-trade, by means of the slaves procured from Africa. That vast region was no sooner discovered' and subdued by the Portuguese, but they brought away a great number of blacks, to employ them in domestic services and in clearing the grounds. This iuftom,oneof those which have moftcontributed to corrupt the national temper, and which was first praised in the mother country, was introduced much later in the plan nations abroad, where it did not commence till about the year I530. The negroes multiplied'prodigioufly at the time we are speaking of. The natives did not, indeed, fare their labours, but they did not obstruct them, as they did at sirs : they rather encouraged them, bj devoting themselves to less laborious employments, and by furnishing the colony with some sustenance. This harmony was productive of great advantages. n-,rirc THE prosperity of the colony, which was visible in 4r.2n;, all the markets in Europe, excited the envy of the,a-.zs. French, They attempted to make settlements successively
lively at Rio-Janeiro, Rio Grande, Paria and the B o-o 'i sand of Maragnan. Their levity would not sussex Ix them to wait the flow progress of new undertakings; and merely from inconstancy and impatience, they gave up prospects that were sufficient to encourage any-but such volatile spirits, that are as soon disheartened as they are ready to undertake. The only valuable monument we have of their fruitless incursions is a dialogue that shews the natural good sense of the savages, and the more so as it is written with that simplicity of stile which distinguished the French language two hundred years ago. " THE Brazilians, says Very, one of the interior tutors, wondering to see the French take so much " pains to go and fetch their wood, there was once one " of their old men who asked me this question. What's the meaning that you Frenchmen come so far to " fetch wood to warm yourselves ? Is there none in " your land ? To which having answered yes, and a " great deal too, but not such as theirs, which we did " not burn as he thought; But as they themselves used " it to dye their firings and their feathers, so our peo- : pie fetched it for dying. He replied; well, but do " you want so much ? Yes, said I; for in our count try there are some merchants who have more rugs. i and scarlet cloths than you ever Law in this count try ; one of these will buy several ship loads of this,wood. Ha hah! says the savage, thou tallest me " wonders. Then pausing upon what I had been tel-sling him, he said, But this very rich man thou talked, " of, is he never to die ? Yes, yes, said I, as well as.,another. Upon which, as they are great talkers,, he., asked me again; So then when he is dead, to whom " does all the wealth he leaves belong ? It goes, fait 1,.,to his children, or if he has none,. to his brothers, " filters, or next of kin. Truly, says the old man,,G g 4 "now
S 0- 0. K - now I see that you Frenchmen are great fools ; for,,I " muff you work o. hard and crofs.the sea to heap "pericles for-them. that come after you-as if .the earth "that has fed you.was not (efficient to feedthemi.0too., " Wle have children and relations whom we dove, as " thou seer; but as we are sure that after our. death the earth that has fed us will feed them, truly we " trust to that." Tris philosophy, so natural to savages who.have no ambition, but unknown to civilized nations, who have experienced all the mischiefs .of luxury and avarice, made no great impression on the French. They could not withstand the .temptation of riches, which all the maritime nations in Europe thirsted after at that time. The .dutch, who were become. republicans by chance, and merchants from.neceffity, were more persevering and more successful in their attempts on the Brazils, They had only as smaller nation as their own to deal with, who, like themselves were soon to shake off the Spanish yoke but with this difference, that they still retained that of royalty. The Dutch .ALL histories are full of the hats of tyranny and cru f:l ter ci ty that provoked the low countries to rise against a-.r ,a-,mg Philip II. The richest provinces remained or returned cana under the yoke of a tyrannical government, whilst the c:!- zTn- poorest, that were in a manner under water, found rhln;r l.a- means, by more than human efforts, to fecure.their in 'i;rm"; r dependence. When their liberty was firmly efablifhed,,they went and attacked their enemy upon the remotest seas, on the-Indus, on the Ganges, and as far as the Moluccas, which made a part of the Spanish dominions, once Portugal had been included in the possessions of Spain. The truce of 1609 allowed time for that. enter' prising and fortunate republic to ripen her new projects. They broke out in 1621, bathe creation of a Weft India Company, which promised the same success in. Africans and
and America, that were both comprised in the charter, B' o0. K as the EaftIfndia company had enjoyed in Asia. ' x.,THE'Rock of the new society Was twelve millions'; Holland furnished four ninths, Zealand two, the Manse and Weft Friesland each one, and Friesland and Groningen together one ninth. The general meeting was to be held at Amsterdam fix years successively, and then two years at Middelburg. The Weft India Company, who were displeased that their privilege wa's not so ex tensive as that 'of the Eat India Company, were in fib haste to begin their operations; but the states put them upon a level, and then they made an attack upon the' Brazils. THEY had taken care to procure the necessary informations Some Dutch sips 'had ventured '(iteir, in defiance of the law that sorbad 'the 'admittance of any foragers. As-they greatly uhaeffold the other country which is the constant practice of that nation, they met with a kind reception. At their return they re ported, that the country was in h kinds anarchy; that foreign dominion had stifled in the people the love of their country; that self-interest had corrupted their minds ; that the soldiers were turned merchants; that they had forgotten the very elements of war, and that who' ever fhotild appear there with competent forces, would infallibly effect the conquest of that wealthy region. THE company committed that undertaking to Jacob Wilkins in r624. Hewett directly to the capital. San Salvador surrendered at fight of theDutch fleet, and the rest of the province, which was the largest, richest and most populous of the colony, made little more resistance this news gave more pleasure than pain to the Spa nil council. The ministry were comforted for the tri umph of their most inveterate enemies by the vexation this stroke must give to the Portuguese. Ever since they had been seeking to oppress that unfortunate nation, thebes 525.oo1h.,had
B o o K had met with a reifilnce that hurt their pride, and,lIX checked thes despotism n event that might make portugal les haughty .and more traceable, appeared to them-a lucky circumstance. They thought themselves at the eve of accomplishing their purpose, and were fully determined to do nothing that might protract the completion of itt hough Philip harboured these base sentiments, he thought the majesty of the throne required of.him some outward demonstrations of decency. Accordingly he wrote to the Portuguese of the first rank exhorting them to make. such generous efforts as the present exigencies required. This they were very ready to do. Self in tezeft, patriotism, the desire of damping the joy of their tyrants, all concurred to quicken their alacrity. The mxoicd men lavished their treasures; others raised troops; all were eager to center into the service. In three months time they fitted out twenty fix ships, which failed in the beginning of the year I626, in company with therefrom Spain, which the tardiness and policy of that nation had made them wait for, much too long. . THE archbishop of San Salvador, Michael de Texeira, had prepared matters so as to facilitate their success. That martial prelate, at the head of 1500 men, had presently flopped the progress of the enemy. He had inflated, harassed, beaten, driven, inclosed and blocked them up in the town. The Dutch, reduced by hunger, fatigue and wan:, compelled the governor to surrender to the troops which the fleet had landed on their arrival, and they were all carried to Europe. THE success of the company by sea, made them amends for this loss. Their ships never came into port but loaded with the spoils of the Spaniards and Portuguese They were so prosperous as to give umbrage even to the powers most interested in the welfare of Holland The ocean was covered with their fleets. Their admirals endeavoured by useful exploits to preserve,thcei
their ,confidence. The subaltern officers strove to rise, n o o I by seconding the valour and skill of their commanders. IX. The soldiers and tailors fought with unparalleled ea griefs,. and nothing, could discourage those resolute and intrepid men. The fatigues of'the sea, sickness, and repeated engagements, all seemed to inure them to war, and to increase their emulation. The company kept up this spirit by frequent rewards. ' Exclusive of their'pay, they were allowed to carry on a private trade, which was a great encouragement, and procured .constantinople of men. By this wise regulation, their interest was lb connected with that 6f their employers, that they wanted to be always in action.' They never frock to the enemy, nor ever failed to 'attack their ships with that skill, that intrepidity, and that perseverance, which must ensure victory. In the cliffs; of thirteen years, the company'fitted out eight hundred Ships, which cost ninety millions. ' They took five hundred and forty-five of the enemy's lips, which, with the goods on board, fold'for i8o,ooo,o livres '. The dividend never vats under twenty per cent, and often rose to fifty. This prosperity, which arose wholly from war, put the company iiL a condition to make a second attack upon the Brazils. THEIR admiral, Henry Long, arrived in the begin king of the year 1630, with forty-fix men of war, on the coast of Fernambucca, one of the largely difirids in those parts, and the best fortified. He reduced it after several obstinate engagements, in which he was always victorious. The troops he left behind, subdued those of Samaria, Paria and Rio Grande, in the years 1633, 1634, and 1635. They furnished yearly a large quantity of sugar, a great deal of logwood, and other commodities, as did likewise Fernambucca.,THE company were so elated with the acquisition of this wealth, which flowed to Amferdani instead of,' 3,937,5e01o- 7,S75,0Col.,Lisbon,
B 6.0 Ki lisbon, that they 'determined to conquer all the!Brazils, · -^ .- .irid lent Maurice of Nassau for that purpose. That,general reached the place of his destination on the first days oF '637. Te 'found the 'soldiers well disciplined, the commanders experienced men, and all shewed so much readiness to engage, that he directly took the field. He was successively opposed by Albuquerque, Angola, Lewis Rocca de Borgia, and the Brazilian Cameron, The idol of his people, passionately fond of the Portuguese brave, alive, cunning, and who wanted no thing to be a general, but to have learnt the art of war under good matters. All these chiefs exerted their utmost efforts to aefena ti possessions that were under their pro. mention; biuttheir endeavours proved ineffectual. The Dutch seized upon the district of Sara, Seregippe, and ilmolt all Bahia. Seven of the fourteen provinces which cotnposi the colony, ia acknowledged their dominion, and they flattered themselves that one or two campaigns would make them mailers of all that re iaiiied in te enemy's hands in that part of America; when Ate were suddenly flopped in the midst of their career by a revolution which all Europe'wifhed for, but had no room' to expe&.,THE Portuguese had never enjoyed happy times since 'they had submitted to the Spanish yoke. Philip II. an. avaricious, cruel, despotic, crafty and false prince, had endeavoured to vilify them; but concealed his intentions under honourable pretences. His son, who too closely followed his maxims, and thought it better to reign over a ruined nation than to be indebted to the good-will of the people for their submission, had suffered them to be stripped of a multitude of conquests, which had been a source of riches, glory and power, and had cost them torrents of brood. The successor of that weak prince, sill more foolish than his father, openly and contemp. tuoufly attacked heir administration, their privileges,,their
their manners, and all. that was dearest to them. Alt Bia a- a the instigation of Alvarez, he wanted to provoke them : to revolt, that he might have a right to strip them. . THESE repeated outrages united all the;Portuguefe, whom Spain had been labouring to divide. A con, piracy, that had been brooding for three years with in credible secrecy, broke out on the 3d of December 1640. Philip IV. was ignominiously banished, andthe Duke of Braganza was placed on the throne of his ancestors. The example of the capital was followed by the whole kingdom, and by all the remaining ser elements in Asia, Africa, and America. This great revolution cost no blood but that of, Michael Gascony cells, the base and vile instrument of tyranny the new king united his interests and his resentments with those of the English, the French, and all the ene mies of Spain. On the 23d of June 1645, he con eluded .an offensive and defensive alliance with,the United Provinces. for Europe, and a ten years truce for the East and Weft Indies. Nassau was immediately recalled with most of the troops, and the government of the Dutch possessions in Brazil was given to Camel, merchant of Amsterdam ; to Basis, a goldsmiths Harlem; and to Bulleftraat, a. carpenter of Middelburg.' This: council was to have the decision' of all matters, which were supposed for the future to relate only to the con cerps;of a brisk and profitable trade the new administrators readily entered into the oeconomical views of the company. Their own inclination led them beyond the mark. They suffered the fortifications to decay, which had been too much neglected before; and sold arms and ammunition to their rivals, who paid a high price for them ; and. allowed all 'the soldiers who desired it to return to Europe. Their whole ambition was to save expences, and increase. the profits of their constituents; and the. applause which',their
o O R eieir with cargoes procured them from a greedy and Short frighted direction, encouraged them jo go on. To enhance the profits of the company, they began to oppress those-portuguese, whole large property, or some ether circumstance, bad induced them to remain under their protection. Tyranny made a quick progress, and was at last carried to such excels, as would justify any resolutions, and inspire the most violent ones. - THE victims wasted no time in complaints. The boldest joined in 1645 to take their revenge: their scheme was, to murder all the Dutch who had any share in the government, at an entertainment in the midst of the capital of Fernambucca, and then to fall upon the people, who, suspecting no danger, would be unprepared. The plot was discovered, but the conspirators had time to get out of the town, and to fly to a place of safety their chief was a Portuguese of obscure birth, cal led Juan Hernandez de Vera. From a common servant he had risen to be a commission trader, and then a mer chant. His abilities had enabled him to acquire a large fortune; his honesty had gained him universal confidence and his generosity had made him an infinite number of friends, who were inviolably attached to his interest. The late disappointment did not break his high spirit. Without the consent or support of govern ment, he dared to raise the standard of war. His name, his virtues and his projects asSembled the' Brazilians, the Portuguese soldiers, and even the colo gifts about him. He inspired them with his confidence, his activity and his courage. They attended him in battle, crowded about his person, and were determined to conqueror die with him. He triumphed, but did nor allow himself to lumber over his victories, or gie he enemy time to recover. Some checks he met with ri the coursers is:profperities, only served to difplay'ih"h firmness of his-foul, the extent of his genius, and th&.,~~- ~~~-;~~: elevation
elevation of his mind. He put on a threatning: aspen, B. o O s even after a misfortune, and appeared still more forbids IX. able by his perseverance than by his intrepidity. He.fpxead such terror, that his enemies during longer keep the field. At this period of his glory, Vera received orders to lop. SINCE the truce, the Dutch had seized upon. fie places in Africa and Alla, which they obstinately re. susid to restore. The court of Lisbon, intent upon greater concerns, had not been at leisure to do themselves justice; but their inaction had not lessened their resent ment. In this disposition, they had rejoiced to see the republic attacked in Brazil; and had even secretly favoured them who had begun the hostilities. As they constantly disowned there proceedings, and loudly de claret, both in Europe and America, that they would. one day punish the authors of the disturbances, the company imagined they would soon subside; but their avarice, which had been too long amused with false and frivolous protestations, was roused at last. John IV, being informed that considerable armaments were making in Holland, and fearing to be drawn into a war which he wished to avoid, exerted himself in earnest to put an end to the hostilities in the Brazils. Vera, who had nothing to trust to for the completion of his work, but his money, his interest, and his abilities, did not even deliberate whether he should obey. " If the king, said he, did but know his own "'-interest, our zeal and our success; far from disarm " ing us, he would encourage us to pursue our under " taking, and would support us with all his power." Then, left the ardour of his companions should cool, he determined to hasten his operations; and they continued to be crowned with such success, that with the help of Bretton, Vidal, and some other Portuguese, who wi re able and willing to serve their country, he completed the ruin of the Dutch. The few who escaped the swordsman
E o o K anlfamine, evacuated Brazil in consequence of a capitulation signed the 28th of January 1654 TH peace concluded. three months after between England and the United Provinces, seemed to put the latter in a condition to. recover a valuable possession, which they had. lost by an ill-judged. parsimony and un lucky incidents; but both the republic and the company frustrated the expectation of their friends; and the treaty which put an end to the divisions between the two powers in 166x, secured to Portugal the sole possession of all the Brazils, in consideration of eight millions 1 which that crown engaged. to pay to the United Pro vices, either in. money or goods thus did the Dutch part with a conquest that might have become the riches of all the European colonies, and would have made the republic more considerable than their own country ever can. But,. in order to keep it, the government ought to have undertaken the administration and defence of it; and to make it prosper, it should have enjoyed full liberty. With these precautions Brazil would have been preserved, and would have enriched the. nation, instead of ruining the com any. Unfortunately they did not yet know that the only way to make lands useful in America is to clear them, ands that the only way to do this successfully, is to open a free trade to all the colonists under the pro tetion of government. No sooner did the Portuguese find themselves entirely freed from the Dutch, but they thought of putting the colony into better order than ever it was, even before the war. The first thing they did towards accomplishing this end, was to regulate the condition of the Brazilians who had. either submitted, or should submit to them. Upon a closer examination they found that they had been slandered, when they were represented as .barbarians who could bear no. restraint. The first impression thanet 350,oZjl.,the
tfie-ightfof Europeans made upon small natiohs,"who B o -0 I were divided by-continual wars; was a sense of distrusts X irid'as'it is natural for suspected persons to be afraid of thofe'who suspect them, they thought themselves at li betty to treat them as enemies, to oppress them, and to put them in irons. This usage at first rendered them fierce: The difficulty of understanding one another, gave frequent occasions for animosity oh both sides. If the natives afterwards renewed their hostilities, it was commonly because they were provoked to it by the imprudence, the rapaciousness, the dishonesty, and the ill usage of that restless and ambitious power that was come to disturb the peace of that part of America. On some oc passions, they might be charged with inadvertency, in too hastily taking up arms from the apprehensions of imaginary danger, but never with injustice or double dealing. They were always found true to their pro misses, to the faith of treaties, and to the sacred rights of hospitality being at lass satisfied as to their disposition, it was thought expedient to colle them into villages along the coast, or not far up the country. By this means, a communication was secured to the Portuguese fettle nests, and they kept off the savages v.who infested the intermediate parts with their depredations. The missionaries who were mostly Jesuits, were intrusted with the temporal and spiritual government of there new communities. The best inquiries that could be made, in a country where all is mysterious, have informed us th'afthbfe ecclesiastics were mere tyrants. Those who hadYetalned orme principles of moderation and humanity, whether from indolence or from fanaticism, kept those liftle-focieties in a state of perpetual infancy, and neither improved their understanding, nor in some measure their industry vol. II. H h POSSIBLY
B 0 0 K POSSIBLY, had they been ever so willing, they wouldst. have found it difficult to have been more serviceable tother. Some kinds of government are faulty, both by the mischief they do, and by the good they prevent. A wrong administration corrupts all the feeds of virtue and prosperity. The court of Lisbon exempted the Indians from all taxes, but subjected them to services. That fatal law made them dependent on the neighbouring commandants and magistrates, who, under the usual pretence of policemen, of making them work for the public, too often sacrificed them to their own service. Those who were not employed for them or for their teachers, were generally unemployed. If they look off their natural indolence, it was to go a bunting or fish ing, or to cultivate a little cassava, just as much as they wanted for their own subsistence. Their manufactures were confined to some cotton girdles or sashes to cover their nakedness, and the placing of a few feathers to adorn their heads. The most alive found in their so rests, or in the culture of their grounds, sufficient to purchase a few articles of cutlery, and other trifles of small value. If any one, from inconstancy, hired him self to the Portuguese, either for domestic service or to navigate their small craft, it was always for a short time; for they hate work, and have the highest con tempt for money. SUCH was the fate of the Brazilians who had sub mitted, whorl number never exceeded 200,000. The independent natives had little intercourse with the Eu romans, except by the slaves they sold them, or those that were taken from them. The two nations com mitted few acis of hostility against each other, and in tine entirely ceased. The Portuguese have not been'mo- levied by the natives since the year 1717, and have not molested them since 1756.,WHILST the court of Lisbon was regulating the in terror concerns of the colony, some of their subjects were,X~I ~ devising
deviling the means of extending it. They advanced to B o o K the south towards the river of Plata, and to the north as IX. far as that of the Amazons. The Spaniards learned to be in possession of both those :avers. The Portuguese were determined to drive them away, or share the navigation with them. THE river of the Amazons, so famous for the extent of its course, that great vassal of the sea, to whom she brings the tribute she has received from so many of her own vassals; seems to be produced by innumerable tor rents that rush down from the east side of the Andes, and unite in a spacious plain, to supply that immense river. Yet the common opinion is, that it comes from the lake Llauricocha, as from a reservoir of the Cor deserts, situate in the district of Guano, thirty leagues from Lima, about the nith degree of south latitude In its progress of a thousand or eleven hundred leagues, it receives the waters of a prodigious number of rivers, some of which come from far, and are very broad and deep. It is interspersed with an infinite number of islands, that are too often overflowed to admit of culture. It falls into the ocean under the line, and is there fifty leagues broad the entrance of this river was sires discovered in coo by Vincent Pincon, one of the companions of Co humbug ; arid its spring head is thought to have been discovered by Gonzales Pizarro in 1538. His lieutenant Orellana embarked on this river, and failed from one end to the other. He was obliged to fight his way down, and to engage many nations, who obstructed his navigation with their canoes, and poured showers of arrows upon him from the Close. It was, doubtless, then that the fight of beardless savages, as are all the American nations, struck the lively imagination of the Spaniards, and suggested the idea of an army of female warriors, and induced the commanding officer to changes h z the
B 0 0 K the name of that river, which was then called the IAla-,i . ragnon, and to call it the river of the Amazons, which name it retains to this day. IT may appear surprising that America did not fill the heads of the Spaniards with more prodigies, considering their propensity for the marvellous; but it mull be re membered that their conquests, and the incredible massacres they committed in quest of riches, destroyed a country so well calculated to furnish them with wonder ful stories. There indeed, the fancy of the Greeks might have found abundant matter for pleasing chimaera. They, who could not stir a step in a small territory without meeting with a multitude of wonders, had, even in the times of Hercules and Theseus, given birth to a nation of Amazons. They were so inchanted with this idea, that it recurred perpetually in the histories of all their heroes, down to Alexander. Perhaps, the Spa niards, still infatuated with this dream of profane anti quite, were the more disposed to realize the fiction, by removing into the new continent what they had learned in the old such was, probably, the origin of the opinion they established, both in Europe and America, of a republic of female warriors aauallv existing, who did not live in society with men, and only admitted them once a year, for the purposes of procreation. To give the more credit to this romantic fiery, they reported, not without reason, that the women in America were all so un happy, and were treated with such contempt and in humanity, that many of them had agreed to shake off the yoke of their tyrants. They added, that being ac customer to follow the men into the forests, and to carry their provisions and baggage when they went out tonight or to hunt, they were inured-to hardships, and capable of such a bold resolution.,BuT
BuT'it is absurd to imagine that women who had an B o o K unconquerable aversion for men, would ever content to Ix. become mothers ; nor is it likely that the men would run after their wives, when they had made their lives insupportable at home, and always turned them away as soon as they had no more occasion for them. Much less can it be supposed that the softer sex, susceptible of the ten dercft feelings, would expose or strangle their own children because they were boys; and coolly and deliberately agree to commit such enormities as none would be guilty of, but a few individuals urged by rage and despair. Nor could a senate of women govern an aristocratical or a democratical commonwealth, or a monarchy be go versed by a single woman. IF strange prejudices have formed societies of both sexes amongst us, who live separate, and free from that natural attraction which was intended to unite them, it is not confident with the nature of things, that chance should have produced a nation of men without women, and still less a nation of women without men. Certain it is, that since this political constitution has been talked of, infinite pains have been taken to find it out, but no traces of it could ever be discovered. This singular prodigy therefore will be like many others, which are always supposed to exist, though nobody knows where. BE that as it may, the voyage of Orellana procured little information, but excited much curiosity. The civil wars that raged in Peru, prevented its being pre gently satisfied ; but when tranquillity was restored, Pedro d'Orfua, a gentleman of Navarre, distinguished by his wisdom and courage, offered the viceroy, in Ice, to resume that navigation. He fe out from Cusco with seven hundred men. Those blood-thirsty monsters, those haters of all good men, murdered their chief, who was a man of good morals, and a friend order. They set up at their head, with the title of king, a fierce Bis-,H h 3 cavan,
B O 0 K cavan, called Lopez d'Aguirre, who promised them all,the treasures of the new world. Intoxicated with such flattering hopes, those bar barons failed down the Amazons into the ocean, apn landed at Trinidad; murdered the governor, and plundered the island. The coasts of Cumana, Caraccas, and St. Martha were fill more severely treated, because they were richer. They then penetrated into new Grenada and were advancing to Quito and the heart of Peru, where every thing was to be destroyed by fire and sword. A body of troops, hastily got together, attacked there desperate men, beat and dispersed them. D'Aguirre, seeing no way to escape, and enraged at his disappoint ment, thus addressed his only daughter who attended him in his travels: " My child, I thought to have , placed thee upon a throne, but the event has not ai " swerved my expectation. My honour and thy own ' will not permit thee to live, and to be a slave to our " enemies; die therefore by a father's hand." Saying this, he instantly slot her through the body, and then put an end to her life, by plunging a dagger into her heart. After this unnatural a&, his strength failed, and he was taken prisoner, drawn and quartered. AFTER these unfortunate events, the river of the Amazons was entirely neglected, and was totally for gotten for half a century. Some attempts were after wards made to trace its discovery, but they were ill concerted and no better executed. The honour of con during difficulties, and attaining a profitable knowledge of that great river, was reserved to the Portuguese.,THAT nation, which still retained some remains of her former vigour, had, some years before, built a town at the entrance of the river, which they called Para. Pedro Tcxeira embarked at this place in 1638, and with a great number of canoes full of Indians and Portuguese, went up the river of the Amazons, as farther
the mouth of the Napoooo, and then up the Napoooo, which B o o K brought him almost to Quito, where he arrived by land. ix. Notwithstanding the enmity subsisting between the Spa niards and Portuguese, though subjects of the same master, Texeira was received with that regard, esteem, and confidence, which were due to a man who was doing a signal service to his country. He returned in com any with d'Acugna and d'Artieda, two learned Jesuits, who were commissioned to verify his observations, and to make others. An accurate result of these two voyages was sent to the court of Madrid, where it gave rise to a very extraordinary projet. THE communication between the Spanish colonies had long been found very difficult. The enemy's cor fairs infested the north and south seas, and intercepted their navigation. Even those of their ships which had got to the Havannah and joined company, were not per fectly safe. The galleons were frequently attacked and taken by whole squadrons, and always pursued by privateers who seldom failed to carry off the stragglers, that were parted from the convoy, either by stormy weather or by (ailing more slowly than the rest. The Amazon, seemed to obviate all these difficulties. It was thought a feasible, and even an easy matter, to convey thither the treasures of New Grenada, Popayan, Quito, Peru, and Chili itself, by navigable rivers, or at a small ex pence by land. It was thought that coming down the river, they would find the galleons ready in the harbour of Para to take them in. The Brazil fleet would then join the Spanish, and they would strengthen each other. They would then fail with great security in latitudes little known and little frequented, and would make a formidable appearance at their return to Europe, 2nd shew that they were prepared to encounter any obstacles they might have met with. The revolution which placed the duke of Braganza on the throne, put an end to these h 4 important
B o o . important process. Each nation fought only to kesp,IX. that part of the river that best suited its own situation the Spni:ih Jesuits undertook to set up a mission dirt the country lying between the banks of the Amazon and of the Napoo, down to the junction of both rivers. Every missionary, attended only by one man, took with him hatchets, knives, needles, and all kinds of iron tools, and ventured into the thickest of the forests. There they spent whole months in climbing up the trees, to see if they could discover some hut, perceive any smoke, or hear the found of any drum or fife. When they were assured that some savages were in the neigh boyhood, they advanced towards them. Most of them fled, especially if they were at war. Those the missionary could come within reach of, were easily bribed by such presents as their ignorance made them set a value up n. This was all the eloquence he had in his power, or ai! he had any occasion to exert.,VAiEsx he bad assemblies a few families, he led them to the place he had fixed upon to form a village. They were not early prevailed upon to take up their abode there. As they were used to rove about, they could no: bear the thoughts of never £nif:ir.g their habitation. The inc-ipendencc in'which they had lived, they thought preferable to the social life that was recommended to them and their unconquerable action for labour, in duce them continue:; to return to their forests, where they had front their ll;es in ide!neci. Even those who. vwcre refrained by the authority or the paternal kindness cf their lawgiver, sidon failed to run away in his ab fence, if it was ever so short. But his death always put an end to the iettlcmcnt.,THE perseverance of the Jesuits has at last conquered there feernin!y invincible obstacles. Their mission, which began in 1637, h-s gradually acquired scale soli city, ash, qow consists of thirty-fix villages, twelve of,XI~ ~ which
which are situated along the Napoo, and twenty-four on B 0 o K. the banks of the Amazon. The most populous has no, x. more than twelve hundred inhabitants, and the reef much less. The increase of the mission mute be flow, and can never be considerable the women of this part of America aren't fruitful, and their barrenness increases, when they remove from one place to another. The men are weakly, and make themselves more so by constant bathing. The climate is not healthy, and contagious distempers are very common. The savages never could, and, probably, never will, be brought to relish agriculture, and only delight in fishing and hunting, amusements which are by no means fa favourable to population. In a country which is almost all under water, few situations are fit for a settlement. The villages are so wide asunder, that they cannot.pof- ably assisi each other. The nations are likewise at too great a distance to be incorporated to any purpose; be sides, most of them are intrenched in inaccessible places, and are so scanty that they often confess of five or fix families. OF all the Indians the Jesuits had collected, and whom they governed, none were so lifeless or so inca able of being animated as there. Every missionary was obliged to put himself at their head, to make them pick up the cocoa, vanilla, and sarsaparilla that nature offers so plentifully, which is rent every year to Quito, three hundred leagues off, to barter them for necessaries. Their whole property consists of a hut, open on all sides, made of a few liancs, and covered on the top with palm leaves, a few implements of husbandry, a lance, bows and arrows for hunting, fishing tackle, a tent, a hammock, and a canoe. It has not been possible to extend their wishes beyond this. They are so well satisfied with what they possess, that they wish for no thing more; they live unconcerned, sleep without un easiness, and die without fear. They may be said to be,happy
v o o K happy, if happiness consists more in an exemption from,the uneasy sensation that attends want, than in the multiplicity of enjoyments that our wants require. THIS infant state, the offspring of religion alone, has hitherto been of no service to Spain, and it can hardly be expected it ever should. However the government of Maynas, with its capital Borja, have been formed there. The destroyers of America never thought of disturbing a country that afforded neither silver nor gold, nor any of thole rich commodities which so powerfully allured their covetousness; but the neighbouring savages will sometimes come amongst them. WHILST some missionaries were establishing the authority of the court of Madrid on the banks of the Amazon, others were doing the same service to that of Lisbon. Six or seven days journey below the settlement of St. Ignacio de Peas, the last under the jurisdiction of Spain, is St. Paul, the first of the fix villages formed by some Portuguese Carmelite, at a vast distance from each other. They are all on the south side of the river, where the ground is higher, and less liable to be overflowed. Those missions exhibit a pleasant prospect five hundred leagues from the sea; churches and houses prettily built, Americans neatly dressed, all forts of European furniture which the Indians can get once a year at Para, when they go in their boats to sell the cocoa they pick up along the water side, where it grows spontaneously. If the Maynas were at liberty to form connexions with thee neigh hours, they might procure some conveniences that they cannot fetch from Quito, being separated from that place by the Cordeleras, which cut off the communication more effectually than immense Seas would do. The go government would, probably, find their account in allowing this freedom, and, possibly, it might be for the interest both of Spain and Portugal, though rivals, to extend this permission. It is well known that the province mosquito
Quito is poor, for want of an opportunity of disposing B o o K of the overplus of those very commodities that are not to lx. be had at Para. The two provinces might mutually a1ift each other, by means of the Napoo and the Ama son, which would be greatly conducive to the welfare of both, and advance them to a degree of prosperity they can never attain without this intercourse. The mother countries would in time reap great advantages from it, and it could never be prejudicial to them, as Quito can never buy what is sent from Europe to America, and Para consumes nothing but what Lisbon buys of her neighbours. But it is with national antipathies, and the jealousies of crowned heads, as it is with the blind passions of men in private life. One unlucky incident is sufficient to divide families and nations for ever, when it is their highest interest to love and assis one another, and to promote universal happiness. Hatred and revenge will rather sussex than not do mischief, and are perpetually kept up by the wounds they inflict, and the blood they spill. How different is man in the state of na ture from man corrupted in our wretched societies 1 The latter amply deserves all the sorrows he brings upon himself. A PROOF of his mischievous disposition may be seen in those bulwarks, and that chain of forts erected by the avarice and distrust of the conquerors of Brazil, from the istria of Coari down to the sea side. The Portuguese built them to preserve their usurpations in that part of the world. Though these forts are at a great distance from each other, and are but slightly fortified and thinly manned, the few Indians who inhabit the intermediate spaces are completely kept in subjection. The petty nations who refused to submit have disappeared having fled for refuge to some remote or unknown region. The rich soil they have forsaken has not been cultivated, though it would have been for the in terest of the mother country that it should; so that,hitherto
B-OO.Ko hitherto Spain and Portugal have gained little le from,L all their conquests, than hatred and indignation against their cruelties the country along the Amazon indeed furnishes Portugal with sarsaparilla, vanilla, coffee, cotton, woods for cabinet work, timber, and plenty of cocoa, which, till of late years, was the current coin of the country. But this produce is nothing to what it might. It is only to be found for some leagues about great Para, the capital of the colony, whereas the cultures ought to extend all along the great river, and on the fertile banks of an infinite number of navigable rivers which fall into it. THESE great articles of trade are not the only things that might turn to good account, if Portugal,' like other nations, had from time to-4:mi sent able 'naturalists into her colonies. Chance alone has discovered the Cucheris and Pecuri, two aromatic trees, whose fruits have the same properties as the nutmeg:and close. Perhaps, cul ture might give them that degree of perfection they want. A constant study might procure much useful knowledge in a country where nature is so different from what it is in our climate. .U.StOZTU sATELY the Portuguese, who employ none but savages further laboriouswork, attended to nothing but making slaves. At first, they set up a cross on lome eminence in the countries they ran over, and left the care of it to the Indians. If they suffered it to decay, they and their children were piously doomed to slavery, for this heinous profanation. Thus r:.- izn of salvation and deliverance for Christians, was made a sign oc death and slavery or the Indians I. after-times, the forts they had. erected served to increase tie number of heaves. That resource proving insufficient, the Portuet!ie as Para inca excursions of five or fix hundred,: es to procure a additional number of men to f t: cite place of befit in the cultivation of lai i1:1 ;,,~ they fetched,some
some from the country of the Maynas ; in 1733 from the B o O millions of the Napoo; and in 1741 as far as the head of IX. the river Madeira, and at different times from the banks of rivers nearer home. They procured the greatest number from Rio Negro, where they have long since built a considerable fort. A detachment from the gar ripon of Para is always encamped on the banks of that river, to keep the reduced Indians in awe. That part of the country is covered with missions, where the missionaries piously encourage their converts to attack the neighbouring nations and bring away slaves. At last a party of soldiers, who were sent out to make further discoveries went in boats as far as the Oroonoko. This last success has enlarged the views of the Portuguese, as it leaves no doubt about the communication between that river and the Amazon by Rio Negro. It concerns the court of Madrid to examine the grounds of there views, and to see how far they ought to take.meafures for disappointing them. At least we may venture to affirm, that the projets of the court of Lisbon on the river Plata, deserve the most serious attention. THE Portuguese, who had appeared there soon after Settlement the Spaniards, took a dislike to it, and withdrew in a f thee Pe-,tuguefe on short time. In 1679 their inclination of fettling there the river plata. was revived, and with more spirit than they were thought capable of from their conduce and manners in Europe, they penetrated into Paraguay. They had al ready established the colony of St. Sacrament, near the islands of St. Gabriel, opposite to Buenos Ayres, when they were accidentally detected. The Guaranis Indians hastened thither to make amends for the neglect of go government. Without deliberating, they attacked the new ereaed fortifications, and demolished them with an intrepidity, that has done honour to their courage the court of Lisbon, who had built great hopes upon this settlement, was not discouraged by the late ill,fuccesi,
B O o K success, but desired that, till their claims could be ad-trusted, they might be allowed a place where the Portuguese might be sheltered from the storms, and in security from the pirates, if they were forced by stress of weather to enter the river Plata. CHARLES II, who dreaded a war and hated business, was weak enough to grant their request, and only stipulated that the place so granted should still be deemed his property; that no more than fourteen Portuguese families should be sent thither; that the houses should be built of wood and thatched; that no fort should be ereaed; and that the governor of Buenos Ayres should have a right to inspect both the colony and the ships that should come into it. HAD the Jesuits carried on the negociation, as they had directed the war, they would certainly have foreseen the consequences of such a compliance. It was impossible but a standing settlement, be it what it would, must be a constant source of altercations with an enterprising neighbour, who had immense claims, who was sure of the protection of all the enemies of Spain, and who were within reach of Brazil, which would enable him to take advantage of every opportunity that might offer, to encroach upon the Spaniards. The event soon ,hewed the danger that might have been foreseen. IMMEDIATELY upon the elevation of a French prince to the throne of Spain, when all was still in confusion and uncertainty as to the consequences of that great re volution, the Portuguese restored the fortifications of St. Sacrament with amazing celerity; and at the same time caused home troops to advance towards the frond tiers of the Guaranis, hoping to ward off any blow from that quarter. But they were mistaken. The Jesuits having detected the artifice, brought their converts to St. Sacrament, which was already besieged. Those brave Indians, on their arrival, offered to mount the',breach,
breach, though they knew it was but just opened. B o o K When they began their march, Come batteries were fired IX. upon them from the town, but they flood the fire with out ever breaking their ranks, nor could they be with held by the fire of the small arms, which likewise killed many of them. The intrepidity with which they still advanced, so astonished the Portuguese that they fled to their ships, and abandoned the place the disasters which Philip V. met with in Europe, preventing his reaping any advantage from this success, the colony of St. Sacrament was firmly re-inflated by the peace of Utrecht. Queen Anne, who made this peace, and who neither neglected her own interests nor those of her allies, required Spain to give up this important point. AT that period the new settlement, being now under no apprehensions, began to carry on an immense trade with Buenos Ayres. That contraband trade had long subsisted. Rio-Janeiro furnished Buenos Ayres with sugar, tobacco, wine, brandy, negroes, and woollen goods and received in return from thence, flour, biscuit dried or salt meat, and money. As soon as the colonies had a safe and commodious staple, they set no bounds to their intercourse. The court of Madrid, who soon perceived which way the treasures of Peru went, shewed great discontent, which still increased with the damage complained of. It was a perpetual source of division between the two nations, and conti annually threatened to end in a rupture. The conciliating methods which were proposed from time to time, were always found impracticable. At last, however, the mat ter was adjust edit was agreed at Madrid on the 13th of January 1750. that Portugal should give up to Spain the colony of St. Sacrament, and the north border of the river Plata, to gather with the village of St. Christopher and the ad-jacent
B& 0o E jacent lands, situated between the rivers Yupura and Ififat,e X. which fall into the Amazon. Spain, on her side, gave,up all the lands and habitations bordering on the east ide of the river Paraguay, from the river Ibicui to the north, the village of Santa Rosa, and all the others on the eastern border of the Guarapey.,TRIs exchange was censured in both courts. Some dared to fayat Lisbon, that it was bad policy to sacrifice a colony, whose illicit trade brought in eight or ten millions ° a year to the mother country, for other possessions whose advantages were precarious, or at least disant. Thevv clamours ran higher still at Madrid, and were more universal. Thevvy already thought they saw the-portuguese masters of the whole extent of the Paraguay pouring their commodities all along the banks of the Plata; penetrating by means of several rivers into the Tucuman, into Chili, and as far as Potofi, and by degrees making themselves matters of the riches of Peru. Thevv could not conceive how the same ministers, who thought there was no possibility of putting a flop to a contraband trade which could be carried on but from one spot, should imagine they should be able to prevent it, when a hundred channels were laid open to it. It was, said they, shutting a window against a thief, and throw ing open the doors these dispositions gave rise to numberless cabals, which were laid to the charge of the Jesuits. Thevvy were known to be averse from a regulation that must dismember their republic; and it was supposed they might safely be speed of setting all their engines to work to prevent the ecnclu'in of the agreement. Thevvy Were banished from bott courts; the intrigues ceafld,- and the treaty v.s ratified the next thing to be done was to enforce the execution of it in America, which appeared to be no-easy,. On an avr~,;e bol: 4xc,ceo smatter,
matter. The Guaranis had not been subdued, but had B amo K freely submitted to Spain. They might, possibly, be of IX. opinion, that they had not given that crown a power of disposing of them to another. Without meditating deeply on the subtleties of the law of nations, they might think they were the best judges of what con cornet their own happiness. Their known abhorrence for the Portuguese yoke, might either mislead or inform their simplicity ; and that aversion might be strengthened by insinuations from without. So critical a situation made it necessary to proceed with the greatest circum; season, which was accordingly done the forces which both powers had sent over from Europe, and those that could be collected in America, joined to prevent or surmount the obstacles they foresaw. This parade did not terrify those against whom it was in tended. Though the seven settlements that had been ceded were not succoured by the other settlements, at least not openly; and though the guides who till then had led them on to battle were no longer at their head; they were not backward in taking up arms in defence of their liberty. But their military conduce was not such as it ought to have been. Instead of confining them selves to harass the enemy, and to cut off his subsist once, which came two hundred leagues off, the Guaranis dared to meet him in the open field, where they sustained several small checks. If they had been totally defeated, they were determined to quit the country, to carry off all they could, and to leave the conqueror no thing but a desert. Whether the two powers were intimidated by this resolute behaviour, or whether one or both found they had made a bad bargain, the treaty of exchange was cancelled in 176r, and things remained upon the old footing in America; but both courts re gained a violent resentment against the Jesuits, who were,VOL. II. I thought
Bo o K thought to have kindled a war in Paraguay, to promote',their own interept.,WE cannot say how far they may have deserved this accusation. The proofs have not been laid before the tribunal of the public. All that a writer, who has no thing to guide him but conjecture, can permit himself to say, is, that probabilities are ftrongagaint them. It was hardly possible that men who had erected a vast edifice with immense labour, could tamely see it pulled down. Independent of self-interest, which muff work power fully upon a society, which, from its first origin, had been secretly working its way to dominion, the Jesuits must have thought themselves intrusted with the felicity of those humane and simple people who had thrown themselves into their arms, and trusted them with the care of their fate. However this may be, we muff now proceed to speak of another method the Portuguese took to enlarge their possessions. Sec-rnmn:t IN the district of St. Vincent, the southernmost in of th Pore tLnefear Brazil, and the nearest to Rio de la Plata, thirteen 5gL Par. leagues from the sea, is a town called St. Paul. The,Portuguese, who founded it, were those malefactors who were first sent to America; as soon as they per civet that they were to be subject to some law, they withdrew from the places they had first inhabited, inter married with the natives, and in a short time became so profligate, that their fellow citizens broke off all inter course with them. This contempt, the fear of being re strained in their licentiousness, and the love of liberty, made them desirous of being independent. The situation of their town, which could be defended by a hand ful of men against the most powerful armies that could be sent against them, made them so bold, that they re solved to have no matters but themselves, and their am ambition was crowned with success. Profligate men of all nations flocked to join them. All travellers were firicly,forbidden
forbidden to enter the new Public. Whoever would C o o K be admitted, must come with an intent to fettle there. '". The candidates were undergo a severe trial. Those who could not go through that kind of noviciate, or who were suspected of perfidy, were murdered without mercy ; as were likewise all who shewed any inclination to desert. THE inhabitants of St. Paul had every inducement to indulge in idleness, and a quiet life; a pure air, con tant fair weather, a temperate climate, though in the 24th degree of south latitude, and a land abounding with corn, sugar, and excellent pasture ; but that rcil.:f- ness so natural to resolute banditti, that desire of domi non, which is the next step to a love of independence, the advances of liberty, which lead men to wish for glory of some kind or other, and to distinguish them selves: perhaps all these motives together, prompted them to forego an easy life, and engage in troublesome and hazardous excursions the first object of these excursions was to get slaves for their cultures. When they had depopulated the ad jacent country, they proceeded to the province of Guayra, where the Jesuits had collected and civilized the Guaranis. These new Christians were cxpolid to io many massacres, and so mn: y of tihe:m were carried off, that they suffered themselves to he perif;ldei to remove to the unwholesome banks of the Parana .nd the U;raurv,. which they still inhabit. They reaped little advantage by this compliance; for they could promise thcmllrfes no tranquillity, unless they ccwre allowed such a::rln as their aggressors had.,To propos; that they should be fmrninicd with such arms, was a matter of too delicate a nature. Spain had laid it down as a fundamental m: nim, never to intro duce the use of fire-arms amongst the Indians, left bte unfortunate vitalis of her insatiable grcc,!ini-s,Ii 2 {nl: d
B O O K should one day make use of them to extricate themselves, X , from the merciless fury of their oppressors. The law-givers of the Guaranis applauded this necessary precaution with regard to slaves, who were kept under by compulsion, but they thought it needless with men who were freely attached to the catholic kings by such gentle ties, that they never could be tempted to unloose them. They so well pleaded the cause of their converts, that in spite of opposition and prejudice, they obtained their request. The Guaranis were indulged with fire-arms in 1639, and soon made such good use of them, that they became the bulwark of Paraguay, and were able to keep off the inhabitants of St. Paul.,THOSE desperate men resolved to procure by craft what they could not obtain by force. They repaired to the places where the missionaries were used to resort; and there they fct up crosses. Then some of the most sensible of them, dressed in the habit of Jesuits, made forme trifling presents to the savages they met with, and enticed them to follow them to a habitation where they laid every thing was in readiness to make them happy. When they had assembled a certain number, the troops that lay concealed, rushed upon the too credulous In diana, loaded them with irons, and carried them off. Some who made their escape gave the alarm, which raised a general suspicion, that occasioned a stop to he put to there hostile proceedings the inhabitants of St. Paul then carried on their de precautions another way, and extended them as far as the river of the Amazons. They are said to have destroyed no less than a million of Indians. Those who have escaped their fury, in an extent of three or four hundred leagues, are grown more savage than ever. They have fled for safety to the caves of the mountains, or dispersed into the darkest recesses of the forests. Their destroyers have not met with a better fate, having all periflied,sooner
sooner or later in there dangerous excursions. But the B o o K evil genius of America has supplied their place with'va- I. vagabond Brazilians, fugitive negroes, and Europeans who were fond of that roving life the same spirit has always prevailed at St. Paul, even after some particular circumstance had induced the people to acknowledge the dominion of Portugal. Only their excursions are now in a track that rather promotes than obstruct the views of the mother country. By following the course of several rivers, they have at tempted to open a way into Peru by the north of Pa raguay. The vicinity of the lake of the Parades has put them in possession of the gold mines of Cayaba and Matto-Groffo, which they have opened, and still con tinge to work, without meeting with any interruption from Spain, who lays claim to that country. They would have carried their usurpations further, had they not been flopped by the Chiquitoj. WHILE these restless and enterprising men were rava- Productions of king the Amazon, the Plata, and the mountains of Brazil Peru, the coasts of Brazil daily improved in rich pro dubious. That colony sent over to the mother country thirty-two millions weight of sugar, which was enough for its consumption, and sufficient to supply a great part of Europe; tobacco, which could be disposed of to ad vantage both in Africa and the European nations; bal sam of capivi, a balsamic oil that distils from incisions made in a tree called Copaiba ; Ipecacuanha, a very mild emetic which is much used ; cocoa, which grew wild in some places, and was cultivated in others; cotton, fu, period to that of the Levant and the Leeward islands, and almost equal to the finest that comes from the East Indies ; indigo, which the Portuguese have never sus anciently attended to; hides, the produce of oxen that run wild, and have greatly multiplied in the forests; end, lastly, logwood.,I i 3 THE
t o o KT THE tree that produces this wood is as tall and as,I. bushy as our oak; the leaves are small, roundish, andros a fine bright green; the trunk is commonly tortuous, rugged and knotty, like the white-thorn. The blossoms which resemble lillies of the valley, are of a fine red, and exhale a fragrant smell. The bark is so thick, that there is very I;tlle leIf when the wood is stripped. This wood is very fit for turner work, and takes a fine polish; but its chief use is for the red dye. The tree grows in dry and barren places, and among the rocks; i; is found in moR provinces in the Brazils, but chiefly in that of Fernambucca and the belt of all glows ten leagues from O!inda, the capital of that distric't.,i-, exchange for these commodities, Portugal sends flour, wine, brand,, salt, woollen goods, silks, linen, frr.i l v-:res, paper; in short, .;I ;hat Europe exports to Ai.:ical , cx :kept gold and filter stuffs, which the mo ther cc:mntry ha,, whether properly or not, prohibited in her colonies the whole trade was carried en by a fleet, which fa;!-d every year from Liston and Oporto in the month of ?larch, and consisted of twenty or twenty-two. ships fer Rio-janeiro, thirty for Bahia, as many for Fernam- b-cca, and seven or eight for Para. The this parted when they came to a certain latitude, and proceeded to their respective destinations. They afterwards met at Bahia to f il far Portugal, which they reached in Sep temper or October rne var following, under convoy of si e or fix men of war, which had escorted them at their going out. Man. Y judicious speculators blamed this regulation, and throes: it-wold have been better to have left the mer chants at liberty to send out their ships, and order them home when it suited them best. This wise system would infalib';v h-v reduced the expence of freight, which r;.-t act the price of the commodities. A free trade,would
would have employed more ships, and voyages would B o o K have been more frequent. It would have strengthened, Ix. the navy, and encouraged agriculture. The intercourse between the colonies and the mother country being brisker, would have been of signal advantage to govern ment, by facilitating the proper steps to be taken with regard to their protection and authority the court of Lisbon seemed at times inclinable to yield to there considerations, but was long deterred by the fear of seeing the ships fall into the enemy's hands, if they failed separately; and afterwards by the obstacles which the viceroys of Brazil opposed to this alteration. As it was their interest on all accounts that the business of the colony should be translated in the capital, they found means to keep it there; so that this town, which is called either Bahia or San Salvador, became a very flourishing city the way to it is by the bay of All Saints, which is two leagues and a half broad at the entrance. On each side stands a fortress, intended rather to prevent landing than to hinder ships from passing by. It is thirteen or fourteen leagues in length, and interspersed with little islands, which produce cotton, and form an agreeable prosper, It grows narrow towards the bottom, which is sheltered from every attack, and makes an excellent harbour, where the largest fleets may ride unmolested. The town commands this harbour, being built on the lope of a steep hill The Dutch had enclosed it with a rampart of earth, but the Portuguese have let it moulder away, thinking the town sufficiently defended by a num ber of little forts they have erected at small distances, and by a garrison of four or five hundred men. Any engineer who had skill enough to make the most of the situation, might render it impregnable at a small ex pence.,I i 4 That
O O K THE place well deserves this attention. It contains two thousand houses, generally well built. They are very. elegantly furnished, and the more so as the sumptuary laws restrain all extravagance in dress. By a very old law, which has often been broken, and which extends to the Brazils since the year 1749, the Portuguese are forbidden to wear any gold or silver stuffs, or any laced cloaths; but their passion for finery, which no laws can eradicate, has induced them to contrive some substitute, and to wear crosses, medals, and dia mont-chaplets or beads, the rich ensigns of a poor, religion The gold they cannot wear themselves, they la wish to adorn their domestic slaves. As the situation of the town will not admit of riding in coaches, the rich, who will always be distinguished from the vulgar, have contrived to be carried in cotton hammocks. Supinely stretched upon velvet cushions, and surrounded with silken curtains which they open and shut as they please, those proud and lazy mortals move about more voluptuously, though with less expedition, than in the most easy and elegant carriages. The women seldom enjoy this luxury. This people, who are superstitious to a degree of fanaticism, will hardly al low them to go to church, covered with their cloaks, on their high festivals; and nobody is suffered to see them in their own houses. This restraint, which is the effect of an ungovernable jealousy, does not pre vent their carrying on intrigues, though they are sure of being stabbed to death upon the slightest suspicion. By a more judicious lenity than ours, a girl who, without her mother's consent, or even under her protection, yields to the importunities of a lover, is treated with less severity. But if the father cannot con real her infamy by disposing of her in marriage, he abandons her to the scandalous trade of a courtezan. Thus it is that riches bring on a train of vices and cor-,aI eruption,
eruption, especially when they are acquired by bloodshed B o 0 and murder, and are not preserved by labour. ,the want of society, consequent upon the separation of the sexes, is not the only impediment to the pleasures and enjoyments of life at Bahia. The hypo crisp of some; the superstition of others; avarice within, and pompous parade without; extreme indulgence, bordering upon extreme cruelty, in a climate where all the sensations are quick and impetuous; the distrust that at tends weakness ; that indolence that trusts every thing to slaves, whether it relates to pleasure or business: all the vices that are to be found, either separately or col lively, in the moss corrupt southern countries, con statute the character of the Portuguese at Bahia. How ever, the depravity of their manners seems to decrease, in proportion as the government of the mother country is more enlightened. Those improvements in knowledge, the abuse of which will sometimes corrupt virtuous na tions, may refine and reform a degenerate people the climate, though a good one, is attended with many inconveniencies that lessen its excellence. There is no mutton; poultry is scarce, and beef is bad. The ants destroy the fruits of the earth, as they do all over the colony. The whales devour the fish, or frighten them out of the bay. On the other hand, the wine, 'the meal, the salt meats, and all the provisions brought from Europe, are not always found when they get there; so that the good fells at an extravagant price. All articles of industry are sold at a still more exorbitant rate. The lowest among the Portuguese, wholly employed in the commerce of tobacco and some other articles, would think it a disgrace to exercise any art. Few of the free men have either genius or inclination for it. The slaves, who make up the greatest part of the population, are all employed by the rich, either in labour or for shew.,NOT-
O O K NOTWITHSTANDING there defects, which generally ,. ~ prevailed, though not to the same degree in all parts of,the colony, it had long been in a prosperous condition. In the beginning of this century, the discovery of the gold mines gave it an additional lustre that surprized all nations. Discovery THE circumstances that occasioned this discovery are a d,,dthi5' variously related. The most common opinion is, that a mondmdires caravan of Portuguese, who went from Rio-Janeiro, pen Brazil.,netrated into the continent in ice. They met with the inhabitants of St. Paul, who gave them gold-dust in exchange for some European goods, and found that they fetched it from the mines of Rana-Panama, situated in their neighbourhood.,SOME years after, some soldiers from Rio-Janeiro, who were sent to quell some Indians in the inland parts, perceived on their march home golden fish-hooks, and were informed that many torrents, rushing down from the mountains, brought gold into the valleys. Upon this information, a strict search was made, and some rocks were found upon the hills that contained gold; but this false shew of treasures was not thought worth the expence it would occasion for the procuring it; nor was a vein of gold that runs along an immense space, found rich enough to answer the working of it. After many fruitless trials, the Portuguese contented themselves with picking up gold out of the sand, like the savages, when the waters had subsided. This practice has proved very successful at Villa-Rica, and a great way up the country. Government freely grants from three to five leagues of this precious soil to any one who is able to go and make a fortune there. THE blacks are employed in looking for gold in the beds of torrents and rivers, and separating it from the find and mud, in which it is naturally concealed. Thq usual cuttle is, that every save is required to bring in,I the
she eighth part of an ounce of gold a day ; and if any are B o o . so lucky or so diligent as to pick up more, the overplus is their own property. The first use they make of it, is to buy other slaves to do their work for them, that they may live in idleness. Provided a man brings in his quantity of gold, his matter can require nothing more. It is some comfort to a save, when the drudgery that is required of him will enable him to alleviate his burden.,IF we were to estimate the gold that Brazil annually yields, by the fifth that the king of Portugal receives, it would appear to be forty-five million; of livres; but we shall not be taxed with exaggeration, if we suppose that one eighth of the duty is kept back, notwithstanding all the vigilance of governmental this account must be added the silver drawn from the illicit trade with Buenos-ayres, which was formerly immense; but the measures lately taken by Spain have reduced it to about three millions X a year. Many people even wonder that such an intercourse should fublfi at all between two nations, who, having no manufactures of their own, and taxing foreign industry pretty much alike, ought certainly to have nothing to sell. It is not considered that the coast of Portugal, being very extensive, and accessible every where, has a great ad vantage over the peninsula of Cadiz, for eluding the customs, and escaping the payment of the duties on goods brought up for exportation to America. Besides, ex changes are not the only way that Spanifh money is poured into the Portuguese coffers. Independent of all sale or purchase, the Peruvians find a great advantage in sending their money over to Europe in this indirect way. THE firs political writers who took notice of the pro. able consequences of the discovery made in Brazil, did not scruple to foretell that gold and silver wouldst 1,965,7501. z About 13;,001.,corm
B O O K come nearer to each other in value. The experience of,x. all countries and of all ages had taught them that, ~' though many ounces of silver had always been given foreman ounce of gold, because there had always been many more silver than gold mines, the value of both metals had varied in every country, in proportion to the abundance of either.,IN Japan, the proportion of gold to silver is as one to eight; in China, as one to ten ; in other parts of India, as one to eleven, twelve, thirteen or fourteen, as we advance further weft the like variations are to be met with in Europe. In ancient Greece, gold was to silver as one to thirteen. When the produce of all the mines in the universe was brought to Rome, the mistress of the world, the most set item proportion was one to ten. It went as far as one to thirteen under Tiberius. Numberless and infinite varia, tions are to be met with in the barbarous ages. In a word, when Columbus penetrated into America, the proportion was less than one to twelve the quantity of there metals which was then brought from Mexico and Peru, not only made them more com mon, but till increased the value of gold above silver, as there was greater plenty of the latter in those parts. Spain, that was of course the best judge of the proportion fettled it at one to sixteen in the coin of the king dom, and this system, with some flight variations, was adopted throughout Europe.,THIS proportion still exists; but we have no reason en that account to contradict those who had foretold that it would alter. If gold has fallen but little in the markets, and not at all in the coin, since a great quantity comes from the Brazils, this is owing to particular circumstances which do not asses the principle. A great deal of gold is now used for setting of jewels and for gilding, which has prevented the price of silver from,falling
falling so much as it would have done if our fashions Bo o it had not altered. It is this spirit of luxury that has IX. always kept up the price of diamonds, though they are grown more common. AT all times, men have been fond of making a pa rade of their riches, either because originally they were the reward of strength, and the ensign of power, or be cause they have every where obtained that regard which is due to real merit. A desire of being taken notice of, prompts a man to deck himself with the choicest and most striking gifts of nature. The same vanity, in this refpea, prevails anohgft the savages as in the civilized nations. Of all the substances that contribute to re present the splendor of opulence, none is so precious as the diamond ; nor has any been of such value in trade, or so ornamental in society. There are diamonds of all colours, and of every shade of the several colours. The diamond has the red of the ruby, the orange of the hyacinth, the blue of the sapphire, and the green of the emerald. This last is the dearest when it is of a beautiful tint. The rose diamonds, blue and yellow, are the next in value. The yellowish and the blackish. are least esteemed. Transparency and clearness are the natural and essential properties of the diamond, to which art has added the brilliant and sparkling lustre of the several faces. THERE are very few diamond mines. Till of late years, we knew of none but in the East Indies. The. oldest is in the river Gruel, that comes down from the mountains, and falls into the Ganges. It is called the mine of Soumelpour, from the name of a village situated near that part of the river where the diamonds are found. They have always taken out very few, as likewise out of the Succadan, a river in the island of Borneo. The ridge of mountains that extends from Cape Comorin to Bengal, has yielded infinitely more. They are not found in clusters, but scattered up and down, in a sandy,,stony
B o o K stony and barren soil, lying at fix, eight, ten and twelves feet below the surface, and sometimes deeper. The,right of digging for them is bought for a sum of mo ney, and the purchaser is sometimes enriched and some times ruined, according as he has good or bad luck.,Ir was to be feared that the continual wars in In dia would put an end to this source of riches, when these fears were removed by a discovery that was made at Serra-do-Frio in Brazil. Some slaves who were look ing for gold, used to find some little bright stones, that they threw away among the sand and gravel. Some cu pious miners preserved several of these singular pebbles, which were Shewn to Pedro d'Almeyda, governor ge neral of the mines. As he had been at Goo, he sus pedcd that they might be diamonds. Upon which the court of Lisbon commissioned her minister in Holland, d'Acugna, in 1733, to make the necessary inquiries into the nature of these stones. He put some of them into the hands of able artists, who having cut them, declared they were very nine diamonds.,T'HE Portuguese; immediately searched for them with such success, that the Rio-janeiro fleet brought home 1i46 ounces. This produced such a plenty, that their price sell considerably; but the ministry took such mea sures as soon made them rise to their original value, which th-e have maintained ever since. They conferred on a company the exclusive right of seeking and selling diamonds; and even to restrain the eagerness of that company, they were required to employ no more than 600 slaves in that bufii;ef. They have once been per mitted to empson - as many as they pieiae, upon condition that they pay I -: ;ivrcs tor every mine. In both ct:.;.;:;';, t!- c:rur: !,- r-ir .rd to itself all diamonds that; fh!i exceed a cc.:.-; nuir.br of carrats.,A La:' w.ii h f.:-b.ad on pain of death to encroach on the priie-e, was n1 though: a sufficient fccmuity;,V ,,5:S.~~~~~tt
and a shorter way of enforcing the execution was, to B o o.l- depopulate the places that lay near that rich mine, and Ix. to make a solitary waste of all the regions that might be tempted to interfere in so lucrative a trade. In the space of a hundred leagues, there is but one village left, which is wholly inhabited by the company's agents and slaves their privilege, constantly protected by the mother country, has never met with the least opposition. The government itself is their agent in Europe. Whatever be the produce of the mines, which must be fluctuating, the court delivers annually, to one single contractor, diamonds to the value of 12,500,000 livres I. They en gage to sell no others, and hitherto disengagement has been held sacred. They are bought up in their rough state by the English and Dutch, who cut them, and then dispose of them all over Europe, but chiefly in France, where the greatest consumption is made. They are neither so hard nor so clear as those of the East Indies, nor do they sparkle so much, but they are whiter. One of the same weight fells ten per cent cheaper. THE fined diamonds in the world are, that of the Great Mogul, which weighs 279 carrots and one fix teeth; that of the Grand Duke, which weighs 139 carrots; the great Fancy, of io carrots; and the Pitt, 136 carrots three grains. All this is very little, compared to the diamond sent from Brazil to the king of Portugal: it weighs i680 carrots, or twelve ounces and a half. As we know of no measure to ascertain the value of such a gem, an English writer has ventured to estimate it at 1,298,000,000 of livres '. A great abatement must be made in this estimate, if, as some very skilful capillaries suspect, it should prove to be but a topaz.,Ir is not known whether the diamonds of Brazil grow in the valleys where they are found, or whether they are brought down by an infinite number of torrents 35CS.;. a 56,;-ssool.,that
B O O K that rush into them, and by five small rivers that flbw,XI. X i. from the neighbouring mountains. What is certain is~,that the diamonds do not come from a quarry; that they are Scattered about; and that they are picked up in lar ger quantities in the rainy season and after violent storms. THE gold and diamond mines, added to a rich culture, should make Brazil the chief colony in the world; but in order to effect this, it (hould have been preserved from intestine commotions and foreign invasions. Both these objects therefore were taken into consideration. features ALL the mines lay in the difirids of St. Vincent taken by the cW of and Rio-Janeiro, and in the adjacent lands. Some were Lilbon, to in the hands of the inhabitants of St. Paul, and the rest our the produce of lay open to their inroads. As those banditti were too the mies. numerous and too valiant to be brought into fubjeaion,by open force, it was thought advisable to treat with them in the way of trade. As they could make no use of their new acquired wealth, without a free communi cation with the ports where the luxuries and conveniences of Europe were to be purchased, they were more tractable than was expected. They consented to pay, like the rest of the Portuguese, a fifth of their gold but they determined the amount of this tribute them selves, and never made it what it ought to have been. Government was wise enough to connive at this fraud. They foresaw that the connexions and the new way of life of the inhabitants of St. Paul, would gradually soften their manners, and that sooner or later they would be brought to submit. This revolution accordingly happened about the year 1730. An eloquent, active, and supple man found means to entice the principal men among those adventurers, and the multitude followed their example. The whole republic acknowledged the authority of the court of Lilbon, in the same manner ag all the other Portuguese in the Brazils.,BEFORE
BEFORE this great event, the town of Rio-Janeiro B O O g had been fortified, which is the mart for the produce X of all the mines, and of the neighbouring provinces for the consumption of Europe. The bay in which it is situated was first discovered in 1525 by Dias de So lis. Some French protestants, who were persecuted in their own country, made a small settlement there under the guidance of Villegagnon. This settlement consisted of fifteen or twenty huts, made of boughs and covered over with grass, after the manner of the savages in those parts. Some small bulwarks that were erected for planting of cannon, gave it the name of Fort Coligny. It was destroyed three years after by Emanuel de Sa, who laid the foundation of a town on the continent, which afterwards became considerable by the culture of tobacco, and chiefly of sugar. As it was situated at 22° 20' south latitude, it was far enough from Eu rope to expect that moderate fortifications would be sus ancient to defend it. But the temptation of attacking it having increased in proportion as it grew richer, it was thought proper to strengthen it with additional works. They were far advanced, when Du Gay Trouin took it in 1711, with such boldness and skill as redounded much to his honour, and was no small addition to the same he had already acquired. The new fortifications that have since been added to those the French had unaltered, have not made the town more impregnable, as it may be attacked on other sides, where the landing is very practicable. If gold can make its way into brazen towers through iron gates much more will iron break down gates that defend gold and diamonds. And in deed the court of Lisbon has not thought it sufficient to fortify Rio-Janeiro. BETWEEN the district of St. Vincent and the mouth of the Plata, is a barren coast, about 150 leagues in length. As it had nothing very inviting for the Portus Vo. II. K k guess,
B O O K guess, they never thought it worth while to fettle there., But as gold has lately been found in the rivers that wa-ter those deserts, some colonists have been tempted to try their fortune, and government has been endeavouring to give some liability to this new channel of wealth. It h s established some posts along the coast, and fortified St. Catherine. THIS island, which is only parted from the conti went by a very small canal, is about nine leagues long and two leagues broad. Though the land is not low, it is not feel at a distance, because it is shaded by the neighbouring mountains on the continent. Navigators ' ' find there a perpetual spring, excclicnt water, great plenty of wood, a variety of delicious fruits, vegetables which are so welcome to sailors, and a pure air, ex 'kept in the harbour, where the hills intercept the circulation of air, and make it constantly damp and un wholesomeness HUNDRED and fifty or two hundred banditti, who had fled to this island towards the beginning of this century acknowledged the authority of Portugal, but did not allow of any exclusive right. They admitted indiscriminately the ships of all nations that were failing to the South Seas, and gave them the produce of their island in exchange for arms, brandy, linen and wearing ap pares. Besides their contempt for gold, they [hewed an indifference for all the conveniences that nature did not afford them, which would have done honour to virtuous men.,THE scum and refute; of polished societies may fume times produce a decent and well-regulated society. The iniquity of our laws, the unjust distribution of property, tie m;.erics cf want;, the insolence and impunity of wealth, and the abu cf power, often makes rebels and-criminals. If w*e cole: tether all thane poor wretches who are turned out coi society bv the too great rigor and,often
often the injustice of the laws; and give them an in B o o K trepid, generous, humane and sensible chief; we stall IX. make these profligate men become honest, tractable and rational. If their necessities urge them to war, they will be conquerors; ant to aggrandize themselves they will violate the rights of nations, though stria observers of their own laws: such were the Ro mans of old. If for want of an able leader, they are left to chance and natural events, they will be mischievous restless, rapacious, unsettled, for ever at war; either amongst themselves or with their neighbours: such were the inhabitants of St. Paul. Lastly, if they can more easily live upon the natural fruits of the earth, or by agriculture and trade, than by plunder; they veil contra the virtues proper to their situation, and ths gentleness that arises from a rational love of case. Civilized by the happiness and security of an honest and peaceable life they will respect in others those rights which they themselves enjoy, and will barter the superfluities of their produce, for the conveniences of other nations : such were the people of St. Catherine.,BANISHED from their native country by the dread of those grievous punishments too often inflicted on fl l;t offences, they formed a commercial .settlement, which was beneficial to the very country that had rejected them. About the year 1738, the crown sent them a go vernon, and fortified their harbour. As it is far superior to any on that coast, it is easy to foresee that, if the riches of those parts answer the expectation of Portugal, that rendezvous of vagabonds will in time become the chief colony of the Brazils, and the mols considerable sea-port in all South Americans appears from this account, that the court of Years cm Lisbon has taken the most prudent mcaliircs to secure ,o.Ye ^- the produce of the mines. They have not paid the ctltree in same attention to the culture of lands, nor has that !iricl as point been so well fettled; vet that inestimable source of acrdln4,1·; a2 riches D.is.~fr he K k 2 riches nieces.
s o o K riches was then in a critical situation that required ma.,LX. 'ture consideration.,ALL the European nations that had settlements in America, began to cultivate the same productions that bad long enriched the Brazils. This competition had reduced the price of those commodities; and the Portuguese laboured as much as ever, while their profits grew constantly less. Their labours grew irksome, and many entirely quitted them, tempted by the hopes of enriching themselves by picking up gold. Had the mother country understood her true inter', and been less elated with this new vein of riches, the misfortunes consequent upon it, might have been prevented. This might easily have been done, by taking off the enormous duties which the colonies paid for all the goods they exported or im ported; and rather, if it was found necessary, allowing a bounty, which her new treasures enabled her to do with a liberal hand. This would have been an en encouragement to the planter, who knew his soil to be far superior to that of the Leeward islands, and was not ignorant of the other advantages he had over them, to per severe in a labour which must procure him a comfort-able subsistence, if not an ample fortune, without any anxiety or uncertainty.,ALL who have attentively observed America, know that the coasts of Brazil are very fertile. Their sugar canes are stronger than those of the rival colonies, and other.produtions have the same superiority. They are not reduced to the necessity of manuring a poor or an exhausted soil. They have such plenty of land, that when one piece of ground is spent, they can take a fresh one, that will yield plentiful crops without much trouble. The inland parts only want hands to till them, and many navigable rivers are ready to convey their pro duce to the sea. The plantations are never destroyed by hurricanes, or parched with drought. There are few,I situations
situations in the Brazils where the labours of the field B o O K are interrupted by the inclemency of the weather, and IX . none where the inhabitants are swept away by that dreadful mortality, so frequent in many parts of America The slave does not impatiently expel his subsistence from abroad, or wait till it is wasted over stormy seas, and then find it at such an immoderate price, that he cannot always procure a sufficiency. He finds with out much trouble a wholesome and plentiful provision growing out of the ground he digs. All the la hours are performed with ease by the help of the innumerable herds that graze on the meadows. The matier, on his part, can be under no apprehension of seeing an end to his good fortune, as he well knows that the co tony has not yet attained to a tenth of its culture. They already employ 15o,oco blacks, which are annually re crusted by 7 or 8000, and may easily be multiplied. As it is customary for the planter to import them directly from Africa, he has nothing to fear from the negligence, unskilfulness or dishonesty of the European merchants. Their ships have the double advantage of making a small stay at the end of their voyage, and of a short and easy passage both going and coming.,NOTWITHSTANDING all this, the culture of Brazil produced but 22,000,000 weight of raw sugar, II or 12,0oo bales of tobacco, a little sarsaparilla, cocoa, coffee, rice and indigo; to which were added some whalebone, woods for dying, building, and cabinet work, and 14 or 15,000 hides among all the methods for increasing the produce of to rich a country, the Portuguese ministry have given the preference to the freedom of the Brazilians, as being the safest, the cheapest, and the kindest. They de claret in 1755, that for the future, all the subject of the crown, whether they were so by their own free will Or by compulsion, Should be deemed citizens to all in-,K k 3 tents
B O O K tents and purposes, and should be entitled to that appel-,X. nation on the same terms as the Europeans. No overpower has treated its American subject with so much humanity. This singular circumstance, though so frisking has not even been taken notice of. Every one is intent upon politics, war, pleasure, or fortune. A re volution so favourable to humanity, escapes every eye, even in the middle of the eighteenth century, in this enlightened and philosophical age. The public welfare is much talked of, but it is not seen, it is not felt. PORTUGAL would be revenged of this indifference, 1' the new system had produced the desired effect. We should see the Brazilians applying themselves to the cul ture of their lands, and multiplying their produce. Their labour would enable them to procure numberless comforts which they never enjoyed. The fight of their happiness would tempt the savages to quit their forests, and to embrace a more quiet way of lile. By degrees, the influence of their example would spread, and in time, all Brazil would be civilized. A mutual con silence would be established between the Americans and the Europeans, and they would become but one na tho All would concur in producing the flock of an immense trade to the mother country, which on her part would take cere to lend a constant supply for the grow iii cnr.i motion of the colony. An exact balance would be kept up between their reciprocal interests, and great care would be taken tit nothing should interrupt so valuable a harmony. The Portuguese would at Last, 4y-one at of humanity, have made amends for all the mischief they have done to the inhabitants of America.,U'SFORTUNATELY thei' fair prospects are come to nothing. In order to entertain any rational hopes of success, this great change should have been brought on by low degrees. The Brazilians might insensibly have bc;n induced to a relish for the sweets of society ; thy,,might
might have been trained up to useful labours; they would 1 o . K,IX. gradually have got the better of their natural laziness, and been prompted to with for property. The way be ing thus prepared for a happy revolution, much would still have remained to be done, which seems to have escaped the penetration of the ministry. They have not granted lands to the naturalized subjects in convenient places. They have not provided them with the necessary Stock to begin with. They have not had able guides to direct them ; nor have their chiefs been men of integrity and humanity. Nothing, therefore, has been done for the public good, by giving civil liberty to the Brazilians; and much has been done against it, by abridging the Europeans of their freedom, in subjecting them to the tyrannical monopoly of an exclusive privilege. Nobody had foreseen, or even suspected, a regulation so contrary to the genius of the nation. PORTUGAL has made immense discoveries in Africa, Monopolies and in the East and Wrest Indies, without the assistance of eftahiitcd any company. Mere societies of merchants, in which of Brail. kings, princes, and noblemen were concerned, fitted out large fleets for those three parts of the world, raised the Portuguese name above all others, and brought about the most important and most intcreftingcommercial revolution the world had ever experienced. It was not to be expected that a nation, which, in the barbarous ages, had pursued the inestimable advantages of competition, would at lair, in an enlightened age, adopt a pernicious system, which, by collecting the principles of life and motion into a small part of the body politic, leaves nothing in all the rest but languor and death. THIs system was formed among the ruins of Lilbon, when the earth had as it were cast out her inhabitants, and left them no safety but on the sea or in the other hemisphere. The dreadful shocks that had thrown down that stately capital still continued, and the flames that,K k had
I 0 o K had reduced it to ashes were scarce extinguished, when,Ix. an exclusive company was established, for the purposes selling the wine so well known by the name of Port, which is drank in many of the colonies, in part of the north, and chiefly in England. The city of Oporto, the first in the kingdom for population, riches and bu finest since the fall of Lisbon, justly took the alarm, as thinking her trade was going to be ruined by this fatal alienation of the rights of the whole nation, in fa your of a private association. The province between the Douro and the Minho, the most fruitful in the king dom, could no longer depend upon her culture. The people grew desperate, and then seditious, and their fe edition made the government cruel. Twelve hundred persons were either executed, condemned to hard la your, banished to the forts in Africa, or reduced to beggary by the confiscation of their goods. The mo nopa!y which had occasioned all this mischief, still went on, and continues to this day, attended with all that train of calamities which were foreseen, even by those who are leaf conversant in political speculation that fatal experiment, which ought to have been a warning to the ministry, made no impression upon them. They had already, ever since the 6th of June 1755, created the Maragnan company; and, far from receding, they erected the Fernambucca company, four years after, and thereby enslaved all the northern past of Brazil. The flock of the first company consisted of 12co shares, and the other of 3400. Their charter is for twenty years, and foreigners fettled in Portugal may become proprietors. They exercise the moss horrid tyranny over the immense coast that has been made over them. This attempt upon liberty and property has excited a violent spirit of animosity, which is constantly kept up by a visible diminution of commodities,,"Ws
-WE are ignorant of the reasons that have induced the B o O K court of Lisbon to take so unpopular a shep, which has IX' given offence to all orders of the fate, and all parts of the monarchy. It was pretended that it was done to prevent the contraband trade; but that could never be the only motive for so tyrannical a measure. Exclusive companies are more likely to increase than to check the con brabant trade; and besides, it is well known that none is carried on in the south of Brazil, the only part that is affected by the monopoly. The only foreign connections this part of America has, are the dealings of St. Catherine with the ships that frequent the South Seas, and those of Rio-Janeiro with ships of different nations, which, under various pretences, put in there on their way to and from the Leaf Indies. WHATEVER may have given rise to charter companies we may venture to affirm that among the powers of Europe, Portugal has not been the greateR loser by this absurd system. That kingdom has adopted the fatal custom of being a bare operator of the trade that is car cried on in its own colonies, So singular an infatuation is come on by degrees. THE first conquests of the Portuguese in Africa and Causes Asia, did not trifle the feeds of their industry. Though Pdg^yof .Lisbon was tee general warehouse for India goods, her and of its own silken and woollen manufactures fill went on, and colonie were sufficient for the consumption of the mother country and of Brazil. The national activity extended to every thing, and made some amends for the want of po pulsation, which was daily increasing. Amongst the many calamities that Spanish tyranny brought upon the kingdom, the Portuguese could not complain of a cessation of labour at home; nor was the number of trades much lessened when they recovered their liberty the happy revolution that placed the Duke of Bra gaza upon the throne, was the period of that decay.,The
B O K The people grew enthusiasm. Some crossed the fas,, to go and defend dillon; potfcli9nns against an enemy whom they imagined mere formidable than he really was. The rest took up arms to cover the frontiers. Private interest was silenced by the interest of the whole, and every patriot was fjiicitou; for his country alone. It umght naturally be expected that when the first heat was over, every one would realme his usual enm.povmncnt; but unfortunately the cruel war which followed that great event, was attended with filch devastations in an open country, that the people chose rather not to work at all, than expose themselves to see the fruit of their labours continually destroyed. 'She ministry favoured this inaction by the measures they took, which were highly blameable. THEIR situation put them under a necessity of form ing alliances. Political reasons secured to them all the ene mies of Spain. The advantages they reaped from thediver- lion made in Portugal, could not but attach them to her interest. If the new court had formed such extensive views as their proceedings seemed to indicate, they would have known that they had no need to make any concessions in order to secure friends. Bv .n ill judged precipitation, they ruined their affairs. 'They gave up their trade to ether powers, who were almost as much interested in its preservation as they were themselves. This infatuation made those powers imagine they might venture any thing, and they accordingly stretched their privileges that had been granted them, far beyond what was intended. The industry of the Portuguese was dcfirnyed by this competition but was again excited by an error of the French minifery.,FRAKCE, who then had but a little bad tobacco, and no sugar at all, in 1644, without any apparent reason, prohibited the importation of sugar and tobacco from Brazil. Portugal, in return, prohibited the importations
of all French manufactures, the only ones they valued B o o K at that time. Genoa immediately seized upon the silk, trade, and has engrossed it ever since; but the nation, after some hesitation, began in 1681 to manufacture their own woollen goods ; and having seduced some English artificers, were enabled, in l684, to prohibit several kinds of cloth, and soon after all forts england, which had advanced her own trade with Portugal upon the ruins of that of France, was much chagrined at the turn it had taker. For a long time, the English trove to open the communication afresh, and more than once they thought they had attained their end, but at last found themselves further from it than ever. There was no knowing where all this would end, when a revolution happened in the political system of Europe, that at once overturned all the former ideas.,A GRANDSON of Lewis XIV. was called tother throne of Spain. All .nations were alarmed at this accession of power to the house of Bourbon, which they already thought too powerful and too ambitious. Portugal in particular, who had always considered France as a fast friend, now beheld in her an enemy who must with, and, perhaps, promote her ruin. This induced her to apply for the protection of England, who never failed to turn every negociation to her own commercial advantage, and was far from neglecting this opportunity. The English ambassador Methuen, a profound and able ne gociator, signed a treaty, on the 27th of December 1703, by which the court of Lisbon engaged to permit the importation of all British woollen goods, on the same footing as before the prohibition, on condition that the Portugal wines should pay a duty one third less than the French, on being imported into England.,THE advantages of this stipulation w:e very real for one of the parties, but by no means so for the other. England obtained an exclusive privilege for her manu-,fat.arcs,
X o 0 K features, as the prohibition remained in full force with,3X- r regard to those of other nations; but granted nothing on,her side; having already fettled, for her own interest, the very thing that' the artfully pretended to grant as a great favour. Since France bought no more cloths of the English, they had observed that the dearness of French wines was prejudicial to the balance of trade, and had endeavoured to lessen the consumption, by lay ing heavier duties upon them. They have again in created them from the same motive, and fRill made a merit of it to the court of Lisbon, as being a proof of singular friendship. The Portuguese manufactures sell, being unable to support the competition of the English. Great Britain clothed her new ally, and as the wine-oil, salt, and fruit The bought, was a trifle in comparison to what she sold, it was made up with the gold of Brazil. The balance was more and more in favour of the English, and, indeed, it could not well be otherwise.,ALL who are conversant with the theory of commerce, or have attended to its revolutions, know that an active, rich and sensible nation, who have once got possession of a capital branch of trade, will soon engross the whole. They have so great an advantage over their competitors, that they weary them out, and make themselves masters of the countries where their industry is exerted. Thus it is that Great Britain has found means to engross the whole produce of Portugal and her colonies the English find the Portuguese in clothing, food, small wares, materials for building, and all their articles of luxury, and return them their own materials ma manufactured. This employs a million of English artic fibers and husbandmen they furnish them with (hips, and with naval and warlike stores for their settlements abroad, and carry on all their navigation at home,,THEY
THEY carry on the whole money trade of Portugal. B o O t They borrow money in London at three or three and a I half per cent, and negociate it at Lisbon, where it is worth ten. In ten years time, the capital is paid by the interest, and still remains due they engross all the inland trade. There are English houses fettled at Lisbon which receive all the commodities of their own country, and distribute them to merchants, who dispose of them in the provinces, mostly for the profit of their employers. A small al romance is the only reward of their industry, to the disgrace of a nation who is mean enough to work at home for the profit of another they carry off even the commission trade. The fleets destined for the brazils are the sole property of the English. The riches they bring home are all their own. They will not eyed' sussex them to pass through the hands o"'the-Portuguefe, and only borrow their name, because they cannot do without it. These foreigners disappear as soon as they have got the fortune they in tended, and leave that nation impoverished and ex hauled, at whose expence they have enriched themselves. It is demonstrable from the registers of the fleets, that in the space of sixty years, that is, from the discovery of the mines to the year 1756, 2,400,000,000 livres r worth of gold has been brought away from Brazil, and yet it is fat that in 1754, all the cash in Portugal amounted to no more than 15 or 20,000,000 z, and at that time the nation owed 72,000,000 '; so that Portugal must have been in a dreadful situation but what Lisbon has lost, London has gained. England by her natural advantages, was only intended for a secondary power. Though the changes that had successively happened in the religion, government, and in ry os5,oo,ooo . z On an average not much more than 750,00o0.,3,~1~50,~oc .du.try,duftry
B .O0 K dunry of the English had improved their condition, ih-,x creased their strength, and unfolded their genius, they could not possibly at a capital part. They knew by ex prince that the means which, in ancient governments, could raise a nation to any pitch, when without any connection with its neighbours, it emerged singly out of nothing, were inadequate in modern times, when the intercourse of nations made the advantages of each common to all, and thereby left to numbers and strength their natural superiority. Since soldiers, generals and na tions fought for hire; since the powers gold opened every cabinets and made every treaty England had learnt that the greatness of a state depended upon its riches, and that its political power was estimated by its millions. This truth, which must have alarmed the ambition of the English, became favourable to them as soon as they had prevailed upon Portugal to depend on them for ne cefiaries, and had bound them by treaties to an impossibility of procuring them otherwise. Thus was that kingdom made dependent on a false friend for food and raiment. These were, to borrow the expression of a certain politician, like t.o anchors which the Britons had fastened upon that empire. They went further fill: they made the Portuguese lose all regard, all weight, all influence in thegener system of affairs, by persuading them to have neither forces nor alliances. Trust to us, said the English, for your safety ; :we will negociate and fight for you. Thus, without bloodshed or labour, and without any of the calamities that attend conquest they made themselves more cfl equally matters of Portugal than the Portuguese were of the mines of Brazil.,EVE.Y thing is connected together, both in nature and in politics. It is haidlv possible that a nation should lose its agriculture and its industry, without a visible decay of the liberal arts, letters, sciences, and all the found principles of guiirnmcnt and administration. Portugal isis
a melancholy instance of this truth. Since Gr:atBritain B O o K has condemned that people to a state of inaction, they are l fallen into such barbarism as is hardly credible. That light which has shone all over Europe, seems to have flopped at the Pyrenees. They have gone backward, and have incurred the contempt of surrounding nations, after having excited their emulation and provoked them to jealousy. The advantage of having enjoyed excellent laws, whilst all other hates groaned under horrible con fusion, hath availed them nothing. They have lost the tur. of their genius, by forgetting the principles of reason, morality, and politics. The efforts they might make to emerge from this state of languor and blindness, may, possibly, prove ineffectual ; because good reformers are not easily to be found in that nation which stands most in need of them. Men who are qualified to change the face of empires, commonly come from far; and seldom start up at once. They generally have their fore runners, who awaken the minds of the people, dispose them to receive the light, and prepare the necessary in filaments for bringing about a great revolution. As there is no appearance of any such preparatory steps in Portugal, it is to be feared the nation must frill con tinge in this humiliating condition, unless they will adopt the maxims of more enlightened states, making the proper allowances for their situations, and call in the assistance of foreigners capable of directing them the first shep towards their recovery, that leading e. oi-:of one without which all the rest would be unsteady, un Sri :r:r certain, and even dangerous, would be to shake off the an i;, .c- English yoke. Portugal in her present situation, can 1l. not do without foreign commodities; therefore, it is her interest to promote the greatest competition of fellers fie possibly can, in order to reduce the price of what she must needs buy. As it is no leis the interest of the Portuguese to dispose of the overplus of their own pro-duce
B o A, duce. and that of their colonies, they ought,. forr:th,X. same reason, to: invite as many buyers as, possible to their,,h- ' arbours, to enhance the price and increase the quantity. of their exports. This oeconomical system i1l.Ser- vainly admit of no objection. BY the treaty of 1703, thePortuguefe are only bound to permit the importation of woollen goods from England on the terms stipulated before the provision. Now they might-safely grant the same privilege to other nations, without incurring the blame of having broken their engagement. A liberty granted to one nation, was never interpreted as an exclusive and perpetual privilege that could abridge the prince who granted its <f his right of extending it to other nations. He is-the undoubted judge of what suits his own kingdom. We cannot easily guess what rational objection a British mi sifter could make to a king of Portugal who should tell him; I will encourage merchants to come to my domi nions, who will feed my subjects as cheap and cheaper than you, and will take the produce of my colonies, whereas you will take nothing but gold. :-ewe may judge of the effect this wise conduct would have, by what has happened, independent of this spirited resolution. Portugal receives annually to thevalUe of seventy millions in foreign commodities, which file pays for in the produce of her land, and in gold and diamonds, or remains debtor. The allurement of :a gain of thirty-five per cent. which is no uncommon thing in this trade, induces all nations to be concernedin-itas much as possible; nor are they deterred from it byythe,. well-grounded fear of being never paid, or at leathery late. Molt of them have been successfully their endeavours France and Italy have engrossed one: third of thole imports. Holland, Hamburgh,. and thereto( the north carry off as much; and England, which for merely absorbed almost the whole, comes in for the re-,- aini'g
raining third. It appears from the registers of the B o K customs, that in the space of five years, from 1762 to lx. 1766 inclusively, England has sent goods to Portugal, only to the value of 951613,547 livres 1o sous; and has received commodities to the amount of 37,761,075 livres ; so that the balance in money has been but 57,692,475 livres d. WHAT deceives all Europe as to the extent of the English trade, is that all the gold of Brazil is conveyed by the road of the Thames. That influx seems to be a natural and necessary consequence of the business car cried on by that nation. But the truth is, that metals are not allowed to go out of Portugal, and, therefore, can only be brought away by men of war, which are not liable to be searched; that Great Britain sends twd every week, as regularly as the sea will permits and that these ships bring the riches of all nations into their island, whence the merchants dispersed in the several countries draw them off, either in kind or by bills of exchange, paying one per cent.,THB British ministry, who are not the dupes of these dazzling appearances, and are but too sensible of the decay of this most valuable trade, have for some time past taken incredible pains to restore it to its former State. Their endeavours will never succeed, because this is one sf.thofe events which are not within the reach of poli tical wisdom. If the evil arose from favours granted to rival nations, or if England had been debarred from her former privileges, well conduCted negociations might set all right again. But this is not the case. The court of Lisbon has invariably pursued the same track, both with regard to Great Britain and to all other nations. Her sub seas have had no other inducement to give the preference to the commodities brought from all parts of Europe's 4,183,09z1. 145. cd. 1. 1,65.,0471. o 5. 7 d. I. L 2,524,0451. 15s. d. . :VOL. L. L 1 than
.i o K- than that those of their old friends were so loaded withstands, that they bore an exorbitant price. ThePorPu- guess will get many articles cheaper still, whenever their government Shall establish a perse equality in their ports for all nations the court of Lisbon, after removing in some measure the disadvantages of their passive trade, should endeavour to make it active. Their own inclination, the tastes the age, and the desire of same, seem to incline them to give the preference to manufactures. A tolerable quantity of coarse woollen susss are already wove in the inland provinces, though the wool is too short, and might be better employed to other purposes. Governmer)t!has silk manufactures at Lisbon and at Lamego, which cost more than they are worth. If they do not weave gold or silver, it is because the wear of them is shrilly pro habited both at home and abroad. We have shewn above that this kind of industry is not fit for Spain; and for the same reasons it is unfit for Portugal-they ought rather to think of encouraging agriculturists climate is favourable to silk, of which, there was formerly great plenty. The baptized Jews made it their business to breed worms and to prepare the, flk, till they were persecuted by the inquisition, which was till more severe and more powerful under the house of Braganza, than it had ever been under the Spanish do minion. Molt of the artificers fled to the kingdoms Valencia, and those who chose to sell their industry, removed with their effects to England and Holland, which improved the activity of both those countries. This dispersion was the ruin es the silk trade in Port tubal, so that no trace of it is now to be seen; but it might be resumed the next cultivation that ought to be attended to, is that of the olive tree. It now exists, and constantly supplies all that is wanted for home consumption, be-sides
Sides shall' quantity every year for exportation ;bit-13 o o K tliis'is :rot sufficient. Portugal might easily enter into. IX . a open competition with the nations that snake the greatest profit of that commodity, which is wholly confined to the southern provinces of Europe. THEIR wool is likewise capable of improvement. Though it is-inferior to that of Spain, the French, the Dutch, and even the English, buy up twelve or thirteen thousand quintals every year, and would buy more, if it were to be had in all markets. All who have travelled through Portugal, with that spirit of observation, which enables men to form a right judgment of things are-of opinion that double the quantity might be obtained, without injuring the other branches of industry, and that on the contrary it might tend to their improve tent. - Tian of salt seers to have been inbred attended to. The north annually takes off r5o tons, which may Cost t,5oooo6b livres It is corrosive, and lessens the weight and the tate of meats ; but it preserves fish and Hell longer than French fait. This property will oc cation a greater demand for it; as navigation grows more extensive. WE cannot take upon Us to promise the same success With'regard to their wines. They are so indifferent, that it is surprising how so many nations in Europe could ever think of making them their constant drink. It is fill more surprising how the Portuguese ministry could ever shake such an ill use of their authority, as to impede so profitable a culture. The order for rooting up the vines could only be dictated by private interest or sale views. The pretence for so extraordinary a law is so absurd, that no body has given credit to it. It is very well known that the ground where the vines have Rood, can never be fit for the culture of corne About 65,69ci.,L1 2 Bur,
B O O K BUT, if the thing were ever so practicable, it souci -I. fill be an unwarrantable infringement of the facred''ai,unalienable right of property. In a monastery printed every thing belongs to all ; nothing is the property of any individual, but the joint property of the whole com unity; it is one single animal with twenty, thirty, forty, a thousand, ten thousand heads. But it is not the same in society. Here every single head has its property, a share of the general wealth, which he is absolute master of, and which he is free to use, or even to abuse, as he thinks proper. A private man must be at liberty to: let his ground lie fallow, if it suits him, without the in intervention of administration. If government sets up for a judge of the abuse, it will soon set up for a judge of the use of things ;' and then there is an eld' of all true notions of liberty and property. If it can require me to employ my own property according to its fancy; if it infli punishments on my disobedience, my negligence or my fully, and that under pretence of public utility, I am no longer absolute master of my own, I am only an administrator, who is to be directed by the will of another. The man who lives in society, muff in this respect be left at lii betty to be a bad citizen, because he will soon be fe merely punished by poverty, and by contempt, which ris worse than poverty. He who burns his own corfu, or throws his money away, is such a fool as is fel dom met with, and, therefore, ought not to be re framed by prohibitive laws, which would be bad in themselves, as being an attack upon the universal and sacred notion of property. In every well regulated constitution the business of the magistrate must be confined to what concerns the public safety, inward tranquillity, the contra of the army, and the observance of the laws Wherever authority is stretched beyond this mark, : w may venture to affirm that the people are exposed to de-depredation.
gradation. If we take a survey of all ages and all na B 0 O K lions, that great and fine idea of public utility will free sent itself to our imagination under the symbolical figure of a Hercules, knocking down with his club one part of the people, amidst the shouts and acclamations of the other part, who know not that they are quickly to fall under the same strokes. To return to Portugal; that country stands in need of other measures than have hitherto been pursued to restore the most important of its cultures. It is in so languid a state, that the Portuguese annually import three fourths of the corn they consume. It is well known that before they had applied themselves to navigation, they supplied great part of the Mediterranean with corn, and sometimes England itself. Their own wants now call for the exertion of their activity. Nothing but a totaL.iFnpoffibility can justify a government, .that suffers both the mother country and her colonies to depend upon other nations for the common necessaries of life. THE court of Lisbon would be very dangerously Mistaken in imagining that time alone may bring about so great a revolution. It concerns them to prepare the way, by lessening the duties, and especially by diminish ing the expence of raising them, which is sometimes more oppressive than the duty itself. When this impediment is removed, all kinds of encouragement must be given One of the most fatal prejudices, and most de furtive of the happiness of men and the prosperity of nations, is that of supposing that hands alone are want ing to cultivate the ground. The experience of all ages has shewn, that much muff be given to the earth, be fore much can be required of her. There are not, perhaps, in all Portugal, twenty farmers who are able to advance the necessary sums. Government muff, there fore, assist them. A revenue of about forty-four millions',,f 1.9q coco I.,1, 1 3 near
X o0 t near half of which comes from stepmother countfy,-taris . * ,t ,-the rest from the colonies, will facilitate these iberaliits,,which are oftentimes more economical thai the nest sordid avarice. ' THIS first change will be productive of others. The arts necessary for culture will infallibly rise and grow ii with it. Industry will spread by degrees, and put forth all its-branches, and Portugal will no longer exhibit an instance of a ravage people in the midst of civilized fid tions, The citizen will no longer be forced to-devote himself to celibacy, or to go abroad for employment. Commodious houses will rise out of ruins; and work Shops take place of convents. Now, like those ibruis that lie scattered and lowly creep on the ground that covers the richest mines, the fubjeas of this drooping fate, will no longer starve, with their golden rivers and mountains. Gold and silver will circulate again, and will no longer be buried in churches. Superstitious will be at an end, together with laziness, ignorance and de season. The minds of men, who now divide their time between debauchery and pious expiations of it, who are fond of miracles and magic arts, will then be inflamed with public spirit. The nation freed from its fetters, and restored to its natural activity, will exert itself with a spirit worthy of its former exploits.,PORTOGAL will then remember, that £he was indebted to her navy for her opulence, her glory, and her strength, and will attend to the restoration of it. It will no longer be reduced to eighteen men of war, ill built, and;as ill manned and armed, and about a hundred merchant-mein, from fix to eight hundred tons burden, still more wretch ely fitted out. Her population, which has insensibly funk from three millions of fouls to eighteen hundred thdifanid, will revive to cover her harbours and roads with aaiir fleets. The revival of her navy, no doubts-will iBe difficult for a power whose flag is not known on-any of,the
the european seas, and who, for a century past has B o.o K given upp: her navigation to whoever would undertake it; Ix. but; a government once grown wise, will surmount every obstacle. When once they have recovered their proper share of navigation, they will keep immense sums in the nation, which are constantly expended for freight. THIS change will influence the islands dependent on Portugal. The port of Madeira will no longer be open to the English. The mother country will have the sole power of disposing of twenty-five or thirty thousand pipes of rich wine which that island produces. It will be irn the roads of Lilbon and Oporto that all nations will fetch that choice liquor, which is in such request in the four quarters of the globe. The Azores will furnish Portugal with oxen for the plough and for food, which cannot so well be bred at home, on account of the dry ness of the soil; and the Cape de Verd islands will sup ply them with more mules than they want. The New England people formerly fetched them thence to carry to the Leeward islands ; but a great mortality that happened in rico, put an end to that trade, The vacancies will soon be filled up, by a close attention to the breeding f this cattle. THESE alterations will be productive of still more material ones. Brazil, which has no other fault than that of being too large for Portugal; which has only a few habitations scattered along the lea coasts; and has no other colonists in the inland parts, but what are em toyed in the mines, will then assume a new face: their government will be new modelled. Their masters will be convinced how great a mistake has been com mitted with regard to all the modern nations, by trans, fearing to the new discovered world all the absurdities of feudal government, accumulated on the old through a long sees of ages. A few plain laws will be substituted
st b E ian te place of the subtle arts of chicane, which are io,- =. '. .bear than refinements on tyranny, and an increase of,Spprenon. ' 'the execution of these laws will be secured,: if:em- employments are not sold, and if a proper choice is made, and.'good governors appointed to command Para, Bahia and Rio-Janeiro, who shall be independent on each other, though the latter has the title of viceroy. The vigilance of the three chiefs will put an end to the treacheries and enormities which the Brazilian Portuguese have too long been guilty of, or caused their slaves to commit having thus reformed their manners, the next Rep will be to regulate their administration. The tyranny of fleets being once-removed, and every one left at liberty to send out ships from the mother country, this freedom will be attended with other-favourable innovations. Ex petitions .will not be confined to the roads of Lisbon and-oporto, because as the other ports bear their part in the public expences, it is but fit they should enjoy the same Advantages. - Exclusive companies will be abolished. That load of taxes, which is the bane of Europe, will no longer afflict the Brazils. The colony will note devoured with that swarm of contractors who are the ruin of the moRs successful labours. The mother Country will be convinced that the has no right to demand any thing of her colonies but their produce. This produce itself will not at first be impeded, by enormous duties that stop its circulation. Gold, that ensign of all riches, that choicest commodity of Brazil, freed from the fetters that obstructed its progress, will freely fia* into all countries which have any thing to offer in reL turn. Dutch, French, and English men of war, need nor then lend their flag to smuggle it out. .agriculture, ennobled by liberty, will fake off the yoke of oppression, the consequence of Ignorance avarice, and despotism. The means of improvement willow daily
.daily, increase. The Portuguese, who first opened Africa t 0 0 o-to ,other nations, have, notwithstanding their decay, .j, preserved Come considerable advantages in that country, They possess large colonies on the best coast for the Have trade, whilst the rival nations have only small factories; and some have none at all. By that means, they get-their negroes one third cheaper than they are to be had in the ports where there is a competition; so that the Brazils will certainly take a great many more, when once the duty is taken off, which is now ten per cent. upon the heads of these unhappy Africans, as it is upon all commodities that come from Europe. The mother country will give a further encouragement to this trade, since after all, ambition will carry it on against the 'expostulations of humanity, by permitting the colony to make their own salt, instead of sending for it from Portugal as they are now compelled to do. This will fa militate the hauling of their ships, by adding salt beef and pork to their provision, which'hitherto has been only cassava and dried fish. Then, instead of thirty or forty ships, from sixty to a- hundred tons burden, which are annually fitted out, they will fit out a hundred, and In-time many more if they chuse it.,THIS improvement might be hastened, by-permitting a direct navigation from the Brazils to the East Indies. This trade peculiarly suits Portugal; and it would be good policy to extend it as much as possible. As the Portuguese neither have nor can have any manufactures of their own, they ought to give the preference to the lighted and cheapest linens and stuffs, which are most suitable to their own climate and that of their colonies, and absolutely necessary for their African settlements. The mother country would be no loser by associating Brazil to this branch of industry. They cannot have forgot that they formed a company in 1723, which did riot succeed. From that time, only one ship has benefited
o o fitted out yearly, which for along while put nat Bahla,on her retmn-from Aria, and for some years. pa, calls for rfriefmc mts at Angola, by order of the government to which it belongs. Many more would be :lent from BrcaiL Their contraband trade with Buenos-Ayres would supply them with piastres for their traffic, and the Amazon with part of the materials for navigation. The banks of that immense river abound with excellent wood. It is known to be very lasting; the worm, that courge of the navy, never gets at it, and the scurvy never appears on board the Ships that are made of it. The difficulty of getting hemp or flax is already removed. Two plants have been discovered, which grow in great plenty in the forests about Bahia, called Cravat and,"ua, which make very good thread for coarse linen, fail cloth and ropes. Unfortunately a private man in the neighbourhood has got a patent for fifteen years for the sole working of it. Atr infallible way to the speedy attainment of these great ends would he to open the ports of Brazil to all nations. Sci liberty would give the colony that alacrity which it never can acquire without it. Tenacious that would have dealings with them, would be interested ia their prosperity and defence. They would, be far more serviceable to the mother country, by the gradual increase of their customs than by a pernicious monopoly, Portugal that has no manufactures pursue a different salem from the other powers in Europe, who have more goods than they want to supply their American settlements.; and the very competition that might be prejudicial to them, will certainly be very advantageous to the Portuguese. IF the court of Lisbon does not determine for this f.hemne, which no doubt may be liable to some objections it must at least repeal the law that forbids all far reigns settling in the Brazils. Not fifty years ago-there were several English, Dutch, and French houses,,whofc
whose induferyencouraged every kind of labour. Far . o o0,Ix. from-driving them away by barbarously oppressing them, they ought to have been courted, and encouraged to fix there, and to engage others to follow their example. Not that, strictly speaking, there is a scarcity of white people in those vast regions. By a calculation that may be depended on, they amount to near 6oo,ooo. This is more than are to be found in any other colony; but the Creole Portuguese are so indolent, so corrupt, so passionately addicted to pleasure, that they are grown incapable of the smallest applications business. Per laps, the only way to rouze this degenerate race, would be to set before their eyes some laborious men, and to allot them suitable parcels of land. THIS might easily be done. On the banks of the post navigable rivers are large plains that belong to nobody, and might enrich any one who would take the pains to plough them up. Even by the sea side, it s would be an easy matter to:fettle a good number of far mers. On the first discovery of that country, govern. ment had granted whole provinces to several noblemen, under the title of captainships; but has afterwards with drawls these grants, and given them in exchange, titles, pensions, or other favours. By this means a vast domain is returned to the crown, which now lies waste, and might be usefully employed. An infinite number of English, French, and Dutch colonists, whose plantations are exhausted, and many Europeans who have the fashionable passion of wanting to make a fortune, would gladly remove thither with their industry and their whole flock.,BY way of encouragement, they must be secured from the fury of the inquisition. That cruel tribunal has never, indeed, been erected in Brazil; but they have their emissaries there, who are worse, if possible, than them fells. It may be remembered, that from the year 1701,tq
B:o o Ka t:P7S, those infamous men sent over .to Europe a,5. prodigious number of priests, monks, and proprietors offhand, and even negroes, whom they accused of Judaism. Those oppressions ruined agriculture to such a degree, that the feet of 1724 and 1725 found no provisions there. In i728, the government enabled that for the future, if any colonist was taken up by the holy office, his goods and chattels and his slaves should not be for seized, and that his fortune should descend to his heirs. The mischief that was already done, could not be re paired by this decree, nor can mutual confidence be re stored, till the authors of the disorders that have ruined the colony are recalled. EVES this will not be sufficient, without abridging the power of the clergy. Sometimes have been known to favour the corruption of priests, to weaken the ascendant that superstition gives them over the minds of the people. That this method is not always infallible appears from what has paired in the Brazils,. nor is. this execrable policy, reconcilable with the prin cipher of morality. It would be safer and better to open the. doors of the january to all the citizens without distinction. Philip II, when he became mailer of Portugal enacted that they should be shut against all such whose blood was tainted with any mixture with Jews, heretics, negroes or Indians. This dissension has. given a dangerous superiority to a set of men who were al ready too powerful. It has been abolished in theatrical settlements; why should it not be so in those of America ? Why, after taking from the clergy the authority they derived from their birth, should they not be abridged of the power they assume on account of their riches-some politicians have asserted, that no government ought ever to appoint a fixed income for the clergy, but that their spiritual ferries should be paid by .thou who have recourse to them. That this method would,be
be airpur to their zeal and vigilance. That they would WO 0 OI, grow'daily more expert in the cure of fouls by experts once,. study, and application. These statesmen have been opposed by philosophers, who maintained that an ceconomy which would tend to increase the activity of the clergy, would be fatal to public tranquillity; and that it was better to lull that ambitious body into idle' ness, than to give it new strength. They observe that churches and religious houses which have no fettled in' come, ate so many repositories of superstition, main gained at the expence of the lower class of people; where, faints, miracles, relicks, and all the inventions with which imposture has loaded religion, are made. So that it would be a benefit to society, if the clergy had a hated provision; but. o moderate as to restrain the am' ambition of the body and the number bs its 'members. Poverty makes them fanatical ; opulence independent ; and both concur to render them seditious. - - THIS was the opinion of a philosopher, who said so a' great monarch ; There is a powerful body in your dominions who have assumed a power of suspending the labour of your subjects, whenever they please to call them: into their temples. This body is authorized to speak to' them a hundred times a year, and to speak in-the name of God. They tell them that the most powerful sovereign is no more in the fight of the supreme being than the meanest slave; and that as they are the organ of the' maker of all things, they are to be believed in prefer once to the masters of the world. The consequences of such a system threaten the total subversion of society, unless the ministers of religion are made dependent on the magistrate; and they will never be effectually so, unlefs'they hold their subsistence of him. This is the only way to establish a harmony between the oracles of heaves and the maxims of government. It is the businesses
J o0 K- of a prudent administration to bring this about-without'. disturbances or commotion still the court of Lisbon has attained this salutary end, all our project of reformation will be to no pur pose. The mischiefs of ecclesiastical government will till subsist, notwithstanding all endeavours to reform them. It mull be brought to depend upon the magistrate before the Portuguese who live in Brazil can dare to oppose its tyranny. It is even to be feared that the prejudices they have imbibed from a faulty and monastic education, may be too deeply rooted in their minds, to be ever eradicated. These improvements in know ledge seem to be reserved for the next generation. This revolution might be hastened by obliging the chief proprietors to send their children to Europe for education and by putting the public schools upon a better footing in Portugal.,ALL ideas are easily impressed upon tender organs. The foul, without experience as without reflection, readily admits truth and falsehood in matters of opinions and equally adopts what is conducive or prejudicial to the public welfare. Young people may be taught to value or depreciate their own reason; to make use of it, or to neglect it to consider it as their best guide, or to mistrust its powers. Fathers obstinately defend the absurdities they were taught in their infancy; their children will be as fond of the leading principles in which they have been brought up. They will bring home found notions or religion, morality, administration, commerce and agri culture. The mother country will confer places of trust on them alone. They will then exert the talents they have acquired, and the face of the colony will be quite changed. Writers who speak of her, will no longer lament the idleness, the ignorance, the blunders, the superstitions which have been the ground-work of her administration. History will no longer be the satire of this colony.,THE
T. TE fear of incensing Great Britain must not protract B o o;K there happy alterations one single moment. The mo IX. times. which, perhaps, have prevented them hitherto are but prejudices, which will be removed upon the slighted examination. There are numberless political errors, which, once adopted, become principles. Such is the prevailing notion at the court of Lisbon, that the state cannot exist or prosper, but by means of the English They forget that the Portuguese monarchy was formed without the help of other nations; that during the whole time of their quarrels with the Moors, they were supported by no foreign power; that their greatness had been increasing for three centuries successively, when they extended their dominion over Africa and both the Indies by their own strength. All there great political revolutions were performed by the Portuguese alone. Was it necessary then that this nation should discover a great treasure, and be a proprietor of rich mines, merely to suggest the idea of its being unable to to support itself ? Are the Portuguese to be compared to those upstarts, whose heads are turned by the embarrassment which their newly acquired riches occasion ?no nation ought to submit to be protected. If the people are wise, they will have forces relative to their situation; and will never have more enemies than they are able to withstand. Unless their ambition is un bounded, they have allies, who, for their own fake, will warmly support their interest. This general truth is peculiarly applicable to those nations that are possessed of mines. It is the interest of all other nations to keep well with them, and if there is occasion for it, they will all unite for their preservation. Let Portugal but hold the balance even between all the powers of Europe, and they will form an impenetrable barrier around her. England herself, though deprived of the preference the has too long enjoyed, will still support a nation whose independence is essential to the balance of power in,Europe.
B o O K Europe. All nations would quickly join in one com-nil mon cause, if Spain should ever be so mad for conquest,,as to attempt any thing against Portugal. Never would the jealous, restless, and quick sighted policy of our age sussex all the treasures of the other hemisphere to be dirt the same hands, or that one house should be so powerful in America as to threaten the liberties of Europe.,THIS security, however, should not induce the court of Lisbon to neglea the means of their own preservation as they did when they trusted to the British arms for their defence, or indolently rested on the supineness of their neighbours; when, destitute of land or sea forces, they were accounted as nothing in the political system, which is the greatest disgrace that can befal a nation. If they will regain the consequence they have lost, they must put themselves in such a posture as hot to be afraid of war, and even to be the aggressor, if their rights or their safety Should require it. It is not always an advantage to a nation to continue in peace, when all the rest are in arms. In the political as in the natural world, a great event will have very extensive effeis. The rise or fall of one empire will asses all the rest. Even those which are furthest removed from the feat of war, are oftentimes the victims of their-mb- deration or weakness. These maxims are applicable to - Portugal, particularly at this juncture, when the ex ample of her neighbours, the critical situation of-her haughty allies, the solicitations of the powers who are jealous of her friendship, all in short calls-upon her to rouze, and to exert herself. IF the Portuguese will not at length frequent the seas, where alone they can distinguish themselves, and whence they must derive their prosperity, if they do not lew their strength at the extremity of Europe, where nature has so - happily placed them, their fate is decided, the monarchy is at an end. They will fall again into the chains they had, - shaken
shaken off.,for a moment: as a lion that should fool . .Q o K afleep.at the door of his den after he had broken it open. - The, little .circulation there is still within, would but indicate those feeble signs of life, which are the symptoms of approaching death. The few trifling regulations they might make from time to time, respecting the finances, the police, commerce, and the marine, whether at home or for the colonies, would be only pal natives, which, by concealing their situation, would render it the more dangerously cannot be denied that Portugal has miffed the fairest opportunity that ever could offer, of resuming her former splendour. It is not from politics alone that all revolutions arise. , Some definitive phenomenon may change the face of an empire. The memorable earthquake. of the first of November 1755, which over threw the-capital of Portugal, ought to have given a new birth to the kingdom. The ruin of a proud city is. often the preservation of a whole state, as the opulence of one man may be the ruin of thousands. Piles of sone heaped upon one another might fall to pieces ; effects, chiefly belonging to foreigners, might be destroyed; idle, debauched and corrupt men might be buried under heaps of rubbish, without affecting the public welfare. The-earth, in a transient fit of rage, had only taken what it was able to restore; and the gulphs it opened under one city, were ready digged for the foundations of another. - A. Nw states a new people, might have been ex petted to rise out of those ruins. But as much as these great adn uncommon starts of nature quicken great minds, so much do they depress those which are enervated-by, a long habit of ignorance. and superstition. Government, which every where takes advantage of incredulity of the people, and which nothing can divert from the fettled purpose of extending the boundaries of authority became more encroaching at the very infant VOL. II. M m that
q o o K the nation grew more timorous. lien of hardened con-sciences oppressed those of a more tender cast; apt the " ara of this great phenomenon proved that of an in crease of slavery; a lamentable, but common effect of the catastrophes of nature, which generally lay men open to the artifices of the great, who are desirous to exert their power over them. It is on there occasions they find means to multiply as of arbitrary power; whether those who govern, do really believe that the people were born to obey them, cr whether they think that, by extending their own power, they increase the strength of the public. Those false politicians are not aware that with such principles, a state is like an over strained spring, that will break at last, and recoil against the hand that bends it. The present situation of the continent of South America, but too plainly proves the justness of this comparison: let us now proceed to shew the effect of a different contra in the American ifands.',END O F TrE SECOND Volumes
I N D E X,TO T E SEC C iD V L Ut ME.,B O t V. RADE of Denmark, Offered, Sweden, T Pruffiai.Spain, and Russia tb the EaftIrndies. Some important inquiries concerning the connections of Europe with the Indies. - Page r Antient revolutions in Denmark. - ibid. Denmark undertakes the trade of the Indies. 5 Changes the Danish trade has undergone in India. 7- State of thee Banish trade in the Indies. 1o Establishment of an India company at Offend. 13 Causes of the destruction of the company at,Offend. 16 General sketch of the antient government of,Sweden. - - I8 The Swedes cultivate the India trade. Basis on which it is founded. - 20 Present fate of Sweden-23 The king of Prussia forms an East-India com any at Embden. Character of that prince. Fate of his establishment. 32 VOL. II. a Setttie-
- - Page Settlement of the Spaniards in the Phiiippiii,islands. - - 35 Present hate of the Philippine islands. 38 What the Philippines might become in industrious hands. . 42 General notions of Tartary. 47 Dispute of the Ruffians and Chinese in Tartary. 51 The Ruffians obtain leave to send a caravan to China. 52 Projects of the Ruffian court to trade to the Indies through independent Tartary. 54 Intercourse between Russia and the Indies by the caspian tea. - . ; 5 State of the Ruffian empire, ad. the means to,make it flourish. - 58 Connections of the Europeans with China. State of that empire with respect to it's trade. 7r The Europeans buy tea at China. 76-the Europeans buy porcelain in China. Is The Europeans buy silk in China. 87 The Europeans buy varnished works, and paper - in China. 9- Sums laid out in purchases by the Europeans in China. Conjectures concerning the future state of the trade of Europe in China. - 99 Whether Europe should continue its trade with India ? o-An inquiry, whether it is necessary, that the europeans should have large establishments in India, in order to carry on the trade? lo,Whether
Page Whether Europe ought to lay open the trade to India, or carry it on by exclusive charters. i25,BOOK VI. Discovery of America. Conquest of Mexico; and settlements of the Spaniards in that part of the new world. - . 39 Parallel-of ancient and modern history. i ibid. Ancient revolutions of Spain. x41 Columbus forms the design of discovering America - '' tic Arrival of Columbus in the new world. 47 Customs of the people of Hayti, since known by,the :amie if Fi-fpalitila. ' '- 148 Cruelties exercised towards the Indians at Hispaniola - - Ice Cortez sets out for the conquer of Mexico. What happened to him off Tabasco. . 60 Cortez arrives at Mexico. His engagements with the-province of Tlafcaa. ' 63 Cortez advances towards Mexico; manners, re ligion,-'govednmenf, and riches of the empire at the arrival of the SPariiar's: ' 17 The Spaniards being matters of Mexico; extend its boundaries. . ' ' . Climate, soil, and population of Mexico. 187 Productions of-Mexico. - 1 7 The mines-of Mexico. r7 Taxes established in Mexico. 2f3 Connexions of Mexico with the rest of America, with the East Indies, and with Europe. 220,* Book
o K- icvii.,Page Conquest of Peru by the Spaniard. Changes that have happened in this empire since that change of government. 242 Expedition? that preceded tfe discovery of Per. ibid.' State of Peru when it was discovered. - 248 Civil wars of the Spaniards after their conquest of Peru. 266 Natural slate of Peru. 276 to what condition the Spaniards reduced the Peruvians. - 283-To what degree the Spaniards have multiplied.,in Peru. Where, and how, they have formed their ietemeintis. ' What species of c tivationn 'and what industry they introduced into the em ,f the mines'of Peru. - -' e28 Menial communication n of the different provinces - of Peru. 305 Conrifufiicatioh of tenir with europe, -. 316 General remarks on new,.renada, which was detached from Pera. - .326 Remarks on the country of Quito. 327 Remarks on Popayan and Chaco. 3 334 Remarks on. Santa Fe ' 335 Remarks on Carthage. :i -. 3.7 Remarks on the countries situated between the rivers Magdalena and the Orounoko. - 343,B K . . . -. Took
B O O K VIII.,Page Conquest of Chili and Paraguay by the Spaniards. Principles on which Spain manages her colo nies. - 348 Means by which the Spaniards made themselves,mailers of Chili. - id. Present State of the Spaniards at Chili. 35r Connections of Chili with the Indians, with Peru and with Paraguay. 353 Settlement of the Spaniards in Paraguay. 355 Present situation of the Spaniards in Paraguay. 367 'Trade of Paraguay. - 369 Paraguay owca its celebrity to the settlement the Jesuits have formed there. Remarks on there settlements. - 372 Invasions to which Spanifl America is exposed. Methods of preventing them. 388 Causes of the decay of Spain. - 400 Causes of the decays the Spanish colonies. 410 Means that Spain ought to employ to re-eRtablifh,itself. - - 418 Means which Spain ought to employ for the re establishment of its colonies, -. 427,BOOK IX. Settlement of the Portuguese in the Brazils. The wars they have sustained there. Produce and riches of that colony - 438 Discovery of the Brazils by the Portuguese. ibid.,Account
Page Account of the sirs colonists sent by Portugal to the Brazils. - 439 Character and cultoirs of the Brazilians. 443 Success of the Portuguese in the Brazils. - 451 Enterprizes of the French in the Brazils. 454 The Dutch fettle in the Brazils, and after having derived considerable advantages from their situation, are driven from it. 456 Settlement of the Portuguese on the river Plata. 477 Settlement of the Portuguese at St. Paul. - 482 Productions of Brazil. - 485 Discovery of the gold and diamond mines in Brazil. - 491 Measures taken by tir resort of Lisbon to secure the produce of the mines. 497 Means employed to revive agriculture in the Brazils, which was abandoned for the mines. 409 Monopolies established for the trade of Brazil. 503 Causes of the decay of Portugal and of its colo nies. 505 Means of restoring Portugal and its colonies. 51,BK1TA\ Bx I.,C,,'s
A philosophical and political history of the settlements and trade of the Europeans in the East and West Indies. Translated from the French by J. Justamond, M. A. .
A PHILOSOPHICAL AND POLITICAL H I S T R Y,OF THE SETTLEMENTS AND TRADE,OF THE E U R 0 P E A N S EUROPEANS,IN THE EAST AND WEST INDIES.,TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY J. JUSTAMOND, M. A.,VOLUME THE THIRD. London N: PRINTED FOR T. CADELL, IN THE STRAND.,UDCC.LXXVI,,A/
A PHILOSOPHICAL AND POLITICAL I{ I S T O R Y,OF THE SETTLEMENTS AND TRADE,OF THE E U R 0 P E A N S EUROPEANS,IN THE EAST AND WEST INDIES.,BOOK X. Settlement of the European nations in the great Archipelago of America, known by the name of the Antilles or Caribbee I/lands.,B Took T HAT part of North America, which extends from the 293 to the 316 degree of longitude, contains the most numerous, extensive and rich Archipelago the ocean has yet opened to the curiosity, the industry and avidity of the Europeans. 'She islands that compose it are known, since the discovery of the new world, by the name of the Caribbees. Those that lie nearest the East, have been called the Windward Islands; the others, the Leeward, on account of the winds blowing generally from the eastern point in those quarters. They form a continued chain vol. III. B one
B 0 0 Bone end of which seems to be attached to the continent, X.,near the gulph of Maracaybo, the other, to close the entrance of the gulph of Mexico. They may, perhaps, with some degree of probability be considered, as the tops of very high mountains formerly belonging to the con tient, which have been changed into islands by one re volution that has laid the flat country under water. Whether ALL the islands of the world seem to have been de the American islands tacked from the continent by subterraneous fires, or have ben earthquakes. detached from the The celebrated Atlantica, whose very name would one continent? thousand years ago have been buried in oblivion, had it not,been transmitted down to us by Plato, from the obscure tradition of Egyptian priests was, probably, a large tract of land situated between Africa and America. Se vernal circumstances render it probable that England was formerly a part of France: and Sicily has evidently been detached from Italy. The Cape de Verd islands, the Azores, Madeira, and the Canaries must have been part of the neighbouring continents, or of others that have been destroyed. The late observations of English navigators leave us scarce any room to doubt that all the islands of the South Sea, formerly composed nearly one whole continent. New Zealand, the largest of them, is full of mountains, on which may be perceived the marks of extinguished volcanos. Its inhabitants are neither beardless nor copper-coloured as those of America; and though they are separated fix hundred and twenty four leagues from each other, they speak the same language as the natives of the island of Otaheite, discovered by M. De Bougainville. INDISPUTABLE monuments evince that such changes have happened, of which the attentive naturalist every where discovers some traces still remaining. Shells of,cn-
every kind, corals, beds of oysters, sea-fish entire or B 0 0 K broken, regularly heaped up in every quarter of the globe, in places the molt distant from the ea, in the bowels and on the surfaces of mountains; the variable ness of the continent, subjea to all the changes of the ocean, by which it is constantly beaten, worn away and entirely altered: whilst at a distance, perhaps, on one side it loses immense tracts of land; on the other, discovers to us new countries, and long banks of sand surrounding those cities, that formerly were celebrated sea-ports: the horizontal and parallel position of the strata of the earth and of marine productions collected and heaped up alter lately in the same order, composed of the same materials, that are regularly cemented by the constant and successive exertion of the same cause : the correspondent similarity observable between such coasts as are separated by an arm of the ea ; on one side of which may be perceived salient angles opposite to re-entering angles on the other: on the right-hand beds of the same kind of sand, or similar petrifaction disposed on a level with similar strata extending to the left: the direction of mountains and rivers towards the ea as to their common origin: the formation of hills and allies, on which this immense fluid hath, as it were, stamped indelible marks of its un mutations: all these several circumstances attest, that the ocean has broken its natural limits, or perhaps, that these limits have never been insurmountable, and varying the face of the globe, according to the irregularity of its mo tions, hath alternately taken it from, and restored it to its inhabitants. Hence those successive though never uni versal deluges that have covered the face of the earth, but not rendered it instantaneously invisible to us: for the waters laing at the same time in the cavities and on the surface of the globe, cannot possibly increase the depths 2 of
B 0 0 K of their beds without diminishing their breadth; or over,. flow, on one side, without leaving dry land on the other; nor can we conceive any alteration in the whole mass that can possibly have concealed at once all the mountains and made the sea rise above them. What a sudden trans formation must have forced all the rocks and every solid particle of matter to the center of the earth, to draw out of its inmost recesses and channels all those fluids which animate it; and thus blending its several elements toge ther, produce a mats of waters and useless germina float ing in the air? Is it not enough that each hemisphere al ternately becomes a prey to the devastations of the ocean ? Such constantine's have doubtless so unconcealed from us the new world, and, perhaps, swallowed up that conti went, which, as is imagined, had been only separated from our'own. Whatever may be the secret causes of there particular revolutions, the general cause of which results from the known and universal laws of motion; their effets, how ever, will be always sensible to every man who has the resolution and sagacity to perceive them. They will be more particularly sensible in regard to the Caribbees if it can ever be proved that they undergo violent hocks whenever the volcanos of the Cordeliers throw out their inflammable matter, and all Peru is shaken. This Archipelago, as well as that of the East-indies, situated nearly in the same degree of latitude, seems to be pro duce by the same cause; namely, the motion of the sea from east to weft: a motion impressed by that which causes the earth's revolution from well to east: more ra pi at the equator, where the globe of the earth being mote elevated, revolves in a larger circle and in a more agitated zone: where the ocean seems, as it were willing to break through all the boundaries nature opposes to it,,and
and opening itself a free and uninterrupted course, forms B 0 0 K the equinoctial line. THE direction of the Caribbees, beginning from Tobago is nearly north and N. N. E. This direction is con tinged from one island to another, forming a line some what curved towards the north-east, and ends at Antigua. In this place the line becomes at once curved, and ex tending itself in a right line to the east and N. E. meets in its course with the islands of Porto-Rico, St. Domingo, and Cuba, known by the name of the Leeward Sands, separated from each other by rivers of various breadths. Thee in one are fix, in others fifteen or twenty lea goes broad; but the soundings in all of them are from a hundred to a hundred and twenty or a hundred and fifty fathom. Between Granada and Stringent's there is also a small Archipelago of thirty leagues, in which some times the soundings are not ten fathom. THE mountains in the Caribbees run in the same directions as the islands themselves. The direction is so regular that if we were to consider the tops of there mountains only independently of their bases, they might be looked upon as a chain of hills belonging to the continent, of which Martinico would be the most north easterly promontory. THE springs of water which flow from the mountains in the Windward Islands, run all in the western part of thee islands. The whole eastern coast, that is to say, the coast, which, according to our conjectures, has al ways been sea, is without any running water. No springs come down there from the mountains; they would, in deed, have been useless, for after having run over a very short tract of land, and with great rapidity, they would have fallen into the sea.,B 3 IN
BO 0 K IS Porto-Rico, St. Domingo, and Cuba, there are,, a few rivers which discharge themselves into the sea on,the northern side, and whose sources :ife in the mountains running from e: t wed, that is, through the whole lenzh of these islands. Th-fe rivers water a con miserable extent cf low country, which has certainly never been covered by the sea. From the other side of the mountains facing the south, where the sea, flowing with greater impetuosity, leaves behind it marks fits in nations, several rivers flow into there three islands, some of which are considerable enough to receive the largess ships.,Ti-ESE observations, which seem to prove that the ea has seperated the Cat ibbccs from the continent, are further confirmed by observations of a different kind, though equally conclusive in support cf this conjecture. Tobago, margaret, and Trinidad, islands that are the nearer to the continent, produce as well as the Caribbees, trees whose wood is soft, and wild cocoa. These particular species are not to be found, at least in any quantity, in the northern islands. In there, the only wood we meet with is hard. Cuba, situated at the other extremity of the Caribbees, abounds, like Florida, from which per laps it has been separated, with cedars and cypresses, equally useful for the built ing of chips. n ';cr of THE soil f the Caribbees co:f:is softly of a layer of the s:i c: ,' the Carib lay or 'gr2av, t ; di;rcnt thickness; under which is a b:t ifi:d;. .bed of one cr rock. Ie nrn^. .;c :.e of these oilskin better adapted 3 v.et:o-.'n ,.-.hcrs. In those places where tee c!.:- :c d:;-r a.l more friable, and mixes with the L 2;- a,:d-em.ins cf p!.nts, a layer of earth is fcr.md .if .: .:-cr d th, than where the clay r:.:^cr, "'.c .::,! cr * .::. ! has different proper-utica
ties according to its peculiar nature; wherever it is B 0 0 K less hard, less compact, and less porous, small pieces fe parade themselves from it; which though dry, preserve a certain degree of coolness, useful to vegetation. This soil is called in America, a pumice-shone soil. Where ever the clay and gravel do not go through such modifications the soil becomes barren, as soon as the layer formed by the decomposition of the original plant, is de fired; from the necessity there is of weeding it, which too frequently exposes its salts to the heat of the fun. Hence, in those cultures which require less weeding, and where the plant covers with its leaves the vegetable salts, there the fertility of the ground has been preserved. WHEN the Europeans landed at the Caribbees, they found them covered with large trees, connect as it were to one another by a species of creeping plant; which, rising up in the same manner as the ivy, wove it self around all the branches, and concealed them from the fight. There was o great a plenty of this plant, and it grew so thick, one could not penetrate into the woods before it was cut down. From its great degree of flexibility it was called Liane.,IN these forests, as old as the world itself, there were varieties of trees, that from a singular partiality of na ture, were very high, exceeding straight, and without any excrescences or defects. The annual fall and breaking down of the leaves, the decay of their trunks, rotted away by time, formed a moist sediment upon the ground; which being cleared, occasioned a surprizing degree of vegetation in those plants that supplied the place of the trees that were rooted up. IN whatever soil there trees grew, their roots were scarcely two feet deep, and generally much les : though they extended themselves on the surface, in proportions 4 to
B 0 0 K to the weight they were to support. The excessive dry,. ness of the ground, where the molt plentiful rains never penetrate very deep, as they are on attracted again by the sun-beams; and the constant dews that moisten the fur face, made the roots of these plants extend themselves horizontally, instead of descending perpendicularly, as they generally do in other climates. THE trees that grew on the tops of mountains and sleep places, were very hard. Their bark was smooth, and firmly fixed to the wood. The courbari, the acajou, the manchineel, the baryta, iron wood, and several others, hardly yielded to the harvest instrument: it was necessary to burn them, in order to sell and root them up. When they were on the ground, they were worked by the saw and the hatchet. The molt remarkable of these trees is the aroma; which, when put into the earth, becomes petrified The gum tree was esteemed the moRt useful, the trunk being five feet in circumference, and the flem from forty-five to fifty feet, served to make a canoe of one single piece the vallies, which are always rendered fertile by the mountains, abounded with soft wood. At the foot of there trees grew promiscuously thole plants that the li reality of the earth produced for the support of the na times of the country. The couch-couch, the yam ; the Caribbee cabbage and potatoes were most generally used. There were a species of potatoes produced at the root of such plants as creep along the ground, breaking through all those impediments which seemed to render their growth impossible. Nature, which seems to have formed a certain analogy between the characters of people and the provisions intended for their support, had provided the Caribbees with such vegetables as could not bear the heats
of the fun, flourished self in moist spots, required no cul B 0 0 K taxation, and were renewed two or three times in the. year. The islanders did not thwart the free and spontaneous operations of nature, by destroying one of her productions to give the greater vigour to another. The preparation of the vegetating salts, was entirely eft to the mere effect of nature; nor did they pretend to fix the place and time of her fertility. They gathered as chance threw in their way, or the season pointed out, such fruits as spontaneously offered themselves for their support. They had observed, that the putrefaction of the weeds was necessary to the reproduction of those plants that were most useful to them. THE roots of there plants were never unwholesome; but they were insipid when raw, and had very little fla your even when boiled, unless they were seasoned with pimento. When mixed with ginger, and the acid juice of a plant somewhat resembling our sorrel, they produced a strong liquor, which was the only compound drink of the savages. The only art they made use of in preparing it, was suffering it to ferment some days in common wa ter, exposed to the heat of the fun. ExCLUSIVE of the roots, the islands also supplied the inhabitants with a great variety of different fruits. Some of there were much the same as our apples, cherries, and apricots; but we have nothing in our climates that can give us any idea of most of the fruits of the Caribbees. Among these, the most useful was the banana. In have, size, and colour it resembled our cucumbers: its taste was somewhat similar to our pears: it grew in cool places, on a soft and spungy stem about seven feet high. This stem decayed as the fruit ripened; but before it sell, it scot forth a young sprig from its trunk, which a hereafter
B O 0 K after produced its fruit, perished in its turn, and was re-,v' generated successively in the same manner.,ONE singular circumstance worthy of remark is, that whilst the voracious plant, which we have termed Liane, climbed round all the barren trees, it was far removed from the fertile ones, though promiscuously blended with the former. Nature seemed as it were, to have prescribed to it, to respect what he had destined for the sustenance of man. THE islanders were not so plentifully supplied with pot herbs as with roots and fruits. Purloin and cresses were the only herbs of this kind they had. THEIR other food was confined within a very narrow compass: they had no tame fowl, and the only quad rupees that were eatable, did not amount to more than five forts; the largest of which did not exceed in size our common rabbits. The birds more pleasing to the eye, though less varied than in our climates, were valuable almost only on account of their feathers: few of them warbled forth those melting notes that are so captivating to the ear ; most of them were extremely thin, and very insipid to the talle. Fish was nearly as plentiful as in other seas, but generally less wholesome, and less de locate. THE plants that nature had placed in these islands, to cure the very few disorders the inhabitants were subject to, cannot be too highly commended. Whether they were applied externally, or taken internal', or the juice of them given in infusion, their effects were as speedy as salutary. The invaders of those formerly peaceable re lions, have employed these simples, which are always green, and always in full vigour, and preferred them to all the medicines that Alia can furnish to the relf of the world.,Tlis
THE generality of the inhabitants of there islands con B O O K finer but two seasons among them, that of drought and that of rain. Nature, whose operations are constant, Climate of and concealed under a perpetual verdure, appears to them th hands. to aa always uniformly. But those who attentively ob serve her progress, discern, that in the temperature of the climate, in all the revolutions, and in the changes of vegetation, she follows the same that as in Europe, though in a lets evident manner. THESE almost imperceptible changes, are no preservative against the dangers and inconveniences of such a scorching climate as must be naturally expected under the torrid zone. As these hands are all under the tropics, their inhabitants are exposed, allowing for the varieties resulting from difference of situation and of soil, to a perpetual heat, that generally increases from the rising of the fun till an hour after noon, and then decreases in proportion as the fun declines. The thermometer in these places hews, that the degree of heat rises some times to forty-four, and even to forty-seven and a half, above the freezing point. A covered sky, that might serve to alleviate this heat, is seldom seen. Sometimes, indeed, clouds appear for an hour or two, but the fun is never hid for four days together during the whole year. THE variations in the temperature of the air, depend rather upon the wind, than the changes of seasons. In those places where the wind does not blow, the air is excessively hot, and none but the easterly winds contribute to temperate and refresh it: thole that blow from the south and weft afford little relief; but they are much less frequent, and less regular than that which comes from the east. The branches of the trees exposed to its influence, are turned round towards the vest, in that,diiedion
B Took direction which they seem to be thrown into, by the constants' and uniformcourfeof the wind. But theirrootsare stronger and more extended under ground towards the east, in or der to afford them, as it were, a fixed point, whose re finance may counteract the power of the ruling wind. It has been also observed, that whenever the westerly wind blows pretty strong, the trees are easily thrown down; in order therefore to judge of the violence of a hurricane, the number of trees, as well as the direction in which they fall, is equally to be considered. THE easterly wind depends upon two invariable causes, the probability of which is very striking. The first arises from the diurnal motion of the earth from weft to east, and which mute necessarily be more rapid under the equinoctial than under the parallels of latitude, because a greater space must be passed over in the same time. The second is owing to the heat of the fun, which as on as it rises above the horizon, rarefies the air, and causes it to blow towards the weft, in proportion as the earth revolves towards the east. THE easterly wind, therefore, which at the Caribbees is scarcely felt before nine or ten o'clock in the morning, increases in proportion as the fun rises above the horizon; and decreases as it declines. Towards the evening it ceases entirely to blow on the coasts, but not on the open sea. The reasons of this difference are very evident. After the setting of the fun, the air from the land, that continues for a considerable time rarefied, on account of the vapours which are constantly rising from the heated globe, necessarily sows back upon the air of the ea : this is what is generally called a land breeze. It is most sensibly felt in the night, and continues till the air of the sea, rarefied by the heat of the fun, flows back again towards the land, where the air has been condensed by the coolness of the night. It has also been observed,,that
that the easterly wind blows more regularly and with B 0 0 K greater force in the dog-days than at any other times of, the year; because the fun then as more powerfully on the air. Thus nature causes the excessive heat of the fun to contribute to the refreshment of those climates that are parched up by its rays. It is thus that in fire engines art makes the fire instrumental in supplying con flatly with fresh water the copper vessels from which it is exhausted by evaporation. THE rain contributes also to the temperature of the American islands, though not equally in them all. In those places where the easterly wind meets with nothing to oppose its progress, it dispels the clouds as they begin to rise, and causes them to break either in the woods or upon the mountains. But whenever the storms are too violent, or the blowing of the easterly wind is interrupt ed by the changeable and temporary effet of the southern and westerly ones, it then begins to rain. In the other Caribbee islands, where this wind does not gene rally blow, the rains are so frequent and plentiful, especially in the winter season, which lasts from the middle of July to the middle of Oaober that, according to the most accurate observations, as much water falls in one week, during this time, as in our climates in the space of a year. Instead of those mild and refreshing lowers which we sometimes enjoy in Europe, the rains in these climates are torrents, the found of which might be mistaken for that of hail, if this were not almost un known under so burning a sky. THESE showers, it must be allowed, refresh the air; but they occasion a dampness, the seas of which are no less disagreeable than fatal. The dead muff be interred within a few hours after they have expired. Meat will not keep sweet above four and twenty hours. The fruits,decay,
BOOKdecay, whether they are gathered ripe, or before their x. , .maturity. The bread muff be made up in biscuits, to,prevent its growing mouldy. Common wines on turn four; and iron grows rusty in the space of a day. The feeds can only be preserved by constant attention and care, till the proper season returns for sowing them. When the Caribbees were first discovered, the corn that was con vexed there for the support of those who could not ac custom themselves to the food of the natives of the country was so on damaged, that it became necessary to send it in the ears. This necessary precaution enhanced the price of it so much that few people were able to buy it. Flour was then substituted in lieu of corn, which lowered, indeed, the expences of transport, but was attended with this inconvenience, that it was sooner damaged. A merchant conceived, that if the flour were entirely separated from the bran, which contributes to its fermentation, it would have this double advantage, of cheapness and of keeping longer. He caused it, there fore, to be sifted, and put the finest flour into firing casks, and beat it close together with iron hammers, till it became so hard a body, that the air could scarcely penetrate it. Experience justified so sensible a contrivance, the practice of it has become general, and been confide rally improved ever since. If this method does not pre fern the flour, as long as in our dry or temperate climates it may, however, be kept by it, for the space of fix months, a year, or even longer, according to the de gree of care that has been taken in the preparation. Such an interval is sufficient for an give and industrious mo ther country to supply its colonies. Extraordi HOWEVER troublesome these natural effects of the rain nor[nai may be, it is attended )et with some more formidable: til facts. such as frequent and sometimes dreadful earthquakes in the,islands,
islands. As they generally happen during the time, orB 0 OK towards the end of the rainy season, and when the tides are highest, ingenious naturalists have, therefore, sup posed that they might be owing to these two causes. THE waters of the sky and of the sea, undermine, dig up, and ravage the earth in several ways. The ocean, in particular, exerts its fury upon this globe with a violence that can neither be foreseen nor prevented. Among the various stocks to which it is constantly ex posed, from this restless and boisterous element, there is one, which at the Caribbees is distinguished by the name of raz de marie, or whirlpool. It constantly happens once, twice, or three times, from July to Otober, and always on the western or southern coasts; because it takes place after the time of the westerly and southerly winds, or whilst they blow. The waves which at a di fIance seem to advance gently within four or five hundred yards, suddenly swell against the (lore, as if acted upon in an oblique direction by some superior force, and break with the greatest impetuosity. The ships, which arc then upon the coast, or, in the vicinity, unable either to put to sea, or keep their anchors, are dashed to pieces against the land, leaving the unhappy sailors entirely without hopes of escaping that certain death, the ap preaches of which they have been expecting for several hours.,So extraordinary a motion of the sea has been hitherto considered as the consequence of a tempest. But a tempest follows the direction of the wind from one point of the compass to another; and whirlpools are felt in one part of an island that is Weltered by another, where the shock is not at all perceived. This observation has in duce Mr. Dutafta, who has travelled through Africa and America, as a natural philosopher, a merchant, antea states
0 0 is a freeman, to seek for a more probable cause of this,, singular phenomenon. He has not only discovered this point, but also several other truths that may be useful to many of the sciences, if he ever makes them public. We shall then probably acquire more certain information re Itching hurricanes. THE hurricane is a violent wind generally accompanied with rain, lightning and thunder, sometimes with earthquakes; and is always attended with the most me melancholy and fatal consequences that the wind can pro duce. The day, which, in the torrid Zone, is usually bright and clear, is suddenly changed into a dark and universal night; the appearance of a perpetual spring into the dreariness and horror of the most gloomy winter. Trees as ancient as the world itself are torn up by the roots, and instantly disappear. The strongest and moss solid buildings are in a moment buried in ruins. Where the eye delighted itself with the prosper of rich and ver cant hills, nothing is to be seen but plantations entirely destroyed, and frightful caverns. The unhappy sufferers deprived of their whole support, weep over the carcases of the dead, or search among the ruins for their friends and relations. The noise of the waters, of the woods, of the thunder and of the winds, that break against the shattered rocks; the cries and howling of men and ani mass, promiscuously involved in a whirlwind of sand, stones, and ruins of buildings: all together seem to portend the last struggles of expiring nature. THESE hurricanes, however, contribute to produce more plentiful crops, and to ripen the fruits of the earth. Whether there violent concussions tear up the ground, in order to render it more fertile, or whether the hurricane brings along with it certain substances fit to promote the vegetation of plants, is not easily determined: but it has,been
been observed, that this seeming and temporary confusion B 0 0 K wv;s not on!v a consequence ois t' e uniformity of nature, J which makes even dissolution itself instrumental to re generation, bet also the means of preserving the general fyltetl, the life and vigour of which is maintained by an internal fermentation, of partial evil and of general good. THE fi-fi inhabitants of the Caribbees imagined that they had discovered infallible prognostic of this alarming phenomenon. They observed, that when it was nearat hand, the air w-as misty, the fun red, and yet the weather calm, and the tops of the mountains clear. Under the earth and in the reservoirs of water, a dull found was heard, like that arising from pent p winds. The stars were clouded by a vapour, that made them appear larger. The sky, in the north-cast, was overspread with dark and black clouds, that seemed ely alarming. The (ea sent forth a firing and disagreeable shell, and in the midst of a calm, vias suddenly agitated. T he wind changed in a moment from east to well, and blew very violently at different intervals, each of which continued for two hours together. THOUGH the truth of all these observations cannot be ascertained, yet to pay no attention to the ideas and even prejudices of savage nations on times and seasons would be a seeming indication of imprudence, or of a mind too little addicted to philosophical inquiries. The want of employment of these people, and their being habituated to live in open air, afford them an opportunity and put them under a necessity of observing the finallefi alterations in the air, and of acquiring such informations on :his point, as hac e escaped the more enlightened nations, which arc more employ ed and more devoted to works of a sedentary nature. Possibly we must be indebted to VOL. III. C savage
B O oK savages for the discovery of effects, and to learned people for the investigation of causes. Let us trace out, if possible the cause of hurricanes, a phenomenon so frequent in America, that this alone would have been sufficient to make it be deserted, or render it uninhabitable many years ago. No hurricanes come from the cst, that is from the greatest extent ,f the sea at the Caribbees. As this is an acknowledged fact, it would induce us to believe, that they are formed on the continent of America. The weft wind which bo.vs cofiantiy, and sometimes very violent in the southern parts, from July to January, and the north wind blowing at the same in the northern parts, nut, when they meet, oppose each other with a force proportionate to their natural velocity. If this shock happens in the long and narrow passes of the mountains, it mull occasion a strong current of air, that will extend itself in a compound ratio of the moving power, and the diameter of the narrow pals of the mountain. Every so lid body that meets this current of air, will be impressed with a degree of force proportioned to the extent of fur face it opposes to the current; so that if the position of that surface should be perpendicular to the direction of the hurricane, it is impossible to determine what effect might be produced upon the whole mass. Fortunately the different bearings of the coasts of there islands, and their angular or spherical figure, occasion these dreadful hurricanes to .ll upon surfaces more or less oblique, which divert the current of air, break its force, and grad ley destroy its kisses. Experience also proves, that their atom is b degrees so much weakened, that even in the dweiJn, w-hre the hurricane falls with molt force, it is scarcely felt at ten leagues trance. The moil accurate obfereise have remarked, that all the hurricanes,which
which have successively subverted the islands, came from B O O K,X. the north-east, and consequently from the narrow passes formed by the mountains of St. Martha. The distance of some islands from this direction, is not a sufficient rea - bon for rejecting this opinion ; as several her causes may contribute to divert a current of air to the south or east. We cannot help thinking therefore, that those persons have been mistaken, who have a-rted,that the violence of a hurricane was felt under whatever point ofthe compass the wind came from. Such are the destructive phenomena nature has opposed to the acquisition of the riches of the new world : but what barrier could restrain the daring spirit of that navigator who discovered it ? CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS having first formed a fettle Cuifomsof,the Carib met at t St. Domingo, one of the greater Antilles, disco be., the vexed the l-fner. Ille islanders he had to encoun- 'cent in-habitants ter here, were not so weak and cowardly as those he of the had at first subdued. 1 he Caribbees, who thought vidvard,islands. they originally came from Guiana, and of the same nation as the Galilee, were of moderate sature, thick set, and firoig, and such as fcircd adapted to form men of filpericr strength, if their manner of life and exercises had been favourable to the natural appearances. Their legs thick and muscular, were generally well-made; their eyes black, large, and I somewhat prominent. Their whole figure would hive been pleasing, had they not spoiled their natural beauty by fancied and artificial orna ments, which could only be agreeable to the peculiar taste that prevailed among them. The ee-brows and the head re the only parts of the body on whi h they us served any hair to grow. T'hey wore no garment, nor had this any influence on their chastity. In o'er to guard against tl-e brie of infcQls, they painted all theirs 2 bodies
B 0 0 K bodies over with the juice of the rocou, or ariosto, which gave them the appearance of a boiled lobster. Thevvir religion confided only in some confused belief of a good and bad principle; an opinion o natural to man, that we find it diffused among the most savage na tions, and preferred even among many civilized ones. Thevv were little concerned about the tutelary divinity, but had the greatest dread of the evil principle. Thevvir other superstitions were more absurd than dangerous, and they were but little attached to them. This indifference did not contribute to render them more ready to embrace christianity when proposed to them. Without entering into dispute with tone who expounded the doctrines, they contented themselves with rejecting the belief of them, far fear, as they sid, that their neighbours fi7Jutld laugh at them. THOUGH the Caribbees had no regular form of govern ment among them, yet they lived quietly and peaceably with one another. Thevv tranquility they enjoyed, was entirely owing to that innate principle of compassion, which goes before all kind of reflection, and is the source of social virtues. This kind spirit of benevolence arises from the very frame and nature of man, whose self-love alone is sufficient to make him abhor the sufferings of his fellow-creatures. To infuse, therefore, a spirit of humanity into the minds of tyrants, it would only be necessary to make them the executioners of those viims they sacrifice to their pride, and of those cruelties they order to be practised upon others. Thevv hands of th fe voluptuaries hould be obliged to mutilate the eu n;;chs of their seraglios; they should be forced to attend the wild of bottle; they should there behold the bleed ill wounds, hear the imprecations, and he witnesses of the agonies and convulsions of their dying soldiers; they,should
should next attend the hospitals, and at leisure contemn 0 0 K plate the wounds, the fractures, the diseases occasioned X by famine, labours equally dangerous and unwholesome, by cruel services and taxes, and the other calamities which arise from the vices and profligacy of their man news. How greatly would scenes like these, occasionally introduced in the education of princes, contribute to lessen the crimes and sufferings of the human race What benefits would not the people derive, from the compassionate emotions of their sovereigns ? AMONG the Caribbees, whose hearts were not spoiled by the pernicious inflitutions that corrupt us, neither adultery, treason, perjury, nor massacre, so common among civilized nations, were known. Religion, the laws, and penal punishments, those barriers, raised to protect old customs from the encroachments of new ones, were useless to men who followed nature alone. Theft was never heard of among these savages, before the Euro means came amongst them. When they discovered any thing muffling, they observed, that the Christians had been with them. THESE islanders were little acquainted with the strongest passions of the foul, not even with that of i].ve. This passion was with them merely a sensual appetite. They never shewed the least marks of attention or tenderness for that sex, so much courted in other countries. They con filtered their wives rather in the light of slaves than of companions; they did not even sussex them to eat with them, and had usurped the right of divorcing them, without permitting them the indulgence of marrying again. The women felt themselves born to obey, and submitted patiently to their fate. IN other respect, a taste for power had little influence on the minds of the Caribbees; as they had no distinctions 3 of
B 0 0 K ranks among them, they were all on a footing of equality, 4^ , and were eirmr.y surprized t find degrees of fubor-,dmr.tin among the Europeans. This stem was so re pugnalnt to their ideas, that t considered those as slaves, who had the w-cainef to receive the commands of a superior, and obey them. -1 he subjection of the women among them, was a n-tural consequence of the v:eakncfs of the sex. But in what manner, and for what reatbn, the stranger men submitted themselves to the weaker; and how one man commanded the whole body, was a problem, that neither w.,r, treachery, nor super station, had been able to resolve. THE manners of a peo;-le, neither influenced by in. benefit, vanity, or amb!r.on, mull be very simple. Every family formed within iieif a republic, distinct in some de gree from the rlt of the ilion. They consoled a ham Set, called arts', cf erce;.r or ifs consequence in pro portion to :he 1I Lc of ground t occupied. 'She chief, or patriarch ': the fill', li-ve in the ctener, with his vi'.'es d sot.rzer children Around him were placed the .-s of :uca of his dl:rescendlats as ere married. The coCu'i;.s t'.-I ::potd thes its, wcie spike ; the roofs th-;cnicd, and the v hlc scripture confined of fume arms, cotton beds nm.de very p!.iin and finale, some baskets, and utrcn.i m.dc o caiSlbahcs.,Ix .'les- huts tie C ribbed rent the greatest part of thei , tir lii, ih e or ie r r.oing. when they v-cnt ur, .e' retires i:;r) l,;ne cLi ncr, and lat upon the-goe:: J, crushing' abltLrbci;d i tic im si profound contemn-'a;.r, x Whenever tie. ip'kc, whi.i silas not very of ten, t.;icv ,ere heard w. out interruption, or contradiction as,d wv-ithoit any nar.wcr, but the sign of a tacit ap. prc'ca:ton.,As
As they ate little, they were not much troubled in pro B0 0 K riding for their sustenance. Men who live in woods, X. consume less than those who dwell in open countries. The air isidore condensed, and it is probable that vegetables by their transpiration, exhale more nutritive par titles. The temperance, therefore, of the Caribbees, which at first was considered as a consequence of their in silence, might possibly be ascribed, in some degree, to that air they breathed from the transpiration of vegetables among the woods, with which their islands were co vexed. IN the midst of these woods, this indolent people, without being compelled to the labours of cultivation, found constantly a wholesome food, fitted to their con situation; and which required no care, or at least very little, to prepare it. If they Ibinetiihes added to these gifts of kind and simple nature, what they had taken in hunting and fishing, it was seldom but upon occasion of some public scan. THESE extraordinary festivals were hld at no slated times. The guests themselves shewed no altciaelon in their usual characters. In these meetings they weir not at all more gay or sprightly, than at her times. A spirit of indolence and listlessness a:ppe.lcd in their countenances Their dances were si grave and folerrn, that the motions of their bodies were cxprcdllve i f the dulness of their fouls. But there gloomy festivals, like thu, clouded lies that are the for-runners sofa tenses, were seldom concluded without bioodtlsed. Shell savages, who were so temperate when alone, grew run when assembled in companies, and their intoxication excited and revived those family dissensions that were either only folded, or not entirely extinguished: and ths these sei; vais terminated in malice. Hatred and,C 4 rcrcige,
B 00 K revenge, the only passions that could deeply agitate the minds of these savages were perpetuated, by these con vivian pleasures. In the height of these entertainments, parents and relations embraced one another, and swore that they would wage war upon the continent. THE Caribbees embarked upon boats, made of a single tree, that had been felled by burning its roots. Whole years had been taken up in hollowing these canoes, by hatchets made of one, or by the means of fire skilfully applied within the trunk of the tree, in order to bring it to the most convenient form. When these free and voluntary warriors arrive on the coasts of Guiana, they go in quest of the Araucos, who formerly drove them ot from thence. At their return from this military expedition which is the mere speedily brought to a conclusion, as mutual enmity renders it more cruel and spirited, the savages sell again into their former state of indolence and inLcai ity.,THE Spaniards, notriilanding the advantage of fire arms, did not continue long at war with this people, nor were they always success-ful. At first they fought only for gold, ad afterwards for slaves: but not meeting with any mines, and the Caribbees being o proud and sullen, that they died when mae fives: the Spaniards gave up all thoughts of making conqicfis, that they thought of lite consequence, nd ha t they could neither acquire nor preserve without: const nt and bloody wars. Site Eag- THE English and Frenchmen apprized of these transit a archons, ventured to equip a flail fleet, in order to in French - lethe on accept the Spanih kvcl-Tels which frequented there latitude wind tides. The advantages gained, increased the number of x-ard ifaads,and pirates. Peace, which f-equcn:!y took place in Europe, drlr' thetis not prevent this. c e:;iric;:s. Ths custom that pre-,vailce
wailed among the Spaniards, of flopping all hips that B 0 0 K failed beyond the tropic, justified such piracies. THE two nations had long been acquainted with the Windward islands, without ever thinking of making any settlement there, or having been able to fix upon the mode of doing it. They were, perhaps, apprehensive of irritating the Caribbees, by hom they had been fa favourably received : or, perhaps, they considered, that a soil which afforded none of those productions that were of use in the old world, was unworthy of their attention. At length, however, some English and French, the for mer headed by Warner, the latter by Defnambuc, landed at St. Christopher's on the same day, at two opposite parts of the sand. The frequent losses they sustained, served to convince them both, that they certainly would never triumph over, and enrich themselves with the spoils of the common enemy, unless they had some fixed residence ports, and a place f general rendezvous. As they had no notion of commerce, agriculture, or con quest, they amicably divided the coats of the island, where they accidentally met together. The natives of the country retired from the spot they were fixed upon, telling them at the same time, that land mu/i either be very bad, or very sCarce with them, since they were come si omn ]9 great a dflalnce, and had exod e motives ta so ;any daggers to fee for it among tiem.,THE court of Madrid were not so peaceably inclined. Frederic of Toledo, who was sent to Brasil in the year 1630, with a powerful fleet, to attack the Dutch, was ordered in his passage to destroy the pirates, who, ac cording to the prejudices of that nation, had invaded one of their territories. The vicinity of two active and industrious nations, occasioned the greatest anxiety to the Spaniards. They were sensible that their colonies would,be
B 0 0 K be exposed to attacks, if any other people hould come to -. fettle in that part of America.,THE French and English in vain united their weak powers against the common enemy: they were beaten, and those who were not either killed in the action, or not taken prisoners, fled for shelter with the utmost pre citation into the neighbouring islands. When the dan ger was over, they molt of them returned to their former settlements. Sain, whose attention was engrossed by objects she considered as of greater importance, disturbed them no more; taking it fur granted, perhaps, that their mutual jealousies would occasion their destruction.,UFORTUNATELY for the Caribbees, the two nations, thus conquered, suspended their riva!flhip. The Carib bees, already fufWpeccd of forming a conspiracy in St. Christopher's, were either banished or destroyed. Their wives, their provisions, and even the land they occupied, were seized upon. A spirit of restlessness, the consequence of usurpation, inclined the Europeans to believe, that the other savage nations had entered into the con piracy; and they were therefore attacked in their islands. In vain did those plain and inoffensive men, who had no inclination to contend for the possession of a- land which they considered not as their property, remove the boundaries of their habitations,, in proportion as we advanced with our encroachments ; they v.-ere .till pursued with the large eagerness and obstinacy. As on as they perceived that their lives or liberties were in danger, they at length took up arms; and the spirit of revenge, which always goes beyond the injury, nul hate sometimes contributed tD render them cruel, though not unjust. IN the earlier times, the En2;fliand the French con filtered the Caribbees as their common enemy; but this kind of cfuai association-cs frequently interrupted. It,implie1
implied not a lasting engagement, much less the becoming B 00 K guarantee for their mutual possession. The savages art fully contrived to be at peace sometimes with one nation, and sometimes with the other; and thus they gained the advantage of having only one enemy at a time. This ma engagement would have been but of little avail to these islanders, had not Europe, 'care paying any attention to a few adventurers, whose excursions had as yet been of no use to her, and not sufficiently enlightened to penetrate into futurity, neglected both the care of governing them, as well as that of putting them in a condition to extend or recover the advantages they had already ac quire. The indifference he,.vn by the two mother countries to there particulars, determined their subjects of the new world, in the month of January 1660, to en ter into an alliance, securing to each people those possessions the various events of war had procured them, ad which till then had been totally unsettled. This alliance was accompanied with an o'c five and defensive league, to compel the natives of t!:e country to join in this plan, to which their fears induced them to acLde the very same year. BY ths, treaty, that efaialifl:cd tranquility in this part of America, France hjb;zned Guadeloupe, Miartinico, Granada, and some other left considerable acquisitions. England was confirmed in the poseidon of li.tbadocs, Nevis, Antigua, Montserrat, and several other ifi.tnd of little value: St. .ioritiophldi's belon ed to both nations. 'The Caribbees were confined to !)oniilica and st. Vin cent's; where all the tattered body of this people united, and did not at that time exceed in number ooo men. AT this period the English settlements had acquired, The under a government, which, though not tree sion defect, Fi-epic set was yet tolerable, orme kind of form, and were in a e 'itt slot ri omi i o . flourishing
B 0 0 K flourishing state. On the contrary, the French colonies were abandoned by a great number of their inhabitants, reduced to the deepest despair, from the necessity they were under of submitting to the tyranny of exclusive privileges These men, passionately attached to liberty, fled to the northern coast of St. Domingo, a place of refuge for adventurers of their own country, since they had been driven out of St. Christopher's, about thirty years ago they were called Buccaneers, because they imitated the custom of the savages, in drain the food they lived upon b smoke, in places called Buchan. As they had no wives, nor children, they usually associated two in company, to assails one another in family duties. In these societies property was common, and the last fur ivory inherited all that remained. Theft was unknown among them, though no precautions were taken against it; and what was wanting at home was freely taken from same of the neighbours, without any other restriction than that of a previous intimation, if they were at home, if not, of making them acquainted with it at their re turn. Differences seldom happened, and when they did, were easily adjured. If the parties, however, were ob ultimate, they decided the matter by fire arms. If the hall entered at the back or the sides, it was considered as a mark of treachery, and the assassin was immediately put to death. The ancient laws of the country were disregarded, anti by the usual sea baptism they had re civet, in pasn2 the Tropic, they considered them flies exempted from all obligation to obey them. They had even sunk their family name to anime others, borrowed from terms of war, mol of which have been transmitted to their pofierity.,THE
THE dress of there barbarians confined of a shirt dip B 0 0 K,X. pet in the blood of the animals, they killed in hunting;, ' a pair of drawers, dirtier than the hurt, and made in the have of a brewer's apron, a girdle made of lea ther, on which a very short fabre was hung and some knives; a hat, without any rim, except a flap before, il order to take hold of it; and shoes without stockings. Their ambition was ratified, if they could but provide themselves with a gun that carried balls of an ounce weight, and with a pack of about five and twenty or thirty dogs. THE whole employment of the Buccaneers confined in hunting the wild bulls, of which there were great num boers in the island, once the Spaniards had brought them. As soon as they were kissed they were immediately skinned and the pursuit was never ended, till they had knocked down as many bulls as there were huntsmen in company. Some pieces of the fiefs were then prepared and sealed only with Jamaica pepper and juice of orange. They ate no bread, and drank only water. This was their constant and daily employment, and was carried on till they had provided themselves with a sufficient number of skins to supply the vedels of the several nations that traded in thole seas. These were then sent to sale in some frequented road; and carried thither by men who were called engages, or bondsmen ; a set of persons who were used to sell themselves in Europe to serve as slaves in the colonies, during the term of three years. One of these wretches, presuming to represent to his matter, who always fixed upon a Sunday for this voyage, that God had forbidden such a practice, when he had declared, fix toys jfl7lt toi labour, and on the ftevnt, day shalt thou real: And I, replied the brutal Buccaneer, I say to thee: fix days th soufA;lt kill ills and Ji-rip them o1 tenir Skins, and on tc fev-cn; day tcu shall ca ry their hides,to
B Sto the fiacre. This command was followed by blows,, which sometimes enforce obedience, sometimes disobedience to the laws of God. MEN of such a cast, habituated to constant exercises, and feeding every day on fresh meat, were little exposed to diseases. Their excursions were only suspended by a flight fever, which lated one day, and was not felt the next. They mus, however, have been weakened by length of time, under a climate of too intense a heat, to enable them to support so hard and laborious a manner of life. THE climate, indeed, was the only enemy the Buccaneers had reason to far. The Spanish colony, at first so considerable, was reduced to nothing. NegleCted and forgotten by the mother country, it had even lost the re membrane of its former greatness. The few inhabitants that survived, lived in a fare of indolence: their flares had nothing to do but to swing them in their ham mocks. Confined to those .wants only that are satisfied by nature, frugality prolonged their lives to an old age, rarely to be met vw:h in more temperate climates. IT is probable they would not have been rouzed from their indolence, had not the enterprizing and active spirit of their enemies pursued them in proportion as they re treated. Exasperated at length, from having their tranquillity and ease continually disturbed, they invited from the continent and from the neighbouring islands force troops who sell upon the dispersed Buccaneers. They unexpectedly attacked there barbarians in sall parties in their excursions, or in the night-time, when retired into their huts, and many of them were massacred. These adventurers would most probably have been all destroyed, had they not formed themselves into a body for their mutual defence. They were urt'r an absolute necefflty,of
of separating themselves in the day time, but met toge B O O K ther in the evening. If any one of them was missing, it x* was supposed that he was either taken prisoner or killed, and the chace was delayed, till he was either found, or his death revenged. We may easily conceive how much blood must have been bed by such ruffians, belonging to no country, and subject to no laws; hunters and war riots from the calls of nature and instinct; an. excited to murder and massacres from being habituated to attack, and from the necessity of defending themselves. In the height of their fury, they devoted every thing to de. firuclion, without any distinction of lex or age. The Spaniards, at length, despairing of being able to get the better of such savage and obstinate enemies, took the resolution of destroying all the bulls of the islands, by a general chace. The execution of this design having de privet the Buccaneers of their usual resources, put them under the incest)' of making feL!cnments and cultivating the land. France, who till that time, had disclaimed for her sub sects these ruffians, whole successes were only temporary, acknowledged them, however, as soon as they formed themselves into settlements. In 1665, she font them over an honest and sensible man to govern them. He took with him several women, who, like most of those who have at different periods been went into the new world, were noted for their vices and licentiousness. The Buccaneers were not offended at the profligacy of their manners. I do not oefr e you to give men an acount of your paul' cndirl, was the speech each of them made to the woman that chance had allotted him. Eu did nt tien lely: to e. Give n:. our w;r,!, fr tressure, as yu tre .r ir.ow i ; I ' a :t of cr /.t is pas. Their, tricking his hand on the barrel o his gn, he added:,T/-si
B 0 0 IC ih;s veil revenge e cf your breach of faith; if ycu art,fay:~, Sash wi ii certain be true t m)y aim. The Eng- The English had not waited till their rivals had ob 1bl con quer Stained a fire settlement in the great Antilles to procure mica. themselves an establishment there. The declining states the kingdom of Spain, weakened by its internal divi sons, by the revolt of Catalonia and Portugal, by the com motion of Naples, by the destruction of its formi table infantry in the plains of Rocroy, by its continual losses in the Netherlands, by the incapacity of its mi sisters, and even by the extinction of that national pride, which, after having been kept up and maintained by fixing itself on great objects, had degenerated into an indolent haughtiness: all there circumstances, tending to the ruin of the Spanish monarchy, left no room to doubt that war might be successfully waged against her. France skilfully took the advantage of these confusions the had partly occasioned, and Cromwel, in the year 1655, joined her, in order to snare in the spoil of a king dom hastening to destruction in every part. THIS conduce of the protector caused a revolt among the best English officers, who, considering it as an in stance of great injustice, determined to quit the service. They thought that the will of their superiors could not give sanction to an enterprize, which violated all the principles of equity, and that by concurring to put it into execution, they would be guilty of the greatest crime. The rest of the Europeans looked upon there principles of virtue and honour as the effect of that re publican and fanatical spirit, which then prevailed in England; but they attacked the protector with other motives spain' had long threatened to enSlave all other nations. Perhaps, the multitude, w.o are little able to estimate,the
the strength of princes, to weigh the variations in the OO K,x. balance of power, were not yet recovered from their an cent prejudices. An universal panic had seized on the minds of those able men who attentively studied the gene rat progress of affairs. They were sensible that if the rapid and extraordinary successes of France were not checked by some foreign power, he would entirely spoil the Spa niards, impose on them what laws (he pleased, compel them to the marriage of the Infanta with Lewis the 4th, secure to herself the inheritance of Charles the 5th, and oppress the liberty of Europe, that (he had formerly pro teased. Cromwell, who had lately subverted the govern ment of his country, seemed a fit person to give a check to the power of kings: but he was lo ked upon as the weaker of politicians, when he was observed to form connections which his own private interests, those of his country, as well as those of Europe in general, ought absolutely to have prevented him from entering into. THESE obServations could not possibly escape the deep and penetrating genius of the usurper. But, perhaps, he was desirous of preserving the idea the nation already entertained of his abilities, by some signal and advantageous conquest. If he had declared himself on the side of Spain, the execution of his prose muff have been chimerical; as the most he could possibly expect was to restore the balance of power between the two contending parties. He imagined t more favourable to his designs to begin by forming a connexion with France, and as towards to attack her, when he had made himself master of those oflefllons that were the objets of his ambition. Whatever truth there may be in there conjectures, which, however, may be supported from the evidence of history, and are, at Cast, consistent with the character of the extraordinary politician, who is supposed to have adopted VOL. III, D such
B 0 0 K such a method of reasoning; the English went into the X.,, new world to attack an enemy they had suit brought up-son themselves. THEIR sirs attempts were directed against the town of St.Domingo, whole inhabitants retired into the woods for (helter, as soon as they saw a large fleet of ships commanded by Penn, and nine thousand land forces headed b Venabics, appear before the city. But the errors they perceived their enemies fall into, inspiring these fugitives with fresh courage, they returned, and com pellet the enemy to rcimbark with disgrace. This misfortune was the consequence of the ill-concerted plan of this expedition. THE two commanders of this enterprize, were men of very moderate abilities. They were at variance with each other, and ill affected to the protector. Inspectors of their conduce were, however, appointed ; who, under the name of commissaries, checked their operations. The soldiers who were sent from Europe, were the very refute of the army; and those that were taken from Bar badges and St. Christopher's, were common robbers. They were not allured by the hopes of plunder, the only encouragement that can work upon men of this cast; an encouragement too, which the experience of all ages has found to be the moi effectual spur to insure success in distant and dangerous enterprizes. Things were so circumstanced, that the soldiers could not be upon good terms with their officers, nor the officers with one another, nor the commissaries with either. Proper arms, provisions fit for the climate, and necessary in fractions for the management of the whole, were all wanting. THE execution of this attack was answerable to the plan. The landing of the troops, which might have,been
been effered'witllout danger, even in the port itself, was B O O K conducted without a guide at forty miles distance. The X troops wandered about for spur days, without water or provisions. Exhausted by the excessive heat of the climate and disheartened by the misunderstanding of their .officers, they did not even contend with the Spaniards* for victory. They scarce thought themselves in safety when they had got back to their ships. BUT ill success contributed to reconcile the contend ing parties, that were highly exasperated with each other. The English, who could not brook the thought of sub season and humiliation, reclaimed by the very faults they had committed, and called back to a love of their cour try, to a sense of duty, and a thirst for glory, failed for Jamaica under a fixed resolution, either to peril there or to make the conquest of it. THE inhabitants of this island, subject to Spain since the year 1509, were ignorant of what had happened at St. Domingo, and did not imagine they had any enemy failing i their latitudes. The English therefore landed without opposition. They were marching boldly to lay siege to St. Jago, the only fortified place in the colony, wheAl the governor gave a check to the spirit which seeme to animate them, by offering-them terms of capitulation. The discussion of the several articles, artfully prolonged, gave the colonies time to remove their molt valuable effects into secret places. They fled for shelter to inaccessible mountains, leaving only to the conquerors, a city with out inhabitants, moveables, treasures, or provisions. THIS artifice exasperated the besieged to the highest degree. They sent out detachments on every side, with express orders to destroy every thing they met with. The anxiety they felt on finding these parties re turn, without having been able to make any discoveries;,D 2 the
B O O K the want of every convenience more sensibly felt by this x. , , nation than any other; the mortality which increased among them every day; the dread they were under of being attacked by all the forces of the new world: all these circumstances conspired to make them clamour vous for returning to England. The cowardly defer tion of so rich a prize as Jamaica, which they ha( almost resolved upon, would have soon exposed them to-the mortifying reproaches of their country, had they no discovered pasture land, where the Spaniards had con vexed their numerous flocks. So unexpected an instance of good fortune, occasioned a change in the sentiment of the English, and made them resolve to complete thei conquest the spirit of activity, which this last resolution hai excited, convinced the besieged, that they could not b safe either in the forests or precipices, where they had concealed themselves. They unanimously, therefore agreed to set fail for Cuba. Here they were receive with such marks of disgrace as the weakness of their de fence deserved; and they were sent back again: outwit, such succours as were unequal to the forces they had t contend with. From that principle of honour, whic in moi men arises rather from a fear of hame, than love of glory, they made a more obstinate resistance than could have been expected from the smallness of th succours they had received. They did not evacuate ths The Inconsiderable island, till they were reduced to the greate canes ra extremities; and from that time it has been one of th American most valuable possessions of Great-britain in the nes seas. Oris world. gn, mm BEFORE the English had made any settlements at Ja tiers, expeditions and mica, and the French at St. Domingo, one pirates o def!enfin both nations, who have since been so much distinguished or thee pi rites. b
by the name of Buccaneers, had driven the Spaniards out B O O K,X. of the small island of Tortuga; and fortifying themselves there, had with an amazing intrepidity, made excursions against the common enemy. They formed themselves into small companies, consisting of fifty, a hundred, or a hundred and fifty men each. A boat, of a greater or smaller size, was their only armament. Here they were exposed night and day to all the inclemency of the weather without having scarce room enough to lay down. A love of independence, the greatest blessing of those who are not proprietors of land, rendering them averse from those mutual restraints imposed by society for the com mon good; they paid therefore no regard to these, and some fang, while others were desirous of going to sleep As the authority they had conferred upon their captain, was confined to his giving orders in battle, they lived therefore in the greatest confusion. Resembling the fa wages, .without any apprehension of wanting, and with out any attention to preserve the necessaries of life, they were constantly exposed to the severest extremities of hunger and thirst. But deriving, even from their very distresses, a courage superior to every danger, the fight of a hip transported them to a degree of frenzy. They never deliberated on the attack, but it was their custom to board the hip as soon as possible. The smallness of their-vessels, and the skill they hewed in the manage ment of them, screened them from the fire of the greater ships; and they presented only the fore part of their little vessels filled with fusileers, who fired at the port holes with so much exactness, that it entirely confounded the most experienced gunners. As soon as they threw out the grappling, the largest hip seldom escaped them. IN cases of extreme necessity, they attacked the people of every nation, but sell upon the Spaniards at all times.,D 3 They
B 0 0 K They thought, that the cruelties they had exercised on,X. the inhabitants of the new world, justified the implacable aversion they had sworn against them. But this was heightened by a personal pique, from the mortification they felt, in seing th-selves debarred from the privilege of hunting and thing, which they justly considered as na tural rights. Such sere their principles of justice and religion, that whenever they embarked on any expedition, they used to pray to heaven for the success of it; and they never returned from the plunder, but they constantly returned thinks to God for their victory the lips that failed from Europe into America, fel dom tempted their avidity : the merchandise they con gained, would not have been easily sold, nor been very profitable to these barbarians in those early times. They always waited for them on their returns when they were certain, that they Were laden with gold, fisher, jewels, and all the valuable productions of the new world. If they met with a single sip, they never failed to attack her. rs to the fleets, they followed them, till they failed out of the gulph of Bahama ; and as soon as any one of the ships was separated by accident from the rest, it was taken. The Sp niards, who trembled at the approach of the Buccaneers, whom they called devils, immediately surrendered. Quarter was granted if the cargo were a rich one, if not. all the prisoners were thrown into the tea.,PETEP. Grand, a native of Dieppe, had no more than four pieces ot cannon and twenty-eight men on any one of his veil-ls: with this fmaii number he ventured to attack the vice-admiral of the galleons. He boarded him, having its given orders to fink his own vessel; and th crew were to surprize] nd intimidated, by this daring instance of bravery, that they made no resistance. Hd went immediately to the captain's cabin, who was then,engaged
engaged at play with his friend, and having presented a B 0 0 K pistol to his throat, compelled him. to surrender. This commander, with the greater part of the crew, they landed at the nearest cape, as an useless burthen to the ship, they had so ill defended, and reserved only a sufficient number of sailors to work her. Fifty-five Buccaneers who had failed into the southern sea, proceeded as far as California. To return into the northern sea they were obliged to fail two thousand leagues against the wind, and in a canoe. They arrived at the freights of Magellan, when disappointed and chagrined at having made no plunder in so rich a country, they took the resolute. to fleer again their course towards Peru. They had intelligence given them, that there was in the port of Aura, a hip whose cargo was valued at several millions: they took it, and immediately embarked upon it. MICHAEL de Banco, Jonque and Lawrence le Graff were cruising before Cartagena with three small vessels: when two men of war failed out of the harbour with or ders to attack these Buccaneers, and to bring them alive or dead. The pirates had no sooner perceived them, but they began the engagement and took them. Thane who were not killed in the action were set on lore with a letter of thanks to the governor, for having f-rit two such good hips; at the same time acquainting him, that if he had frill any to spare, they would wait for them a fortnight; but if they had no money on board, the men were not to expect any quarter. THE captains Michael and Rouge, having received intelligence that, in order to elude their vigilance, a very valuable cargo had been (hipped from Cartagena in vessels carrying a foreign flag; sell upon the two Dutch lips, that were loaded with this treasure, and plundered 4 them.
BO OK them. The Dutch, exasperated at their being beat by,' .lips so inferior to theirs in strength and size, dared to,tell Michael de Banco openly, that if he had been alone, he would not have been so successful. Let us begin the fight again, replied the captain, with haughtiness, and my companion Jh l oy be senator of the engagement. If I am te conqueror, I will not only have the si ver you carry on board, but both your Sips hall ayo be mine. The Dutch, far from accepting the challenge, quickly made off, fearing, that if they took any time to consider of it, they would not have the liberty of refuting. Captain Lawrence was unexpectedly overtaken by two Spanifh ships, carrying each sixty pieces of cannon, and fifteen hundred men. ou ave, laid he, addressing him self to his companions, too much experience not to be fin side of your danger, and ta much courage to fear it: On this ocafon we mu avail ourselves of every circumstance, hazard every thing, attack and defend ourselves at the same time. Valour, artifice, harness Ind even despair itself, nuns now be employed. Let us dread the ignominy of a defeat; et us dread the cruelty of our enemies i and let us fg-t that tee may estate them. AFTER this speech, that was received with general applause the captain called to him the bravest of the Buccaneers and, in the presence of the rest, ordered him to set fire to the gut-powder, on the first signal he should give him; evidencing, by this resolution, that they must either expect death, or defend themselves. He then ranged his men on both sides of his'veffel, draining his voice, in order to be more distinctly heard by every one, and extending his hand toward the enemy: liVe must, says he, pss between their finis, ant fire upon them from every fJe. This plan of operation was executed with equal courage and dispatch. The galleons, however, were not taken ;
taken; but the ships company were so reduced in number, B 0 0 K that they either were not able, or had not courage enough a to continue to combat against a handful of resolute men, who, even in their retreat, had carried away the honour of the victory. The Spanish commander atoned, by his death, for the disgrace his ignorance and cowardice had stamped upon his country. In every engagement the Buccaneers hewed the same spirit of intrepidity. WHEN they had got a considerable booty, at first they held their rendezvous at the island of Tortuga, in order to divide the spoil; but afterwards the French among them went to St. Domingo, and the English to Jamaica. Each person holding up his hand solemnly protested that he had secreted nothing of what he had taken. If any among them were convicted of perjury, a case that seldom happened, he was left, as soon as an opportunity offered itself, upon rome desert island, as a traitor unworthy to live in society. Such brave men among them as had been maimed, in any of their expeditions were first provided for. If they had lost a hand, an arm, a leg, or a foot, they received two hundred crowns. An eye, a finger, or a toe, lost in fight, was valued only at half the above sum. The wounded were allowed a crown a day, to enable them to have their wounds taken care of. If they had not money enough to answer there several demands, the whole company were obliged to engage in some fresh expedition, and to continue it till they had acquired a sufficient flock to enable them to satisfy such honourable contracs.,AFTER this act justice and humanity, the remainder of the booty was divided into as many shares as there were Buccaneers. The commander could only lay claim to a single share as the rest; but they complimented him with two or three, in proportion as he had acquitted,him-
BO 0 himself to their satisfaction. hen the vessel was not,. the property of the whole company, the person who admitted it out and furnished it with necessary arms-and ammunition, was entitled to a third of all the prizes. Favour never had any influence in the division of the booty; for every hare was determined by lot. In stances of such rigid justice as this, are not easily met with: and the extended even to the dead. Their share was given to the man who was known to be their com panton when alive, and therefore their hir. If the per son, who had been killed, had no intimate, his part was sent to his relations, when they were known, If there were no friends or relations, it was distributed in charity to the poland to churches, which were to pray f.,r the Person, in whose name there benefactions were given, the fruits of inhuman but necessary piratical plunders. WHEN there duties had been complied with, they then indulged themselves in all kinds of profusion. Unbounded licentiousness in gaming, wine, v.omel, every kind of debauchery was carried to the utmost pitch of excess, and was flopped only by the want which such profusions brought on. Those men who were enriched with several millions, we-e in an instant totally ruined, and destitute of clothes or provision'. They returned to ea, and the new supplies they acquired were loon lavished in the same manner. If they were asked, what satisfaction they' could find in dissipating so rapidly, what they had gained with so much difficulty; they made this very inge rufus reply; Exposed as we are, to such a variety "of dangers, our life is totally different from that of "other men. Why should we, who are' alive to-day,,and may be dead tomorrow, think of hoarding up? we "reckon only the day we have lived, but never think,' uo!i
upon that which is to come. Our concern is rather to B 0 0 K " squander life away than to preserve it." THE Spanish colonies flattering themselves with the hopes of seeing an end of their miseries; and reduced al tost to despair in finding themselves a perpetual prey to there ruffians grew weary of navigation. They gave up all the power, conveniences, and fortune their con reasons procured them, and formed themselves almost into o many distinct and separate slates. They were fen bible ot the inconveniences arising from such a conduct, and avowed them, but the dread of falling into the hands of rapacious and savage men, had greater influence over them, than the dictates of honour, interest and policy. This was the rise of that spirit of inactivity which con tenues to this time this despondency served only to increase the boldness of the Buccaneers. As yet they had only appeared in the Spanifl Settlements, in order to carry off some necessaries of life, when they were in want of them. They no sooner found their captures begin to diminish, than they determined to recover by land what they had lost at sea. The richest and most populous countries of the continent were plundered and laid waste. The culture of lends was equally neglected with navigation; and the Spaniards dared no more appear in their public roads, than fail in. the latitudes to which they belonged among the Buccaneers, who signalized themselves in this new species of excursions, Mdntbar, a gentleman of Languedoc, particularly distinguished himself. Having, by chance, in his infancy, met with a circumstantial ac count of the cruelties praised in the conquest of the new world, he conceived an aversion that he carried to a degree of frenzy against that nation that had com mitted such enormities. Upon this point a story is told,of
B 0 0 K of him, that when he was at college, and acting in a . .play the part of a Frenchman, who quarrelled with spaniard, he sell upon the person who personated the Spaniard, with so much fury, that he would have strangled him, had he not been rescued out of his hands. His heated imagination continually represented to him innumerable multitudes of people massacred by savage monsters who came out of Spain. He was animated with an irresistible ardour to revenge so much innocent blood. The en enthusiasm which the spirit of humanity worked him up to, was turned into a rage more cruel even than that of re litigious fanaticism, to which so many human aims had been sacrificed. The manes of these unhappy sufferers seemed to rouze him and call upon him for vengeance. He had heard Come account of the Buccaneers, who were said to be the most inveterate enemies to the Spanish name: he therefore embarked on board a (hip in order to join themis the passage they met with a Spanish vessel, attacked. it, and as it was usual in those times, immediately board ed it. Montbar, with a fabre in his hand, sell upon the enemy, broke through them, and hurrying twice from one end of the hip to the other, levelled every thing that opposed him. When be had compelled the enemy to Surrender, leaving to his companions the hap pines of dividing so rich a booty, he contented himself with the savage pleasure of contemplating the dead bodies of the Spaniards, lying in heaps together, against whom he had sworn a constant and deadly hatred. FRESH opportunities on occurred, that enabled him; to exert this spirit of revenge, without extinguishing it. The (hip he was in arrived at the coast of St. Domingo where the Buccaneers on land immediately applied to barrer omne provisions for brandy. As the articles they,offered
offered were of little value, they alledged in excuse, that B O K their enemies had over-run the country, laid waste their settlements, nd carried off all they could. "Why, re-plied Montbar, do you tamely differ such insults ?" Neither do we, answered they in the same tone; the Spaniards have experienced what kind of men we are, " and have therefore taken advantage of the time whence were engaged in hunting. But we are going to join some of our companions, who have been frill more c ill-treated than we, and then we hall have warm " work," - If you approve it, answered Montbar, I " will head you, not as your commander, but as the foremost in exposing myself to danger." The Buccaneers perceiving, from his appearance, that he was such a. man as they wanted, chearfully accepted his offer. The fame.day they overtook the enemy, and Montba: attacked them with an impetuosity that astonished the bravest. Scarce one Spaniard escaped the effects of his fury.,- The remaining part of his life was equally distinguished as this day. The Spaniards suffered o much from him, both by land and at lea, that he acquired the rame of the Extrminator.,His savage dispositions, as well as that of the other Buccaneers, who followed his example, having obliged the Spaniards to confine themselves within their settlements, these free-shooters resolved to attack them there. This new method of carrying on the war, required superior forces, and their associations in consequence became more numerous.; The first that was considerable, was formed by Lolonois, who derived his name from the sands of Alone. From the abject slate of a bondsman, he had gradually raised himself to the command of two canoes, with twenty-two men. With these he was so successful, as to take a Spanish frigate on the coast of Cuba. Save
B 0 K slave having observed that after the engagement, all th(, men who were wounded were put to death, and fearin£,left be should share the same fate, wanted to save himself by a declaration equally perfidious, but very consistent with the part he had been destined to take, He assured them, that the governor of the Havannah had put him on board, in order to serve as executioner to all the Buccaneers he had sentenced to be banged, not doubting in the least but that they would all be taken prisoners. The savage Lolonois, fired with rage at this declaration, or tered all the Spaniards to be brought before him, and cut off their heads one after another, sucking, at each broke, the drops of blood that trickled down his.fabre. He then repaired to the Port-Du-Pripce, in which were four sips, fitted out purposely to fail in pursuits him, He took them, and threw all the crew into the sea, .ex kept one man, whom he saved, in order. to send him with a letter to the governor of the Havannah, acquaint ing him with what he had done, and assuring him, that he would treat in the same manner all the Spaniards that should fall into his hands, not excepting the governor himself, if he should be so fortunate as to takehim. As ser this expedition, he ran his canoes 'and prize.fbips aground, and failed with his frigate only to the-island of Tortuga. HERE he met with Michael de Banco, who hadst much distinguished himself for having taken, even under the cannon of Porto-bello, a Spanish (hip, whose cargo was estimated at (a) five millions of livres, and .by other lions equally brave and daring. These two adventurers gave nut, that they were going to embark together. on an ex petition equally glorious and profitable; in consequence of which, they on college together four hundred and,fprty (a) 11S,,o,;
forty men. This body of men, the oft nlancrous the B 0 K Buccaneers had yet been able to muster, filed to the bay of Venezuela, which runs up into the country for the space of fifty leagues. The fort that was built at the en trance of it for its defence, was taken; the cannon nailed up, and the whole garrison, consisting of two hundred and fifty men, put to death. 'I'hey then remarked, came to Maracaybo, built on the western aft of the river of the same name, at the distance of ten leagues from its mouth. This city, which had become flourish ing and rich by its trade of king, tobacco, and cocoa, was deserted. The inhabitants had retired with their es sects to the other side of the bay. If the Buccaneers had not lost a fortnight in riot and debauch, they would have found at Gibraltar, near the extremity of the lake, every thing that the inhabitants had secreted, to secure it from being plundered. On the contrary, they met with forti fictions lately erected, which they had the useless satis faction of making themselves masters of, at the expence of a great deal of blood; for the inhabitants had already re moved at a distance the nor valuable part of their property. Exasperated at this disappointment, they et fire to Gibraltar Maracaybo would have (hard the same fate, had it not been ransomed. Besides the sum they received for its ransom, they also carried off with them, all the cronies, pictures, and bells of the churches ; intending, as they said, to build a chapel in the island of Tortuga, and to consecrate this part of their spoils to sacred pur poses. Such was the religion of these barbarous people, who could make no other offering to heaven, than that which arose from their robberies aud plunder. WHILST they were idly dissipating the spoils they had made on the coast of Venezuela, Morgan, themoftre- owned of the English Buccaneers, failed from Jamaica,to
B o 0 K to attack Porto-bello. His plan of operation was so well,x.,c contrived, that he surprized the city, and took it with out opposition. In order to secure the fort with the same facility, he made the women and the priests fix the sealing ladders to the walls, from a full conviction, that the gallantry and superstition of the Spaniards, would never sussex them to fire at the persons they considered as the object of their greatest love and reverence. But the garrison were not to be deceived by this artifice, and the victory was obtained only by superior courage and strength; the treasures that were carried away from this famous fort, were acquired at the expence of much blood shed the conquest of Panama was an object of much greater importance. To secure this, Morgan thought it necessary to fail in the latitudes of CoRa-sicca, to pro cure rome guides in the island of St. Catherine's, where the Spaniards confined their malefactors. This place was so strongly fortified, that it ought to have held out for ten years again a considerable army. Notwithstanding this, the governor, on the first appearance of the pi rates, sent privately to concert measures how he might surrender himself without incurring the imputation of cowardice. The result of this consultation was, that Morgan, in the night time, should attack a fort at some distance, and the governor hould sally out of the citadel to defend a pols of so much consequence; that the as assailant hould then attack him in the rear, and take him prisoner, which would consequently occasion a surrender of the place. It was agreed that a smart firing should be kept up on both sides, without doing mischief to either. This farce was admirably carried on. The Spaniards, without being exposed to any danger, appeared to have done their duty; and the Buccaneers, after having to-tally
tally demolished the fortifications, and put on board their B 0 0 K,X. vessels a prodigious quantity of warlike ammunitions, ,* which they found at St. Catherine's, steered their course towards the river Chagre, a place of so much consequence, that it seemed the only one that could insure them success equal to their highest expectations. At the entrance of this considerable river, a fort was built upon a steep rock, which the waves of the sea con faintly beat against. This bulwark, very difficult of ac cess, was defended by an officer, whose extraordinary abilities were equal to his courage, and by a garrison that deserved such a commander. The Buccaneers, for the first time, here met with a resistance that could only be equalled by their perseverance: it was a doubtful point, whether they would succeed, or be obliged to raise the fiegc,,when a lucky accident happened, that proved fa favourable to their glory and their fortune. The com mander was killed, and the fort accidentally took fire: the besiegers then taking advantage of this double 'calamity made themselves males of the place. Morgan left. his vessels at anchor, with a sufficient number of men to guard them, and failed up the rivers in his sloops for forty-three miles, till he came to Cruces, where the river ceases to be navigable. He then pro needed by land to Panama, that was only five leagues di fiant. Upon a large and extensive plain that was before the city, he met with a considerable body of troops, whom he put to flight with the greatest ease, and entered into the city, that was now abandoned. HERE were found prodigious treasures concealed in the wells and caves. Some valuable commodities were taken upon the boats that were left aground at low water. In the neighbouring forests they also found several rich de posits. But the party of Buccaneers, who ere making - VOL. III. E excursions
BO O Excursions into the country, little satisfied with this,, booty, exercised the most shocking tortures on the spaniards, Negroes, and Indians they discovered, to oblige them to confers where they had secreted their own as well as their masters riches. A beggar accidentally going into a cate, that had been deserted through fear, found some apparel that he put on. He had scarcely dressed himself in this manner, when he was perceived by these pirates, who demanded of him where his gold was. The unfortunate wretch hewed them the ragged clothes he had just thrown off. He was instantly tor. tured, but as he made no discovery, he was given up t( some slaves, who put an end to his life. Thus the tree. sures the Spaniards had acquired in the new world bj massacres and tortures, were reformed again in the same mann erin the midst of such scenes of horror, the savage Mor. gan sell in love. His character was not likely to infpin the objet of his attachment with favourable sentiment towards him. He was resolved therefore to subdue b, force the Spaniard that inflamed and tormented him Stop, cried (he to this savage, as the sprung with eagerness out of his arms. Stop. Thinker h tu hen, that thousand ravish my honour from me, as thou has wrested from me m fortune and my liberty ? Be abjured, that I can die and b revenged. Having said this, she drew out a poignard from under her gown, which She would have plunge, into his heart, had he not avoided the blow. But Morgan, still inflamed with a passion, that ths determined resistance had turned into madness, instead o the tenderness and attention he had made use of to sub due his captive, now proceeded to treat her with th greatest inhumanity. But the fair Spaniard, immoveable' determined, excited, at the same time that she refilled th,franti
'frantic behaviour of Morgan ; till at last the pirates, ex B O 0 K pressing their resentment, at being kept so long in a ate of inactivity, by a caprice which appeared extravagant to them, he was under the necessity of listening to their complaints, and giving up his pursuit. Panama was burnt. They then failed away with a great number of prisoners, who were ransomed a few days after, and came to the mouth of the Chagre with a prodigious booty. BEFORE the break of the day that had been fixed upon for the division of the spoil, Morgan, whilst the rest of the pirates were in a deep sleep, with the principal Buccaneers of his own country, set fail for Jamaica, in a vessel which he had laden with the rich spoils of a city that served as the staple of commerce between the old and new world. This instance of treachery, unheard of before, occasioned a rage and resentment not to be de scribed. The English pursued the robber, in hopes of wresting from him the booty of which their right and their avidity had been frustrated. The French, though sharers in the same loss, retired to the island of Tortuga, where they made several expeditions. But they were trifling, till in the year 1603, they attempted one of the greatest consequence. THE plan of this expedition was formed by Van Horn, a native of Ostend, though he had served all his life among the French. His intrepidity would never let him allow the leat signs of cowardice among thole who associated with him. In the heat of an engagement he went about his ship, successively observed his men, and immediately killed those who shrank at the sudden report of a pistol, gun, or cannon. This extraordinary discipline had made him become the terror of the coward, and the idol of the brave. In other refers, he readily shared 2 with
B O OK with the men of spirit and bravery the immense riches. that were acquired by so truly warlike a disposition. Whence went upon these expeditions, he generally failed in his frigate, which was his own property. But these new de signs requiring greater numbers to carry them into execution he took to his assistance Gammon, Godfrey, and Jonque, three Frenchmen, distinguished by theirex- plots, and Lawrence de Graff, a Dutchman, who had signalized himself still more than they. Twelve hundred Buccaneers joined themselves to these famous commanders, and failed in fix vessels for Vera Cruz.,THE darkness of the night favoured their landing, which was effected at three leagues from the place, where they arrived without being discovered. The governor. the fort, the barracks, and the posts of the greatest con sequence; every thing, in short, that could cause any re distance, was taken by break of day. All the citizens. men, women, and children, were shut up in the churches where they had fled for helter. At the door of eac church were placed barrels of gun-powder, to blow ul the building. A Buccaneer, with a lighted match, wa! to set fire to it upon the least appearance of an incur. re&icn.,W Whilst the city was kept in such terror, it was easily pillaged; and after the Buccaneers had carried off wha was most valuable, they made a proposal to the citizen who were kept prisoners in the churches, to ransom thei lives and liberties for (b) ten millions of livres. Thes unfortunate men, who had neither eat nor drank so three days, cheerfully accepted the terms that were of fred them. Half of the money was paid the same daw the other half was expected from the internal parts of th country ; when there appeared on an eminence a considerable (b) 437,5Col.
miserable body of troops advancing, and near the port a B 0 0 K fleet of seventeen ships from Europe. At this armament the Buccaneers, without any marks of surprize, retreated quietly, with fifteen hundred flares they carried off with them, as a trifling indemnification for the rest of the mo ney they expected, the payment of which they referred to a more favourable opportunity. These ruffians faith fully believed, that whatever they pillaged or exacted by force of arms, upon the coasts where they made a de scent, was their lawful property; and that God and their arms gave them an undoubted right not only to the capital of those contributions they compelled the inhabitants to sign a written engagement to fulfil, but even to the in terest of that part of the sum that was not yet paid. THEIR retreat was equally glorious and daring. They boldly failed through the midst of the Spanish fleet, that let them pass without firing a ingle gun; and were, in sac, rather afraid of being attacked and beaten. The Spaniards would not probably have escaped so easily, and with no other inconvenience, but what arose from their fears, if the vessels of the pirates had not been laden with silver, or if the Spanish fleet had been freighted with any other effects but such merchandise as were little valued by there pirates. A year had scarce elapsed since their return from from Mexico, when on a sudden they were all seized with the rage of going to plunder the country of Peru. It is pro able, that the hope of finding greater treasures upon a sea little frequented, than on one long exposed to pi races of this kind, was the cause of this expedition. But this is a circumstance very remarkable, that both the French and English, and the particular associations of these two nations, had projected this plan at the same time, without any communication, intercourse, or de-,E 3 sign
B O O K sign of king in concert with each other. About fours , thousand men were employed in this expedition. Somers them came by Terra-firma, others by the freights of Magellan, to the place that was the destined object of their wishes. If the intrepidity of there barbarians had been directed, under the influence of a skilful and referable commander, to one tingle uniform end, the Spaniards would probably have lost this important colony. But their natural character was an invincible obstacle to so rare an union for they always formed themselves into several lifting and separate bodies, sometimes even so few in number as ten or twelve, who aed together or asunder as the molt trifling caprice directed. Grognier, Lecturer, Picard, and Le Sage, were the most distinguished officers among the French: David, Sammy, Peter, Wil ner, and Towne, among the English. SUCH of those adventurers as had got into the South Sea by the streights of Darien, took up wit' the first vessels they found upon the coast. Their associates, who had failed in their own vessels, were not much better pro vide. Weak however as they were, they beat several times the squadrons that were fitted out against them. But these victories were hurtful to them, as they interrupted their navigation. When there were no more hips to be taken, they were cor.i::ualiy obliged to make descents upon the coasts to get provisions i or to go by land in or der to plunder those cities where the booty was secured. They successively attacked Septa, Puebla-Nuevo, Leon, Reclejo, Puebla-Viejo, Chiriquita, Lefparfo, Granada, Villa, Nicoya, Tecoanteca, Mlucmeluna, Chiloteca, New-segovia, and Guayaquil, the most considerable o' all these places. MANY of them wre then by surprize, and most of them deserted by their inhabitants, who fled at the fights
of the enemy; taking, however, the precaution of carry B 00 K ing off with them their most valuable sees. The Spa , niards never ventured to defend themselves, unless they were at leash twenty in number against one, and even then they were beaten. They were so much degenerated, that they had lost all ideas of the art of war, and were even unacquainted with the use of fire-arms. They were even more ignorant and cowardly than the Americans, whose ashes they trampled upon. This want of courage had encreased from the terror the name of a Buccaneer inspired them with. The monks had drawn them in the same colours in which they represented devils, as anthropophagi, beings who had not even the appear ance of humanity; a species ofmon.kies, more mischievous than men. Such a picture, the offspring of a wild and terrified imagination, equally imprinted on every mind aversion and terror. As the Spaniards always fled at the approach of there monsters in human shape, they knew of no other method of revenging themselves, but by burning or cutting in pieces a Buccaneer. As soon as there ad venturers had quitted the place they had plundered, and any of them had been killed in the attack, his body was dug up again, mangled in different parts, or made to pars through the various kinds of torture, that would have been practised upon the man had he been alive. This abhorrence of the Buccaneers was extended even to the places on which they had exercised their cruelties. The cities they had taken were excommunicated; the vcly walls and soil of the places that had been laid waste, were anathematized, and the inhabitants abandoned them for ever. This rage, equally impotent and childish, contributed only to embolden that of their enemies. As soon as they took a town, it wa directly set on fire, unless a fum,,E + proportions
B 00 K proportioned to its value, was given to save it. The prisoners taken in battle were inhumanly massacred, if they were not ransomed by the governor or one of the inhabitants gold, pearls, or precious stones, were the only things accepted of for the payment of their ransom. Silver being too common, and too weighty for its cur rent value, would have been troublesome to them. The chances of fortune, that seldom leave guilt unpunished, nor adversity without a compensation for its suffering, atoned for the crimes committed in the conquest of the new world, and the Indians were amply revenged of the Spaniards. BUT it happened in this, as it generally does in events of this nature, that those who committed such outrages, did not long enjoy the fruits of them. Several of them died in the course of there piracies, from the effects of the climate, from distress, or debauchery. Some were shipwrecked in passing the freights o Ma magellan and at Cape Horn. Moi of those who attempted to get to the continent by the Northern sea, sell into the ambuscade that was laid for them, and lost either their lives or the booty they had acquired. The English and French colonies gained very little by an expedition that lashed four years, and found themselves deprived of their bravest inhabitants. WHiLST fch piracies were committed on the southern ocean, the northern was threatened with the same danger by Grammcnt. He was a native of Paris, by birth a gentleman, and had distinguished himself in a military capacity in Europe; but his pelion for wine, gaming and women, had obliged him to join the pirates. His virtues, perhaps, were sufficient to have atoned for his vices. He was affable, polite, generous and eloquent: he was endued with a found judgment, and was a perfoo,of
of approved valour, which on made him be considered B 0 O K as the chief of the French Buccaneers. As on as it was known that he had taken up arms, he was immediately joined by a thousand brave men The governor of St. Domingo, who had at length prevailed upon his rasher to approve of the project, equally wise and just, of fixing the pirates to rome place, and inducing them to become cultivators, was desirous of preventing the concerted ex petition, and sorbad it in the king's name. Gammon, who had a greater hare of sense than his associates, was not on that account more inclined to comply, and sternly replied: How can Lewis disapprove o a design he is unacquainted with, and which has been planned only a few days ago ? This answer highly pleated all the Buccaneers, who directly embarked, in 1685, to attack Campeachy. Theylanded without opposition. But at sone distance from the coast, they were attacked by eight hundred Spaniards, who were beaten and pursued to the town; where both parties entered at the same time. The can non they found there was immediately levelled against the citadel. As it had very little effect, they were contriving some stratagem to enable them to become halters of the place; when intelligence was brought that it was abandoned There remained in it only a gunner, an Englishman and an officer of such signal courage, that he chose rather to expose himself to the greatest extremities, than basely to flie from the place with the rest. The com mander of the Buccaneers received him with marks of distinction, generously released him, gave him up all his efecis, and besides complimented him with some valuable presents: such an influence have courage and fidelity on the minds of those, who seem to violate all the rights of society.,The
B O K The conquerors of Campeachy spent two months in,searching all the environs of the city, for twelve or fifteen leagues, carrying off eery thing that the inhabitants in their flight, thought they had preserved. When all the treasure they had collected from every quarter was deposited in the ships, a proposal was made to the go vernon of the province, who fill kept the field, with nine hundred men, to ransom his capital city. His re susan determined them to burn it, and demolish the ci tadel. The French, on the festival of St. Louis, were desirous of celebrating the anniversary of their king. In the transports of their patriotism, intoxication, and na national love of their prince, they burnt to the value of a million of logwood; a part, and a very considerable one too, of the spoil they had made. After this singular and extravagant instance of folly, of which Frenchmen only could boast, they returned t St. Domingo. THE little advantage which the English and French Buccaneers had made by their l1s expeditions upon the continent, had insensibly led them to have recourse to their usual piratical expeditions upon the ea. Both were employed in attacking the ships they met with; when a particular train of circumstances again engaged the French into that course of life, which every thing had rendered them dissatisfied with. The powerful influence that the words glory, country and gold carry with them, determined twelve hundred of them to join a squadron of seven ships, that failed from Europe in 1697, under the command of Pointis, to attack the fa mous city of Cartagena. This was the most difficult enterprize that could be attempted in the new world. The situation of the port, the strength of the place, the badness of the climate, were so many obliaclcs that seem ed insurmountable to any but men of such dispositions as,the
the Buccaneers were. All nations concurred in conferring B 0O OK on them the glory they had acquired by their success; but they were basely deprived of the advantages resulting from it. The rapacity of the commander, who had sent off a part of the booty, estimated at forty millions (c), scrupled not, as soon as they let fail, to offer forty (d) thousand crowns for the hare of those who had been the chief instrument in procuring him o considerable a spoil. THE Buccaneers, exasperated at this treatment, re solved immediately to board the skies, called tl Scepter, where Pointis himself was, and which, at that time, was too far distant from the rest of the ships, to expel to be assisted by them. This avaricious commander was upon the point of being massacred, when one of the male-contents cried out: Brethren, july should oe attack this rafael ? he has carried o fs not' i that lelorgr to us. HI has lift our Jh/,'re at Carthage, ani there we nile go to re rover it. This proposal was received with general ap pause. A savage joy at once succeeded that gloomy me melancholy that had seized them, and without further deli operation, all their ships failed towards the city. As soon as they had entered the city, without meeting with any resistance, they shut up all the men in the great church and spoke to them in the following words: "We " are sensible that you consider us as men void of faith " and of all religion, as devils rather than men. The " opprobrious language you affect to make use of when " you speak of us, and the refusal you have made to " treat with us of the surrender of your city, are evil dent indications of the sentiments you entertain of us. " You see us here armed, and capable of avenging or " selves. 'The paleness visible upon your countenances," con (c) i,750,0oo. (,1) 5i^-^l.
B OO K" convinces us that you expca the mos vere punish-scents, and your conscience testifies that you deserve " them. We shall on undeceive you, and convince you " that we do not deserve the scandalous appellations you "load us with; but that they belong rather to the ge-general under whose command we have lately fought. " The traitor has deceived us. I hough he owes the " conquest of this city to our valour, he yet refuses to " share the spoils of it with us, and by this instance of,injustice has compelled us to return to you again. \Wre c do it with regret, and the moderation we hall hew will be a proof of it. We pledge our faith to you, " that we will immediately return as soon as you have paid us five millions of livres ;(e) this is the uttnol of our claim. But if you refuse us so equitable a de " and, the greatest distresses await you, the cause of " which you can only ascribe to yourselves, and the in-famous Pointis, whom, if you please, you may load " with all kinds of execrations. AFTER this discourse the most venerable priest in the city mounted the pulpit, and made use of the influence that his character, his authority, and his eloquence gave him, to persuade his hearers to yield up without reserve all the gold, silver, and jewels they had. The collection which was made after the sermon, not furnishing the rum demanded, the city was ordered to be plundered. From the houses they proceeded to pillage the churches, and even the rnmbs, but not with that success they ex ceded, and they concluded by torturing the principal in habitants two of the citizen; of the greatest distinction were seized, and separately questioned where the public money and the: of the individuals was deposited. They de-,ci5rcd (r) :sS,750/.
claret they knew nothing of the matter; but their an B O O K fewer was accompanied with so much simplicity as well as, . firmness, that the pirates would not make use of any fe verities against them. It was, however, agreed, that they hould apparently be killed, by discharging several shots at them. Two other citizens were then called; whose behaviour was similar to that of the former, and the same ceremony was praised upon them. It was publicly given out that all the four had been killed, and that all those who should perils in the same obstinate silence, hould be treated in the same manner. This proclamation proved extremely successful: for above a million (f) was brought in the very same day; and one further contributions were made songe days after. The adventurers, at length, despairing to add any thing to to what they had already amassed, set fail. Unfortunate ly they met with a fleet of Dutch and English hips, both those nations being then in alliance with Spain. Several of the pirates were either taken or sunk, with all the cargo they had on board their hips ; the rest escaped to St. Domingo. SUCH was the last memorable event in the history of the Buccaneers. The separation of the English and French, when the war, on account of the Prince of Orange, divided the two nations: the successful means they both made rise of, to promote the cultivation of land among their colonies, by the assistance of there enter prizing men, and the prudence they hewed in fixing the most distinguished among them and intrusting them with civil and military employments: the protection they were both under a necessity of affording to the Spanish fettle ments, which till then had been a general ol-jet of plunder all there circumstances, and various others, besides the (f) 43,75'
B O 0 K the impossibility there was of supplying the place of,. there remarkable men, who were continually dropping off, concurred to put an end to a society, as extraordinary as ever existed. Without any regular system, without laws, without any degree of subordination, and even without any fixed revenue, they became the astonishment of that age in wh ch they lived, as they will be also of posterity. They would have conquered all America, if conquest and not piracy had been the motive of their aions.,ENGLAND, France, and Spain, sent at different times considerable fleets into the new world. The intemperance of the climate, the want of subsistence, the dejection of the troops, rendered the best concerted schemes unsuccessful. Neither of there nations acquired any na national glory, nor made any considerable progress by them. Upon the very scene of their disgrace, and on the very spot where they were so shamefully repulsed, a small num ber of adventurers, who had no other resources to enable them to carry on a war, but what that afforded them, succeeded in the most difficult enterprises. They supplied the want of numbers and of power, by their authority, their vigilance, and bravery. An unbounded passion for liberty and independence, excited and kept up in them that energy of foul that enables it to undertake and execute every thing; it produced that vigour, that superiority in aion, which the roof approved military discipline, the strongest combinations of strength, the best regulated governments, the most honourable and molt striking re wards and marks of distinction, will never be able to produce. THE principle which actuated these extraordinary and romantic men, is not easily discovered. It cannot be ascribed to want: the earth they trod upon, offered them ime nf treasures, colic ci ready to their hand by mensis
of inferior capacities. Can it then be imputed to avarice? B 0 0 K But would they then have squandered away in a day the spoils acquired in a whole campaign ? As they properly belonged to no country ; they did not therefore sacrifice themselves for its defence, for the aggrandizing its territories or revenging its quarrels. The love of glory, had they known it, would hive prevented them from committing such numberless enormities and crimes, which cast a hade on all their brightest nations. A spirit of in silence and ease never made men rush into constant fa fatigues, and submit to the greatest possible dangers. WHAT then were the moral reasons that gave rise to so singular a society as that of the Buccaneers ? That country where nature seems to have obtained a perpetual and absolute power over the most turbulent passions; where the intemperate riot and intoxication occasioned by public festivals, was necessary to rouse men from a ha ritual state of lethargy; where they lived satisfied with their tedious and indolent course of life: that country became at once inhabited by an ardent and impetuous people, who from the scorching heat of their atmosphere, seem to have carried their sentiments to the greatest excess, and their passions to a degree of frenzy. Whilst the heats of a burning climate enervated the old conquerors of the new world; whilst the Spaniards who were so restless and turbulent in their own country, enjoyed with the conquered Americans, a life habituated to ease and me melancholy; a set of men, who had come out of the most temperate climates in Europe, went under the equator to acquire powers unknown before. IF we are desirous of finding out the origin of this revolution, we may perceive that it arises from the Buccaneers having lived under the hackles of European go governments. The spirit of liberty bing repressed for so,many
B 0 0 K many ages, exerted its power to a degree almost incon-,x.,, derivable, and occasioned the most terrible effects that ever appeared in the moral world. Restless and enthusiastic men of every nation joined themselves to there adventurers as on as they heard of the success they had met with. The charms of novelty, the idea of and desire excited by distant objets, the want of a change in situation the hopes of better fortune, the impulse which ex cites the imagination to the undertaking of great actions, admiration, which easily induces men to imitation, the necessity of getting the better of those impediments that are the consequences of imprudence, the force of example, and the being equally partakers of the same good and bad fortune among those who have freely associated to gather; in a word, the temporary ferment the elements combined with fortune, had raised in the minds of men, alternately elevated to the greatest prosperity, or sunk in the deepest distress; at one time stained with blood and rapine, at another plunged into voluptuousness, rendered the Buccaneers a people wholly lifting in history i but a people whose duration was so transient, that its glory lated, as it were, but a mo ment. WE are, however, accursed to consider these russians with a kind of abhorrence. This they deserve; as the instances of fidelity, integrity, disinterestedness, and generosity, they shewed to one another, did not prevent them from committing such actions as are a disgrace to humanity. But amidst such enormities, it is impossible not to be sTruck with a variety of brave and noble actions, that would have reflected honour on the most virtuous people.,SosME Buccaneers had agreed for a certain sum to guard a Spanish ship, very richly laden. One of them,venturcd
ventured to propose to his companions to enrich them B O O K selves at once, by nanking themselves mailers of the lisp. The famous Montauban, who was the commanded r of the troop, had no sooner heard the proposal, than he desired to resign the command, and to be set on shore. what ! replied three brave men, would (you then leave us ? Is there any one who approves of the treachery that you abhor ? A council was immediately held; and it was deter mined, that the guilty person should be thrown upon the sift coast they came to. They took an oath, that so ilifhoncta man (hould never be admitted in any expedition in which any of the brave men present should Le once ned, as they would think tlhemlc!ves dishonoured bv fitch a connexion. If this is njt to bc looked upon as an instance of heroism, muff we then expect' to meet *sith heroes in an nge, in which every thing great is turned into ridicule, under the idea of enthusiasm ?,AMI;ERICA had scarcely recovered si om the ravages ile Ccafistilat had sustained : f:e had scare begun to be fcl.fible of the prev"cd,the Disadvantages Lie derived from the industry of the Brccal:cers, ;I, and who were now become citizens and huftnldnlep; hen Dutch,OIirel mak the old world exhibited the scene of such a revolution, as i;, ::ny alarmed and terrified the nrw. Charles the second, kin' c."""1" in,Al-clica% of Spain, had just Ended l is life of trouble and r dict. dublin the His subjects, persuaded that a descendent of tie hesse cf tar, t he Bourbon, was only ft to preserve tie monarch,! ec:;t-c iic.lion. had urged him towards the close of his life, to appoint: the duke of Anjou his fcccfli.r. The idea o having the government of two and twenty kingdoms de volve to a family that was not ony his riv.i, but his enemy, had filled him with the mot gloomy apprehensions But after several internal firugc!es, and ;numberless marks of irresolution, he at lair prevailed upon him fess to shew an example ofjufrice, and greatness of foul, ' Vo. 111. F which
B o 0 which the natural weakness of his character gave little,. reason to expect from him europe, tired out for half a century, with th haughtiness, ambition, and tyranny, of Lewis the XIVth exerted its combined forces to prevent the increase of power already become too formidable. The fatal effet of a bad administration, had entirely enervated the Spa niards; the spirit of superstition, and consequently c weakness, that prevailed then in France, had procure such advantages to the league, as are hardly to be papal leled from the union of federal powers against a fungi one. This league gained an influence, that was in creased by the victories, equally glorious and beneficia it obtained every campaign. Both kingdoms were oo left without strength or same. To add to their miser tunes, their calamities were a general object of joy, an none were touched with a sense of compassion at the mi series they experienced. ENGLAND and Holland, after having profusely lavish their blood and treasures in defence of the Emperor thought it necessary to attend to their own interests i America. This country invited them to rich as well s easy conquests. Spain, since the destruction of its gal Icons at Vigo, had no ships , and France, after having experienced that fatal reverse of fortune that had reduce her to the lowest ebb, had neglected her marine. Th bad management was owing to a distant cause. LEWIS the XIVth was, in his earlier age, ambitious every thing that might add to his glory, and consequent imagined, that without a navy, the splendor of his reign would in some degree be diminished. It is more tha probable, that he considered his fleet as one of the near that would tend to fill all nations with admiration, t punish the Genoese and Algerine, and convey the terre
of his name to the extremities of the globe. Had he, in B 0 0 K that plan of greatness he was desirous of acquiring to .' himself, considered a naval power as a part of it, he would have imitated Cromwell, and encouraged navigation which supports a marine by commerce. False ideas of things milled him in this particular. In proportion as the restlessness of his temper excited him frdh enemies, and that he found himself obliged to maintain a greater number of troops in constant pay; that the frontiers of the kingdom were extended, and that his forts were more numerous, the number of his hips decreased. He made use of part of the funds that were destined to establish his maritime power, even before his necessities obliged him to it. The frequent removals of the court, public buildings that were either useless or too mag munificent, objeAs of ostentation or of mere pleasure, and various other causes, equally trifling, drained the money that ought to have been employed in supporting his navy. From that time, this part of the power of France began to grow weak: it insensibly declined, and was entirely lost in the misfortunes of the war that was railed for the Spanish fucceilon. AT this period the acquisitions the Spanish and French had made in the West-indies, were not put in a state of defence. They were, therefore, the more likely soon to become the property of Great-britain and the United Provinces; the only modern nations who had eabliflled their political influence upon the principles of commerce. The vast discoveries of the Spaniards and Portuguese, had given them, indeed, an exclusive possession of those treasures and productions that seemed to promise them the empire of the world, if riches could obtain it: but these nations, intoxicated as they were with gold and blood shed, had never so much as suspected that their possessions 2 in
B 0 0 K in the new world could si port their power in the ,l.l,X. 4 The English and Dutch went ito he contrary extreme building tri, opinions turn the r! fen cf the influence they fuppJflt America mr.ut nccei-rily give to Europe. A system which the, not only misapplied, but carried to exccfa.,TiEsE two nation, one cf which had no natural ad vantage, and the other cry ir.conf;ldralie ones, had from the criilcl pcri-d hit upon the true principles cl commerce, and purl .ed th;:n with greater rcrfevcrani than mi;-.t has b:- exn xpetd fr,.n the tile-rent situations they had 'ben ell *'.!. i. Accidental circum france ha:i;:n at si: ll rni.iia: th idultrv of the porch of thrfc linton:, o ii I e .ti htliif vet! i;uikly tiu.talit by her rival poli, lou genii, wan. mure lively, anti wvhoe rs rccs w cic tiiucrh *,r-tcr. I he war. ocaljioi by a pir.t ci ni d. it. , and ici:cd by jealous, loon dee gencr-tcd into i.rpO . o .:i; ;;, ;ins bloody engage r.;.C:t. I hele .:e;c not iLzr;:; filch politics as arc carried on cc:',-ccn i,, di:- ;illic people ! tir rmblee er the ;,:cz h?.;:rc and -::: o one private nan acai;rf e::c:h.;. Th;: c: i . .'y v.,ie c :der of uniting, i. orc-r to c 'ck a:: rt':-! the po vcr of Fr:itce, f. Fp' : 'l- ' z.::.:::iis. i !he luccclb they met with vhlch'n .:. , p ,i: .:,:, itu i.'i ;i:d tiecilfve, rc int their isrmtr a''. . erji til.c al;'r.rhceii(tn li ; ver itr , that c.Ich si.: j was ] b h;'in lor the a- of a :ri cp;:;::., ::. c:i di a recta: pe .e, .z- a rd ' such i 2.:,:g:C:s eris, S gve tih,li a g et luteic:.y e their this tile Dutch Fran that tin.c ;:, :1;' L.:,r:e ofc ths grcatct iipor-,talic
t.rcc in the political fylfem of Europe, and Holland was B 0 0 K totally disregarded. 'ITE .cars succeeding the peace of Utrecht, revived the ideas of the golden age to the world, which would be always in a sufficient fate of tranquility, if the Eu romans did not disturb its peace, by carrying their arms and their dil.;ntions into every quarter of the globe. The fields were now no more covered with dead bodies. The hal ve of the husbands was not laid waste. The sailor ventured to shew his flag in every lea without dread of pirates. Mothers no more saw their children forced from them, to lavish their blood at the caprice of a weak monarch, or an ambitious minister. Nations did not then unite to gratify the parsons of their sovereigns. For some time, mn lived together a brethren, as much, at learn, as the pride of princes and the avidity of the people would allow. THOUGH this general happiness was to be attributed to those who held the reins of government, yet the general improvements of reason contributed, in one degree, to produce it. Philosophy then began to lay open and re commend the sentiments of benevolence. The writings of sone philosophers had been made public or dispersed among the people, and contributed to polish and refine their manners. This inherit of moderation had inspired men with the love of the more useful and pleasing arts of life, and abated, at leash, the cdfire they till then had of destroying one another. The thirst of blood I'cmed to be alleged, and all nations, with the assistance of the discoveries they had made, ardently set about the im provement of their population, agriculture and manu secures. THIS spirit of activity exerted itself principally in the Caribbees. The ages upon the continent can fubfit,,F 3 and
B 0 0 K and even flourish, when the rage of war is kindled in theirs' neighbourhood and on their frontiers because the prin-,cipal object of their attention is the culture of their lands, their manufactures, their subsistence and internal consumptions. The case is very different with regard to those settlements that different nations have formed in toe great Archipelago of America. In there, life and property are equally precarious. None of the necessaries of life are the natural produce of the climate. Wearing apparel and the instruments of husbandry are not even made in the country. All their commodities are intend ed for exportation. Nothing but an easy and safe com mutilation with Africa, with the northern coasts of the new world, but principally with Europe, can procure these islands that free circulation of the necessaries of life they receive, and of those superfluities they give in exchange for them. The more the colonies had suffered from the effects of that long and dreadful commotion, that had thrown every thing into confusion, the greater was their vigilance in endeavouring to repair the losses their fortunes had sustained. The very hopes entertain ed that the genera; weakness would insure a lasting tranquillity encouraged the mot cautious merchants to sup ply the colonists with goods in advance; a circumstance that contributed greatly to quicken the progress they made, which, notwithstanding all their care and attention would otherwise have been very flow. These assist dances insured as well as increased the prosperity of the islands, till a form, that had been a long time gathering, broke out in the year 1739, and disturbed the peace of the world. 0F.-'^nrif THE English colonies, but chiefly Jamaica, had car ca are the tied on a contraband trade with the Spanish settlements clin o din the new world, which curom had long made them were coni 01739. con
confider as lawful. The court of Madrid, becoming B K better acquainted with its interests, concerted measures to put a flop to, or at least to check this intercourse. The plan might possibly be prudent, but it was necessary it should be put in execution with equity. If the hips that were intended to prevent this fraudulent trade had only flopped those vessels that were concerned in it, this measure would have deserved commendation. But the abuses inseparable from violent measures, the eagerness of gain, and, perhaps, too a spirit of revenge, incited them to stop, under the pretext of their carrying on a contra band trade, many hips which in reality had a legal destination ENGLAND whole security, power and glory is founded upon commerce, could not very patiently brook that any checks should be put to it; but were highly incensed when they found that these grievances were carried to an excess inconsistent with the law of nations. In London and in parliament general complaints were made against the au thorn of them, and invectives against the minister who suffered them. Walpole, who had long ruled Great Bri tain, and whose character and abilities were better adapted to peace than war, and the Spanish council which shewed less spirit as the storm increased, concerted toge ther terms of reconciliation. Those fixed upon, and sign ed at Pardon, were not approved by a people equally in flamed by its interests, its resentments, and by party spirit, and especially by the number of political writings that were constantly published n the subjea.,ENGLAND teems daily with numberless productions of the press, in which all the concerns of the nation are treated with freedom. Among these writings some are judicious, written by men of understanding, or citizens well informed and zealous for the public good. Theirs 
O K; advice contributes to discover to the public their true in '.terefls, and to assisi the operations of government. Few,ufe-fl regulations of internal oeconomy are adopted in the slate, that have not fire been printed out, rio lulled, or improved i some of these writings. Unhappy are the people .ho arc dpr;vcd of such an advantage. But among the fre ieaii:ble men, who serve to enlighten their country, numr.ecrs are to be met with who either from a d;l4 ui to those in pi.-cr, or frr.m a dcrfre of falling in sith the tie if tie peop!l, or from Some personal mo tive-, delight i lang up a p;rit of diction and dis cjnca . 3'hc inc .is-,.n'er!l made use of for this pur Fp:e, :re to h t^ht:n nc pletin;:ns of their country be-,a:id their Jut', d cl b.unl s, and to make the prof c nfi.dr the ir. . pre-actions then by other powers for t pre.a the o their possessions) as visible en encroachments. These corporations, equally the off spring of partial and fas-hood, establish prejudices th cites of which occa:cn the ration to be constantly at war with its neichli ours. If government, from a de fire of preferring the balnof e of juillicc between itfclfand other powers, should refute to yield to popular prejudices it finds itself, at length, under a necessity of do in i.,TI:E mob of London, the most contemptible of any in the universe, as the people of England considered in 2 Political hew, are the first people in the world; abet ted by twenty thousand young men, the fins of distinguished mcc::a;ts, by their clamours and threats, beret the parliament house, and influence its deliberations. Such tumults are frequently excited by a party in the parliament irfclf. Thole despicable lien, once rouzed, revile the nos' repel .ib ' ct, 1, .hl has incurred the i di.-ica.fre and bn rcndLrd !"-i'icLus to them : thty,-t
let fire to his house, and scandalously insult the arno fa I 0 O K cried characters. The tumult can never be appeared, , i:::l! thee fee the niniiiry to vyild to their fury. This iiiirct, th:u;:h continual influence f commerce upon the public mcaluetl, was, perhaps, never fu sensibly felt as at te period we ar fp.-ai:mg of. ENGLA ) began the war successfully and with much superior advantages. She had a great nun;bcr of sailors on foot. Her storehouses filled with warlike ammunition and her dock-yards vere in the rtol flourish i:v. condition. Her feet were all in rcadielcs and com minded by experienced o 'hers, waited only for orders to go out, and Spread the terror .nId glory f: her fia to tie extremities o te v, nld. \Valipo!I, bv nile ing such grl-c;t advantage, tuti:l not be censured as having betrayed his country. In this particular he is above suis picion,fincc ie was never c cn a.c,icd of corruption, in a country whiche Sac charges h-'c been often made without being bricked. Fli conduct, houwccr, was not entirely irreproachable : he appr-chcnlicn he was under cf in voliin - hills in difficulties tt Ili ht endanger his administration ; the nccrfity he found of applying thole treasures in military operations, that he had amal';ed to bribe and secure to hilnfe.f a party, joined to that of im ping new taxes, which tuft necessarily rail t!e aver son that had been entertained both fr li; pori;n and principles, to the hillel dare: all the , and fl oe other circumstances occatiolc ;in isolation in his conduct that was attended wil the not fatal consequences. He loll time, which is of the utmost importance in every expedition, but particularly decisive in all naw l opera tions. Time fleet that Vernon commanded, after having de fired Porto-Lcllo, v-as uInfcccf'ul at Cartagena; ra-ether
B 0 0 Other from the badness of the climate, the misunderstand,. ing and inexperience of the officers, than the valour or the garrison. Anson's fleet was lost at the doubling of Cape Horn, which one months sooner might have been performed without danger. If we were to judge of what he might have done with his whole squadron, from what he ally executed with a single ship, it is not improbable but that he-would at least have shaken the empire of the Spaniards in the South Sea. A settlement that was attempted in the island of Cuba was not prosperous; Those who intended building a city there, all died. Ge neral Oglethorpe, after having opened the trenches for thirty-eight days, was forced to raise the siege of fort St. Austin in Florida, vigorously defended by Manuel Mon piano, who had time enough to prepare himself against the attack. THOUGH the first efforts of the English against Spanish America, were not successful, yet the alarm was not ap pleased. The navy, the character, and government of the English, were three great resources they had still left, sufficient to make the Spaniards tremble. In vain did France unite her naval powers, to at in conjunction with those of Spain. This confederacy neither checked the intrepidity of the common enemy, nor animated the minds of such as were overwhelmed with fear. Fortunately for both nations, as well as for America, the death of the emperor Charles the With, had kindled in Europe an obstinate war, in which the British troops were detained, to support an interest that was extremely doubt fil. The hostilities, commenced in defiant countries with such great preparations, terminated at last insensibly in a few piracies, that were committed on both sides. The most remarkable event that happened at that time, was the taking of Capc-Brctcn, which exposed the fifery,,commerce,
commerce, and colonies of France, to the greatest dan } O O K gers. This valuable possession was restored to the French . at the peace; but the treaty that gave it up, was not less the objet of censure. THE French, ever influenced by a spirit of chivalry, that has so long been the dazzling folly of all Europe, imagine the sacrifice of their lives sufficiently compensated, if it has contributed to extend the frontiers of their country that is to say, when they have compelled their prince to the necessity of governing them with less attention and equity than he did before i but if their territory re mains the same as it was before the war, they then think their honour is lost. This rage for conquest, excusable indeed in a barbarous age, but which more enlightned ones hould never be reproached with, threw disgrace on the treaty of Aix-la-chapelle, which restored to Austria all the places that had been taken from her. The na tion, too trifling and capricious, to attend to political discussions, could not be convinced, that by forming any kind of establishment for the infant Don Philip, an alli ance with Spain was effectually secured; that she herself was thereby engaged to adjust, with the house of AuRria, some interests of the greatest importance : that by be coming guarantees to the king of Prussia for Silesia, two rival powers would in consequence of such an ar rangement be formed in Germany; to produce which happy esse had been the labour and care of two centuries that by restoring Fribourg, and those towns in Slanders that had been destroyed, they would be easily re taken, if war should again be declared and carried on with vigour: besides, that the number of land forces might always be very early lessened of fifty thousand men, and the Caving which such a reduction would produce, might and ought to be employed in increasing the navy,,IF
B.O O K IF therefore the French nation had not even been ob,. lived to attend to the management of her affairs at home which were then in a very alarming f.lte ; if her credit and commerce had not been entirely ruined: if fie of her most confiderabie pro inceshlad notbeen in the greatest dilfrefa; if she had not loll the key of Canada if her colonies lead not been threatened with certain and immediate invasion: if her marine had not been so entirely defrayed, a scarcely to ha, c a ship left to find into the new wold and if Spain held not been upon the point of concluding a separate treat) with England : independent of all these c:rcumltalc , yet peace, as it was then agreed to, would have dire ed the approbation of the noli visible and jude i us nice. THE ease w:ih which Marshal Saxe penetrated into the internal pre, inches of the Netherlands, was an object that particulars) attract the French. It will readily be al lowed, that nthln seemed possible to the victorious arms of Lw is tee XIVth ; but it may be thought para doxicai to assert, that the English were extremely de fibrous of seing the Dutch subdued. If the republic, which could nt pi.ib! separate self from its allies, had been conquered, its inhabitants, filled as the), were with ancient as well as prcferit prejudices against the govern ment, laws, manners, and religion of their c nq error, would hardly e submitted to his dominion. Would they nt certainty hac con'. eyed their people, their stock, and their indus r, to Great Britain ? And can there be thereat. doubt .:he.er such considerable advantages would not hae been infinitely more valuable to the English, than an alliance with the Dutch? To ths cb 'r-taon let us venture to add another, which tho',i h n t ttenidtd to before, will, perhaps, seem not les evil-nt. The court of Vienna has been thought,either
either very fortunate, or very skilful, to have been able B O O K ly the means of negociations, to have welled out of , the hands of rhe French those places which had been taken from her during the war. But would he not have bcenl more fortunate, or more kiifil, had he let her enemy keep part of the conquers ncbaincd over her ? That priodl is nw pale,, when the life of Austria was equal, or, perhaps , lipurior to the hr ufc of Bourbon. Policy, therefore, flhuald have cn:.icd her t interest other powers in her fortune, eel: from the lofics he had sus tailed. This the might have clwecid be Licriitking some thing, apparently at least, to France. Europe, alarmed at the increasing power of ths rioiiarchi', which is na naturally hated, envied, and dreaded, wo uld hale renewed that spirit of animosity that hdl been sworn a?lnfl Lewis the XIVth and more formidable lcaI:cs would necessarily have ben formed in confluence ot such sentiments. This general definition of people was more likely to have recvecied the readiness ot the new hould. of Austria, than the re-acquisition of a distant and limited territory, always open to all attack. Ir is probable, however, that the French plenipotentiary who managed !ic ie cia;:itiion as well as the ni nigher, who d:;-ieed it, would have seen though the ar thrice. Ve do not c Siren; .rl:plc o assert, that neither of them had any view of ext i: ing the tench dominions. But wouiu the! hive wild ic inc penetration to un ravel political designs in the Council, to which they were rcfpol.b'e for their col:it.et ? This is a point we cannot primae to determine. All ovcrnents are generally irnclird;! to extend their territories, and that of France is, from its coi:fitutic, equally lo.,EBcr wh:trvLr truth there b:iy be in these reflections, jt must b: a.lcr!, that tile expectations of the two,French
B 0 0 K French ministers, who fettled the peace, were disappoint-sed. The principal object they had in view was the pre servation of the colonies, that had been threatened by the enemy. But as soon as the danger was over, this un bounded source of opulence was neglected. France kept on foot a large body of troops, retained in her pay a great part of Germany, and aed in the same manner as if another Charles the th had threatened her frontiers; or another Philip the 2d could have thrown the internal parts of the kingdom into confusion by his intrigues. She was not sensible that her superiority upon the conti went was acknowledged, that no ingle power could venture to attack her; and that the event of the last war, and the arrangements fettled by the last peace, had ren tered the union of several powers against her impossible. A thousand equally weak aud trifling apprehensions di rubbed her tranquility. Her prejudices prevented het from perceiving that she had only one enemy really de serving her attention, and that this enemy could only be checked by a considerable flet.,THE English, naturally more inclined to envy the prosperity of others than to enjoy their own, are not on ly desirous of becoming rich, but of being exclusively so. Their ambition is gain, as that of the Romans was empire. They do not properly week to extend ther do minions, but their colonies. Commerce is the sole ob sec of all the wars they are engaged in, and the desire of engrossing it all to themselves, has made them perform many great actions, and commit the most flagrant acts of injustice. This pelion is so powerful that e en their phi lofophers are not free from it. The celebrated Mr. Boyle used to say, that it would be a commendable action to preach christianity to the savages; because, were they to know only so much of it as would convince them of,their
their obligation to wear clothes, it would prove of great B 0 o K service to the English manufactures. . ., A system of this nature, that the English have scarcely Americans the ever lost fight of, discovered itself more openly in 1755, caulofth e than it had ever done before. The rapid improvements war in made in the French colonies surprised every attentive 755 mind, and awakened thejealoufy of the English. Ashamed however, to let it appear at first, they concealed it for some time under mysterious disguises; and a people who have pride or modesty enough to term negotiations the ar tiller of their enemies, did not scruple to employ all the windings and artifices of the most insidious policy. FRANCE, alarmed at the confused Rate of her finances, intimidated by the finally number of her ships, and the inexperience of her admirals; seduced by a love ofeafe, pleasure and tranquility, favoured the attempts that were made to deceive her. In vain did some able statesmen continually urge that Great-britain was and ought to be desirous of a war; and that she was compelled to begin it, before the military navy of her rival had attained to the same perfection with that of her trading navy. These causes of apprehension seemed absurd in a country where trade had been hitherto carried on by a spirit of imitation only; where it had been shackled by every species of restraint, and always sacrificed to finance; where it had never met with any real encouragement, and men were, perhaps, ignorant that they were in possession of the most valuable and richest commerce in the world. The nation, indebted to nature for a most ex excellent soil, to chance for her colonies to the vivacity and pliancy of her disposition for a taste in those arts which vary and increase the enjoyments of life ; to her conquests and her literary merit, and even to the dispersion of the protestants (he had unfortunately lost, for the desire excitedly
B 0 0 K in other countries of imitating her: this nation, that would . be too happy, were she permitted to enjv herapi-,ness, would not perceive that fe n ih l, b deprived of some of these advantages, and iinlif'ily l11l a sacrifice to those arts employed to li'l hr into iehri.;:'. When the English thought there v.-s ::o ur:!:hr occasion ta dissemble. they comnarerC.cd L hoi:i;i-es, .'ilthcu having previously paid anv a::c:it::t :u trluit lot r.lliti-:, that are in use among civilized people. THOUGH a deciar ion o war were only a mcie ceremony between nations, dihici l.cmn to '.c h';u;d b no ties as on as they iiteil, to nil., re-nc an:ticer-et it is very e indent, that the :;v:;h n;i:,ilry zv reason to do beetling more than Iulspeit the iniuaice of its conduce. The weakness of their rcnafLres, the per plenty of of their operations, the various nr'cs ofjutfi- fiction they adopted, and the i:::'.ence the) in vain ex erred to make parliament aFpr:.ce so aI'c'.daius a viola tion ; thes with fever! other cirrunfiices Fiainiy discovered the guilt of their proceeding. if' those weak r.ini-ers, of so great a power, had hen l: s old in com sitting crimes, as they were uniiiucnced hb the laws of virtue, they wool' hive rrr. a project rs the net extrenr.ee nature. \X'he:c th!:e- :r .f:! rjav-e orders to at tacit. ::! th rr;ch *h- s ::':: the northern craft (,f-rCi;.',, the '.C:w lJd hae C:.'::ned these orders to cverv sea. hz r- in cr the oral |'',.iTr rh t was capable (f i v. anv rcwl; :nc, v.-oLid li.: e ben the nccfar c-0! Ii' l.rce of 'lch a fir'p- cnf-elcicv. Jt, fall wou!'J .:.e initiated all (,:hl r n1 tions, anti hereto the Etsi: a f.- hd a' pc.rer, i w.rl.ld Ive commanded :bcei'nce in ere (.:.n ;cr f the wars. A success r*em-l:ble and de'ii.e 'wo'lld have made the multitiude,t.'' ': n p li h, rh v. cult have ili-,f i i
fid it to the political world, and the remonstrances of the B O o K,x. wise, would have been lost in the clamours of the ignorant . and ambitious. A weak, but still an unjust conduct, was attended with The be very contrary effect. The ministry of George the lid thgewaun- was hated as well as despised over all Europe. France, favourable,to the Eng- though unexpectedly attacked, was victorious in Canada, li;lh gained considerable advantages by sea, took Minorca, and threatened London itself. Her rival was then sensible of the truth of what men of understanding had long since observed even in England, that the French united the greatest contrarieties in their character; that they blended virtues and vices, marks of weakness and strength, that had always been thought inconsistent with each other: that they were brave, though effeminate; equally addicted to pleasure and glory; serious in trifles, and trifling in matters of importance; ever disposed to war, and ready to attack : in a word, mere children, suffering themselves, as the Athenians of old, to be disquieted and moved to anger for interests, whether real or imaginary i fond of enterprize, ready to follow any guide, and comforted in the greatest diirefles with the most trifling success The English, who according to a vulgar, though strong expression of Swift's, are always in the cellar or in the garret, and know no medium, began then to be too much afraid of a nation that they had unjustly despised. A spirit of despondency succeeded to that of presumption. THE nation, deceived by the too great confidence it had placed in its opulence; humiliated by the introduction of foreign troops, and by the moral character and inability of its governors; weakened too by the collision of factions, which keep up an exertion of strength among a free people in times of peace, but which destroy their power in times of war : the nation, disgraced, astonished, VOL. III. G and
B 0 0 K and uncertain what measures to pursue; equally sensible . of the distresses it had already been exposed to, as of those,it foresaw, was incapable of exerting itself to revenge the one, or prevent the other. All zeal for the common cause was confined to the granting of immense supplies. That the coward is sooner disposed to part with his money than the brave man, in order to ward off the danger, and that the present critical situation of affairs required them not to consider who should pay, but who should Rand forward to fight: these were truths, which at that time seemed to have been forgotten the French, on the contrary, were dazzled with some instances of success that were of no consequence. Pre fuming, that the surprize their enemies had been thrown into, was a proof of their weakness, they involved them selves further than was confident with their interest, in the troubles that then began to divide the German poXwrs.,A fyrfem, which if unsuccessful, must have been at tended with the greatest disgrace, and if fortunate, must have been destructive in the end, served to confound them. Their vanity made them forget, that a few months be fore, they had applauded the wise and enlightened states man, who being desirous to avoid a land war, which some ministers were willing to enter into, from their despairing of success at ea, had, with the vivacity and confidence peculiar to genius, addressed himself to them in the fol lowing words: Genteeler, said he, let us all, who are here present in council, go out with torches in our hands, and jet fire to all our slips; if they are unless to our defence, and are only conducive to make our enemies inside us. This poli tical infatuation threw them into the greatest difficulties. Errors of the cabinet were followed by military faults. The management of the army was subjected to the in-,trigueA
'cigues of the court. A series of bad success was the con B O OK sequence of a perpetual change of commanders. This light and superficial nation did not perceive, that even supposing, what indeed was impossible, that all those who were successively intrusted with the direction of the military operations, had really been men of abilities, yet they could not contend with advantage against a man of genius, assisted by a man of distinguished capacity. Mis fortunes made no alteration in the system they had formed, and the changes of generals were endless. Whilst the French were thus deceived, the English, from a spirit of dejection, proceeded to the moi violent fury: they changed a ministry that had sully given ge neral dissatisfaction, and placed a man at the head of as fairs who was equally an enemy to timid measures, to the royal prerogative, and to France. Though this choice was the consequence of that spirit of party which causes the greatest revolution in England, yet it was such as the circumstances of the time required. William Pitt, a favourite from his youth in the three kingdoms, on ac count of his integrity and disinterestedness, his zeal again corruption, and his inviolable attachment to the interests of the public; had a foul formed for great designs; was distinguished by a species of eloquence, that never failed to captivate the minds of his hearers, and by a character equally firm and enterprizing. He was ambitious to make his country rise superior to all others, and at the same time to raise his own same. His enthusiasm fired a na tion, which will always be inspired by a love of liberty. The admiral who had suffered Minorca to be taken, was arrested. thrown into prison, accused, tried, and sentenced to death. Neither his rank, his abilities, his family, nor his friends, could protect him from the rigour of the law. His own sip was the spot fixed upon for the executions z of
B O 0 K of his sentence. All Europe, at the news of this melan-,X. cholv event, was struck with astonishment, blended with admiration and horror. It recalled the memory of the ancient republics. The death of byng, whether he was guilty or not, proclaimed in the molt alarming manner, to those who were , alloyed by the nation, what fate they must expca, if they bt;aycd the confidence reposed in them. Every man said within hinmflfat the infant of battle: It ir on this field 1 nuit die, rather than with infamy on a fLcfold. Thus the blood of one ran, accused ci cowardice, was productive of a spirit of heroism. 'Tli:stfilemofholdingoutan exam peofterrortofubdue the impressions of fear, was further strengthened by a ar e:mul.:i.n, that seemed to promise the revival of public spirit Dissipation, pleasure, indolence, and frequently vice, and a corruption of manners, occasion warm and numerous inter aches in most kingdoms of Europe. The English have little intercourse and connects: n with each other they ;have, perhaps, lss table for social life than other na tiens, but the idea of r y project that may be serviceable to the state, immediately unites them, and they seem, a it were, animated by one foul. All ranks, parties, an fccls, contribute to insure its success, and with fuel liberality as cannot be paralleled in thole places where th notion of a particular native country does not prevail This zeal is more remarkably distinguished when the na tion has placed an implicit confidence in the minister who has the direction of public measures. As soon a Mr. Pitt was made prime minister, a marine society wv established, which perceiving that there appeared a re mildness in general to enter into the sea service, and diff proving the cuito-n of prosing men into it, invited tl *children of the poorest caf in the three kingdoms, to b come Ship boys, and their fathers Labours. They undei,toe
took to pay the expenses cf their voyage ; to t.,kc care of B O O K them in sickness; feed, clothe, and ufonifh them with X. every thing necessary to preserve their health during the time they were to be at sea. The kin , struck with this instance of patriotism, gave their () 22,5Co livres; the prince of Wales () rood livres, and the princess of Wales (i) 4500. The actors of tic different theatres, whose abilities this enlightened nation h.:s h:d te gcncrcfi-y to pay a proper attention to, aed trhi!- b-.ft plays for the increase of so respectable an cftablifinliclt. 'l'he theatres were never so much could as on this occasion. A hu;:- trod of there ship boys, and a hundred of the fiiors, clothed from a zeal that may truly be held sacred, ap feared upon the stage; a decoration this surely not in fervor to that arising from the elegance of dies., and the brilliancy of jewels. THIS public zeal and attachment to hc interests OfT!e Eng- the nation, animated the minds of all the English, and hill are the effects of it were displayed in the difference of their from their conduct. They ravaged the costs of their enemies; kthlargy,,and size beat them every where by sea; intercepted their nli;ga- the French tion, and gave a check to all their forces in Cephalic. :.'i Sp - They drove them out of North-america, Africa., and the East-Indies. Till Mr. Pitt became minister, all the expeditions of the nation, made in distant countries, had been successful, and must ecefl'aily have been rs, be cause they had been ill concerted. He, on the contrary, planned such prudent and useful designs; his preparations were conducted with so much t;refitlht and dispatch; his means were so well adapted to the cnd- he wanted to obtain; the confidants of his measures so weil chosen; he established so much harmony between the land and ea forces, and raised the spirits of the English to such a,G 3 heigh;, t) 9541. 7s. 6d. (/.) 393/, I5s. (i) 196/. 17s. 6d.
B 0 0 K height, that his whole adrr.nifrzaticn was a scries of conquests He used to say with hiiip, father of Alexander,the Great, neat viiery w a's b t°urcy;'d by money, alii that mno.y mn:f nt! befit red at tie xje,.ce of victory. BY such a conduct, and such principles, Mr. Pitt had always been successful against France in every place. He pursued them to their mfi valuable islands, even to their sugar plantations. These possessions, so justly prized for their importance, were not, however, better secured. The fortifications that were erected there, were constructed without judgment, and were in a ruinous state. Ever since the beginning of hostilities, all inter course between these great settlements and the mother country, had been at an end. They could neither receive necessaries from it, nor enrich it with their productions. The buildings necessary for the carrying on of agriculture were a heap of ruins. The masters and the slaves, equally destitute of the necessaries of life, were obliged to feed upon the cattle destined for the works of hus bandy. If any greedy navigators ever reached then, it was through so many dangers, that the colonies were obliged-to pay for what they bought of these traders at the dearest rates, and to give them in exchange whatever they chose to take from them at the lowell pi ice. Though the colonists did not call in the aid of any foreign power to their distance, yet it was not to be-expected, that their attachments to their mother entry, would in duce them to make a vigorous effie against an enemy that might put an er.d to ihiiir digress. IN this situation of affairs, ten ships of the line, some bomb-ketches, and frigates-will five thousand land forces, failed from England, and arrived at Guadalupe. They appeared before the town on the 22d of January, 1759, and the next day bombarded the town of Balie-Terre-,If
If the besiegers had known how to take advantage of B 0 0 K the terror they had spread, the island would have made a very ort resistance: but the slowness, timidity, and irresolution of their operations, afforded the garrison and the inhabitants leisure to fortify themselves in a pals that was at the distance of two leagues from the place. From this spot they topped the progress of the enemy, who were equally distressed from the heat of the climate and the want of provisions. The English, despairing of making themselves matters of the colony on this side, proceed to attack it in another quarter, known by the name of Grande-Terre. It was defended by a fort called Fort Lewis, which made less resistance than that of Basse-Terre, which surrendered in four and twenty hours. The conquerors were again guilty of the error they had before fallen into, and suffered the same inconveniences from it. The event of the expedition began to be doubtful, when Barrington, who succeeded to the command at the death of Hobson, changed the plan of operations. He gave up the idea of penetrating into the country, and re-imbarked his soldiers, who successively attacked the houses and villages upon she coasts. The ravages they committed, obliged the colonies to submit. The whole island, after three months defence, surrendered on the 21 it day of April, upon honourable terms of ca situation. THE troops that had obtained this victory did not en gage in this expedition, till they had ineffectually threat end Martinico. Three years after, Great-britain re lived a design that had been too hastily given up, but greater preparations and more effectual means were em played to carry it into execution. On the 6th of January 1762, eighteen battalions, sent from Europe and from North-america, under the command of generals 4 Moncktou,,N
B 0 0 iK Monckton, and eighteen ships of the line, commanded , by admiral Rodr,e), appeared before the capital of the,ifiand. The landing of the troops the next day was soon offered, without difficulty, and without loss. To take poseidon of the eminences that were fortified and de fended by Fort Royal, seemed to be a matter not so ea fly accomplished. These obstacles, however, were after some warm engagements surmounted, and the place that would soon have been reduced to ashes by the bombs, ca pity acted on the 9th of February; and the whole colo ny did the fame on the 13th. It is probable that the prosperity of Guadalupe, under he British Govern ment, contributed to bring about this general surrender; which might and ought to have been delayed longer. Granada, and the other Leeward islands, whether subject to France, or which, though peopled by Frenchmen, were neutral, surrendered t!.cmfclves without making any resistance. St. Domingo, the only poison the French still re tired in the great Archi;ii,.go of America was likely to fall ino the hands of the English ; and its loss seemed to be not fr callant. If it had not even been known that this-'as the first conquest Great-britain would at tempt, yet it could not be supposed that it would escape its avidity. Would this ambitious nation have checked the career of its own fticcefes so fr as to give up all though, of a conquest t at would have compleated their prolixity . This was a point that seemed not to be doubtful. The crony was g neatly known to be de fenceless, and therefore capable of making the leash re distance. They were so sensible of their weakness, that they seemed disposed to surrender as soon as they should be summoned to do it.,TIE
Thine court of France was equally agonised and B 0 0 K alarmed at the loses it had sustained, and at those it f,,ielaw. They had expected such an obstinate resistance as would have been superior to ever) attack. The descend ants of those brave adventures, who had fettled these colo nies, seemed a rampart sufficient to repel all the forces of the British empire. They almost felt a secret satis faction that the English were directing their efforts to that quarter. The minister had ;inspired the nation with the same confidence that posh-fled him, and it was the mark of a bad citizen to shew the least uneasiness. Ir is an observation, that ve !raw now be allowed to make, that events, which have once happened, will hap pen again. A people whole whole fortunes consist in fields and pastures will, if influenced by any degree of spirit, resolutely defend their possessions. The harvest of one year is the utmost they can hole, and whatever cala misty they may experience, does not distress them to such a degree as to leave them without hopes of recovery. The cale is very different with regard co the wealthy cul tivators of there colonies. Whenever they take up arms, they run the risque of having the labours of their whole lives destroyed, their slaves carried off, and all the hopes of their piety either lost by fire or plunder; they therefore, always submit to the enemy. T hough satis fled with the government under which they live, they are less attached to its glory than to their own posterity. THE example of the first colonies, whose fidelity could not be silken by the most vigorous attacks, does not cwakcn the truth of this observation. The object of war wn.s then the acquisition of territory, and the expulsion of the inhabitants; at present, a war waged against a co tony, is directed inly against the sovereign of it.,THE
1 O 0 K THE plan of attacking Martinico rws laid hb Mr,X' Pitt; though he was not in the rninflfry when it was subdued. The resignation of this great man drew the attention of Europe, and defenses to be considered by every one, who investigate the caucus and effects of po political revolutions. An historian, who ventures to write translations of his own ae, hath seldom, it must bi granted, sufficient lights to guide him. The councils o kings are so fere:, that time alone can gradually with draw the veil that surrounds them. Their ministers faithful depositaries of what they have been intrust with, or interested to conceal it, explain themselves no further than is sufficient to mislead the curious inquirer who wishes to discover them. Whatever penetration hi may hew, in tracing the source and connection of events he is at last reduced to conjecture. If his conjecture happen to be just, frill he is ignorant that they are so or cannot depend upon them; and this uncertainty i scarcely more satisfactory than a total ignorance. H must, therefore, wait till prudence and interest, freed from the restraint of silence, hall unfold the truth; til the death of some great person', by whom he may hav been kept in awe, shall set him at liberty; in a word till one valuable and original records be produced so public infpccaicn, wherein the latent springs on whic the destiny of nations has turn, stall be dfcovered.,THESE reactions should suis end the inquiries of th man who wants ont' to attend to he progress of political intrigues. But we are desirous of penetrating into the fou of one of the greatest men of his age, and, perhaps, we can never do it with greater propriety. The most conspicuous actions of a man's life only are transmitted to posterity, which will, therefore, be deprived of a variety of fimpli,an
and artless details, that enlighten the mind of an oh B o o K server, who lived at the time they happened. MR. Pitt, after having rescued England from thetis grace it had been exposed to in the beginning of the war, arrived to a height of success that astonished all the world. Whether he foresaw this, or not, he did not seem to be embarrassed with it, and resolved to carry it as far as he could. The moderation that o many statesmen had affected before him, seemed to him to be only a pre hence to conceal their weakness or their indolence. He imagined that all states should exert their power to the utmost, and that there was no instance of one nation being able to become superior to another and not effecting it. The parallel that he drew between England and France confirmed him in his opinion. He perceived with uneasiness that the power England founded upon a trade, which she might and would lose, was very inconsiderable when compared with the power of her rival; which nature, art, and particular circumstances had raised to such a degree of strength, under favourable administrations as had made all Europe tremble. Sensible of this truth, he, therefore, determined to deprive France of her colonies, and by confining her to the continent, di finish her importance, and reduce her to the standard of other nations. THE means necessary to complete this projet, already so far advanced, appeared to him absolutely certain. Whilst the imagination of weak minds took shadows for realities, the greatest difficulties appeared trivial to him. Though the nation, of which he was the idol, was some times alarmed at his vain and uncommon engagements, he was not in the least disquieted about them ; because, in his eyes, the multitude was like a torrent, whole course he knew how to dire which way he would.,PER-
B O O K PERFECTLY indifferent with regard to fortune, he was t. . fill more so with regard to power. His successes had,made his administration absolute. With the people he was a republican, with the nobles and the sovereign he was a despotic minister. To think differently from him was a mark of being an enemy to the common cause. HE made use of the superiority he had gained with great advantage, in stirring up the minds of the people. Little influenced by that species of philosophy, which, divesting itself of the prejudices of national glory, to in terest itself in the welfare of all mankind, times very thing by the principles of universal reason ; he kept up a violent and savage spirit of enthufimrn, which he called, and, perhaps, believed, to be a love of his country; bt when traced to the origin, was, in reality, nothing more than a firing aversion from a nation he wanted to oppress. France was as much discourages by this spirit of in veteran, that constantly pursued her, as by the distresses she had undergone. The diminution, the exhausted slate, or, to say the truth, the total ruin of her naval powers, gave her a very very bad prospect for the future. The expectation that a fortunate success by land might occasion a change in the face of affairs, was merely imaginary If one of their squadrons had destroyed one or several of those of her rival, the English would not have renounced any of their claims. This is a general rule. Wherever anv power has acquired a very determined superiority at sea, it can never lore it in the course of the war; more particularly, if that superiority can be traced from a distant cause, and especially if it proceeds partly from the character of the nation. The superiority of one continent above another depends entirely on the abilities of a finale man, and may be lust in a moment: on the contrary, superiority at ea, as it results from the vi-glance
glance and interest of each individual in the state, must B 0 O K always indicate, particularly, when it is encouraged by its X . national constitution: a sudden invasion can alone put a flop to it. NOTHING but a general confederacy could have restored the balance of power; the impossibility of which Mr. Pitt plainly saw. He knew the restraints by which Holland was confined, the poverty of Sweden and Denmark, the inexperience of the Ruffians, and the little regard that several of there powers paid to the interests of France. He was conscious also of the terror which the English forces had forced among them all, the mistrust they entertained of each other, and the apprehension that each of them must have, that they should be distressed be fore they could receive assistance. THE affairs of Spain were particularly circumstanced. The ravages that laid wnafc the French colonies, and which every day increased, might easily extend to the settlements of the Spaniards. Whether this kingdom was not, or woud not be sensible of the danger that threatened it, its usual indolence accompanied it with re gard to there great objets. At length, upon a change of minister, a new sci took place. Don Carlos en devoured to put a flip to this scene of confusion; but it was too late. His overtures were received with a con sumptuous haughtiness. Mr. Pitt, having deliberately considered the extent of his power, answered every pro position that was made, in the following manner: I will life tO them, said he, when )cu lave ae tke Tower of Loinonfwordin rand. 'This mode of expression might disgust, but it was imposing.,Fuchl was the situation of af:'rs, when the court of France thought heilclf obliged to make overtures of peace to that of Grc.t-Britain. Both courts were equal-sly
o 0 K ly apprehensive, and with good reason, that Mr. Pitt,would oppose them. He consented to enter into a negro. citation; but the event hewed, as sensible politicians had conjectured, that his intention was not to continue it. His design was only to furnish himself with sufficient proofs of the engagements that the two branches of the house of Bourbon had entered into against Great-britain, and to lay them before his country. As soon as he had gained this intelligence, he broke off the negociation, and pro. posed declaring war against Spain. The superiority ol the naval power of England above that of both there kingdoms, and the assurance he had that it would be in fiuitely better directed, inspired him with this confidence MR. Pitt's system appeared, to distinguished politicians the only important, and indeed, the only reasonable system. The English nation had contracted such a load of debt, that it could neither free itself from it, nor sup. port it, without opening to itself new sources of opulence Europe, tired out with the grievances Great Britain had made her submit to, waited impatiently so an opportunity to disable her oppressor from continuing them. The house of Bourbon could not but preserve firing resentment for the injuries it had suffered, and so the loses it had justine ; it could not but make fere preparations, and gradually work up a spirit of revenge to which a combination of all its forces might incur success. These motives obliged Great-britain, though a commercial power, to aggrandize itself for its support This cruel necessity was not so sensibly felt by the count cil of George the 3d as Mr. Pitt desired. Moderation appeared to him a work of weakness or of infatuation perhaps, of treachery; and he resigned his posh, beaus be was not allowed to be the declared enemy of Spain.,MA
MAY we venture to form a conjecture ? The English B 0 O K mniilry plainly saw that there was no possibility of - avoiding a war; but equally tired out and disgraced by the power Mr.Pitt had assumed, they were desirous offering that spirit of equality which is tie bring of a republican government. Despairing of being able to raise themselves upon a level with a man of so much distinguished merit, or of making him loop to them, they united their en devours to ruin him. As they found they could not succeed by open attacks, they had recourse to more art fil methods. They attempted to four his temper; the natural fire of his character laid him open to such a stare, and he sell into it. If Mr. Pitt resigned from caprice, he deserves to be censured for not having suppressed or mastered it. If he hoped, by this expedient, to humble his enemies, he shewed, that he had a greater knowledge of affairs than men. If, as he asserted, he resigned, be cause he would no longer be responsible for measures he did not guide, it may be thought that he was more strongly attached to his own personal glory, than to the interest of his country. Whatever may have been the cause of his resignation, nothing but the blindest, most unjust, and most violent partiality can venture to assert, that his virtues and abilities were merely the effect of chance. BUT however this may be, the first sep the new mi niftry took was conformable to the principles of Mr. Pitt; and this was a kind of homage they were compelled to pay him. It was thought necessary to declare war against Spain, and the Weft Indies were to be the scene of there new hostilities. Experience had already discouraged them from making any attempts on the continent of America, and all their views were turned towards Cuba. Men of sense and understanding perceived that,thq
Soothe taking of this island would not be attended with,any apprehension of vengeance from the other colonies. By this step the empire of the gulph of Mexico would be secured; the enemy, whose riches arose principally from the duties laid upon goods, would be deprived of all its resources: the whole commerce of the continent would be seized upon, and the inhabitants would chuse rather to deliver up their riches to the conqueror of their country, than give up those commodities they had been used to receive from Europe. Betides, that the power of Spain would be so much reduced by there losses, tha it would be obliged to submit to any terms. AGREEABLE to this idea, a fleet, consisting of nine. teen hips of the line, eighteen frigates, and about hundred and fifty transports, with o,ooo troops on board which were to be joined by 4000 more from North. America, set fail for the Havannah. To arrive at ths formidable place, it was determined to pass through th old freight of Bahama, not so long in extent, though more dangerous than the new one. The obstacles tha were to be expected in this navigation little known, an too little attended to, were successfully surmounted, in manner worthy the repletion that Admiral Cock ha acquired. On the 6th of July, 1762, he arrived at th place where he was defined; and the landing of th troops was eftced with-ut any opposition, at the titian; of fix leagues eastward of those dreadful fortifications th; were to be taken. THE operations, by land, were not so well conduct as those by sea. If Albemarle, who had the command the army, had been a man of abilities, equal to the con mission he was intrusted with, he would have begun h attack by the city. The single wall that covers it, cou not have held out ser four and twenty hours. It is pn,babl
able, that the generals, the council, and the regency, B 0 0 K,x. who nul infallibly have fallen into his hands, after a success that might so easily have been obtained, would have resolved to capitulate for the Moro. At all events, he would have thus prevented the fort from receiving any affiance or provisions that were supplied from the city during the siege, and have secured the molt likely means to reduce it in a very short time. The plan he pursued of beginning his operations, by the attack of the Moro, exposed him to great distresses. ' he water that was near him was unwholesome, and he found himself under a necessity of procuring some at three leagues distance from his camp. As the sloops that were sent for this purpose might be attacked, it was thought necessary to poll a body of fifteen hundred men on the eminence of Aroftigny, at a quarter of a league's distance from the town, in order to protect them. This body of troops entirely detached from the army, and which could not be withdrawn or supported but by sea, was perpetually in danger of being cut off. ALBEMARLE, who might adjudged of the disposition of the enemy from their not molesting the troops polled at Aroftigny, hould have placed another body of men upon the public road leading to the city. By this shep he would have been able almost to surround it; he would moll undoubtedly have distressed it by famine, prevented all removal of effects into the country, and opened a less dangerous communication with Aroftigny, than by the detachments he was constantly obliged to send, in order to support this advanced body of troops. THE siege of the Moro was carried on without open ng the trenches. The soldiers advanced towards the hitch, and were covered only with barrels of flints, which are, at length, exchanged for sacks of cotton, that VOL. III. H were
B O O K were taken out of some merchant ships arrived from Ja. X. ,maie. This want of foresight occasioned the loss of great number of men, always of great value, but mort especially so, in a climate, where diseases and fatigues cause so great a consumption of them. THE English general, having lost a great part of his army, and finding the necessity, for want of troops, ol remarking in a few days, determined to attempt storm. ins the town ; but a large and deep ditch, cut in the rock, was first to be passed, and no preparations hac been made to fill it up.,IF the faults of the English were very considerable those of the Spaniards were still greater. Though ap prized above a month before that war had commence, between the two nations, they were not rouzed from their lethargy. The enemy was already upon their coats and they had made no provisions of balls of a prope size for their cannons, nor of cartridges; neither ha they one single gun, or even a firelock fit to make ul of.,THE great number of officers, of the land and fe service, who were at the Havannah, occasioned, turin some days of the siege, a great uncertainty in the refolu tions that could not but be favourable to the besiegers. Three ships of war were sunk, to flop up the er trance into the port, which the enemy could not pas The road into the harbour was by this means damages and three great ships lost, without any reason. THE most common prudence would have suggest that the twelve men of war that were at the Havannah should have been got ready to fail. They could not po sibly be of any service in defending the place, and it w a matter of so-ne consequence to save them. But th was neglected. Neither did they think of setting the
on fire, although this was the only way left to prevent B 0 0 K,X. them from falling into the hands of the enemy. THE destruction of the body of English troops, posted at Aroftigny, where they could not receive any assistance, might have been easily effected. This check would have put the besiegers to some difficulty in procuring water, would have deprived them of men, intimidated them, re warded their plan of operations, and inspired the Spanish forces with some degree of confidence. But far from making so easy an attempt, they did not attack, even in the open part of the country, any of the English de attachments, though composed entirely of infantry, and which might have been opposed by a regiment of dragoons and a great number of militia that were provided with horses. THE communication of the city with the internal parts of the country was scarcely even interrupted, and yet none of those who had a hare in the administration, ever thought of conveying the treasure of the king into the inland parts, to prevent its being taken by the enemy. THE last instance of neglect served to complete the whole. In the middle of the ditch had been left a piece of a rock, terminating in a point, and standing by itself. The English placed upon this a few tottering planks, which reached from the breach to the counterscarp. A sergeant, with fifteen men, passed over them at one in the afternoon; and concealed themselves among some sones that had fallen down. They were followed by a company of grenadiers, and some soldiers. When they had collected about a hundred men, in the space of an hour they got upon the breach, under no apprehension of being discovered, and found no men placed there to defend it. Vasco, indeed, informed of what had hap-,H . opened,
B 0 0 opened, hastened to fare the place; but he was killed in , coming up, and his death putting the Spanifh troops that followed him into confusion, they surrendered to a handful of men. The neglect of placing a sentinel to observe the motions of the enemy, lodged upon the ditch, occasioned this event. A few days after, a capitulation was entered into, for the city, for all the places of the colony, ad for the whcl. island. Independent of the great importance of this victory in itfcif, the conquerors found in the Havannah about forty-five (h) millions silver, and other valuable effet, which fully indemnified them for the expences of the expedition. Ad-.n- THE loss of Cuba, the center of the power of Spain, tee proof in the new world, made peace as necesSary to the court cured to Great B-i- of Madrid, as it could possibly be to that of France. ifiidsby whose distresses were now brought to the highcf the peace. pitch the English minifr-c, at that time, consented to; peace; but it seeme a bitter of much difficulty to fettle the conditions. The successes of Great Britain had beet astonishing in North and South America. But, however zrmbiitous fie might be, he could not flatter herself wide the hopes of retaining all the conquests he had made. I was reasonable to suppose that he would give up the pos stiff: she had gained in North America, as the advantage she might expect from them were distant, inconsiderable and uncertain and that he would be content with re serving to he felfthe sugar colonies she had lately acquired which the slate of her finances seemed more particular], to require. The increase of her customs, that was a ne cesare consequence of such a system, would have procure. her the best firkin fund that could be conceived, an which must have bccn so much the more agreeable to th,nation (') 1,68,750;
nation, as it would have been obtained at the expence B 00 K of the French. This advantage would have been attend - ed with three others very considerable. It would, in the first place, have deprived a rival power, and formidable notwithstanding the faults it had committed, of its richest branch of trade. Secondly, it would have contributed to weaken this power, from the necessity that it would have forced it to of defending Canada; a colony, which, from the nature of its situation, muff be detrimental to a na tion that had long neglected its marine. Lastly, it would have kept New England in a closer and more absolute de penance on the mother country, a part of America that would always want to be supported against a restless, active and warlike neighbour. BuT though the council of George the 3d should have thought it necessary to restore to its enemies a had country of the continent, and to reserve to iti:lf the most va liable islands, yet they would not, perhaps, have ventured to adopt so sensible a measure. In other countries the faults of the ministers are imputed only to themselves, or to their kings, who punish them for their misconduct. In England, the errors of administration are generally the errors of the nation, who insist upon obedience to their will, though guided by caprice. THE English, who have complained of the terms of the last peace, when they have been shewn how far short they sell of the advantages they expected from them, had, however, in some measure, dictated those very terms themselves by the tenor of their complaints, either pre pious to, or during the war. The Canadians had committed some outrages and the savages many a&s of cruelty in the English colonies. The peaceable in habitants, terrified at the difitefies they 'ushered, and more lb at those they feared, had caused their clash 3 hours
B o O K hours to be heard even in Europe. Their correspond dents, interested to obtain them a speedy and powerful redress, had aggravated their complaints. Those writers, who eagerly lay hold of every circumstance, that can render the French nation odious, had loaded it with every species of invective. The people, exasperated by the report of the hocking scenes that were perpetually presented to its imagination, wished to see a stop put to there barbarities. ON the other hand, the inhabitants of the sugar colo. nies, ratified with the carrying on of their own com mere, and gaining a part of that of their enemies, were very quiet. Far from wishing the conquest of their neighbours settlements, they rather dreaded it, con filtering it as destructive to themselves, though advantageous to the nation. The lands f the French are so much better than those of the English, that no competition could possibly have taken place. Their allies were of the same opinion and followed the example of their mo, der2tion.,THE consequence of so contrary a plan of conduce was, that the nation was extremely indifferent about the sugar colonies, but very anxious to acquire what they wanted in North America. The ministry, which, in England, can never support its authority against the people or, at least, cannot long maintain itself successfully against its general odium, turned all their views to this object, and found France and Spain readily disposed tQ adopt such a system. The courts of Madrid and France gave up to the English all their former possessions, from the river of St. Lawrence to the Mississippi. Besides this, France ceded the islands of Granada and Tobago, and contented that the English should keep the islands of St. Vincent and Dominica, provided that, on her part, she,might
might appropriate St. Lucia to herself. On these conti 0 0 K tions, the conquerors restored to the allied powers all the conquests they had made in America. Froth this time England loll the opportunity, which, perhaps, may never return, of seizing the ports and making itself master of the sources of all the wealth of the new world. Mexico was in its power, as the English only were in possession f the gulph that opens the way to it. So valuable a continent must, therefore, soon have be come their property. It might have been gained over, either by the offers osman easier government, or by the flattering hopes of liberty: the Spaniards might have been induced to flake off the yoke of the mother country, which only took up arms to distress its colonies, and not to protect them; and the Indians might have been tempted to break the chains that enslaved them to an ar library government. The whole face of America might, perhaps, have been entirely changed, and the English more free and more equitable than other monarchical powers, could not but be benefited by rescuing the human race from the oppressions they suffered in the new world, and by removing the injuries this oppression has occasioned to Europe in particular. ALL those subjects, who are sacrificed to the severity, oppression and deceit of our governments; all those families that are ruined by the raising of soldiers, by the ra wages of armies, by the loans for carrying on war, and by the infractions of peace; all men born to think and live as men, instead of obeying and becoming subject like brutes, would have gladly taken refuge in those countries These, as well as a multitude of workmen, with out employment; of husbandmen without land ; of men of science without any occupation; and numbers of di firefled and unfortunate persons, would have fled into there 4 reb
O OK regions, which receive only just and civilized inhabitant sto render them happy. Above all, the peasants of the north, slaves to the nobility who trample upon them, would certainly have been invited there. Those Ruffian peasants, I mean, who are employed as executioners to torture the human race, instead of tilling and fertilizing the earth. Numbers of them would certainly have been lost in these transmigrations, through extensive seas, into foreign climates; but this would have been an infinitely leis evil than that of a tyranny, working by flow and artful means, and sacrificing so many people to the wills of a small number of men. In a word, the English would be much more gloriously employed in supporting and fa pouring so happy a revolution, than in tormenting their selves in defence of a liberty, that excites the envy of all kings, and which they endeavour, by every method, to undermine and destroy. THIS is a wis which though founded on justice and humanity, is yet, alas ! vain in itself, as it leaves no, thing bit fruitless concern in the mind of him that formed it. Muff then the desires of the virtuous man, for the prosperity of the world, be for ever lost, whilst those of the ambitious and extravagant are so often fa, poured and successful ?since war has been the cause of so much evil, why does it not run through every species of calamity that it may, at length, tend to procure some good. But what has been the consequence of the daft war, one of those that has been the .oft distressful to the human race ? It has occasioned ravages in the four quarters of the globe; and has colt Europe alone above a million of its inhabitants Those who were not its aims, are now op pressed by it, and their posterity will long groan under the weight of he cno.nmois ntxcs it has given rise to. The,natione
nation, whom victory attended in all parts, still feels B O.K,X. ths wounds by which its triumphs were obtained. Its . public debt, which, at the beginning of the war, did not exceed 1,617,o87,o60 livres,(l) arose, at the con elusion of the peace, to 3,330,000,000 livres,(m) for which it muff pay an interest of ti ,577,490 livres (n) BUT let us now take cur leave of war. Let us consider by what means the nations, who have divided the great Archipelago of America, that has been the origin of so many quarrels and negociations, and has given rise to so many reflections, have been able to raise it to pitch of of opulence, that may, without exaggeration, be considered as the first cause of all the great events that at present disturb the peace of the globe.,(1) 70,747,558/. 17s. 6d. (a) 145,687,50o1. (U) 4,881,5i15. 3. d.,END OF THE TENTH BOOK.,BOOK
BOOK XI.,BOOK XI. The Europeans go into Africa to purchases saves to cultivate the Caribbees. The manner of conducing tis species of coin mtrce. Produce accruing frown the labour of the /lavs. CERTAIN restless fugitives, the greatest part of whom had either been disgraced by the laws of their country or ruined by their own debaucheries; in this fate of desperation, formed a design of attacking Spanish or Portuguese ships that were richly laden with the spoils of the new world. Some desert islAnds, whose situation insured success to these piracies, served at first for a place of ren devout to these robbers, and on became their country. Habituated to murder, they meditated the massacre of a plain and unsuspecting people, who had received and treated them with humanity; and the civilized nations, of which these Buccaneers were the refuse, adopted this execrable scheme without hesitation; which was immediately put in execution. It then became necessary to consider what advantages might accrue from so many en enormities. Gold and silver, which were frill looked upon as the sole valuable productions to be derived from America had either never existed in several of these new ac-requisitions,
questions, or not in sufficient quantities to expel any B 0 OK,xI. considerable emoluments from working the mines. Certain . speculative men, less blinded by their prejudices than the multitude generally are, imagined, that a soil and climate, so totally different from ours, might either furnish us with commodities, to which we were strangers, or which we were obliged to purchase at an exorbitant price: they, therefore, determined to apply themselves to the culture of them. There were some obstacles, apparently insurmountable to the execution of this plan. The ancient inhabitants of the country were now entirely destroyed, and had they not been so, the weakness of their constitutions their habits of ease and indolence, and invincible aversion from labour, would scarcely have rendered them fit instruments to execute the designs of their oppressors. These barbarians too, born in a temperate clime, could not support the irksome toils of agriculture, under a burn ing and unwholesome sky. Self-interest, ever fruitful in: expedients, devised the plan of seeking cultivators in Africa, a country in which the abominable and inhuman custom of selling its inhabitants hath ever prevailed. AFRICA is an immense region, connected to Asia by a The Euro narrow neck of land of twenty leagues, called the with means go,nto Arius of Suez. This natural and political boundary tota, in the ocean, muff sooner or later break down, by that ten each of dcncy it is observed to have of forming gulphs and straits eastward. This great peninsula, cut by the equator into two unequal parts, forms an irregular triangle, one of whose sides fronts the east, the other the north, and the third the weft. THE eastern side, which extends to Suez, as far as the Opinions Cape of Good Hope, is washed by the Red ea and the concerning ocean. The interior parts of the country are but little coast of known, and what is known, can neither excite the mer Africa.,cenary
-O O K canary views of the trader, the curiosity of the traveller, XI,nor the humanity of the philosopher Even the missionaries, after having made some progress il there countries, especially in Abyssinia, totally discouraged by the treatment they met with, have abandoned this people to their in constancy and perfidy. The coasts are in general only dreadful rocks, or waste of dryad burning sand. Those portions, which are fit for cultivation, are parcelled out among the natives ofthe country, the Arabs, the Portuguese and the Dutch. Their commerce, which consists only in a little ivory or gold, and some slaves, is connected with the trade of the Earl-Indies. Opinions THE northern side, which extends from the isthmus of concerning Suez to the straits of Gibraltar, is bounded by the Me the nr ther coat mediterranean. On this side, nine hundred leagues of coat of Africa. are occupied by Egypt, and by the country, which has,for several centuries been known by the name of Bar ban'. EGYPT, which was the nursery of arts and sciences, of commerce and government, offers nothing that can re call to our remembrance the idea of its former greatness. Bending under the yoke despotism, which the ignorance and superstition of the Turks have imposed on her, the only intercourse ie fe seems to have with foreign nations, by the ports of Damietta and of Alexandria, serves only to render them witnesses of her total declension and ruin, THE fate of ancient Lydia, now Barbary, is no less wonderful. The early periods of this extensive country are involved in the greatest obscurity. The cloud began to be dispelled at the arrival of the Carthaginianss. These merchants, crr.ginly of Phoenician extraction, about an hundred .nd thirty-seven years before the foundation cf Rome, built a city, whole territory, at first, very li mitted, in proofs of til.c, extended to all that country,,known
known by the name of the kingdom of Tunis, and as B o K,XI tervards much further. Spain, and the greatest part of the islands in the Mediterranean, sell under its domi non. Man other kingdoms must manifestly have served to aggrandise this enormous power, when her ambitious views interfered with those of Rome. At the time of this dreadful collision, a war between these two nations was infantry kindled, so obstinate and violent, that it was easy to foresee it would not terminate, but in the utter destruction of the one or the other. That state, which was now in the height of its republican and pa critic principles, after the most skilful and the most stubborn engagements, obtained a decisive superiority over that which was corrupted by its riches. The com mercia people became the saves of the warlike power. The conquerors maintained themselves in the possession of their conquests, till about the middle of the fifth century. The Vandals, then hurried on by their original impetuosity beyond the limits of Spain, of which they were masters, passed the pillars of Hercules, and, like an inundation, diffused themselves over the country of Lydia. These barbarians would certainly have pre served the advantages they had acquired by their irruptions if they had kept up that military spirit which their king, Genseric, had inspired them with. But with this barbarian, who was not destitute of genius, this spirit became extina; military dis ipline was relaxed, and the government which rested only on this basis, was over thrown. Belisarius surprized there people in this con fusion, extirpated them, and re-established the empire in its ancient privileges. But this revolution was only mo nectary. Great men, who can form and bring to ma purity a rising nation, cannot impart youth and vigour to ancient and decayed people.,IN
BOO K IN the seventh century, the Saracens, formidable by,. their institutions and their success, armed with the sword and with the coran, obliged the Romans, weakened by their divisions, to repass the seas, and augmented that vas dominion Mohammed had just founded with so much glory, with the accession of the northern part of Africa. The Caliphs lieutenants afterwards stripped their masters of the rich spoils, and reached the provinces, committed to their care, into independent itates.,SUCH was the state of affairs at the beginning of the sixteenth century, when the Mohammedanss of Algiers, who were afraid of falling under the yoke of Spain, in cited the Turks to their assistance. The Porte sent Bar baroniae, who at first protected, but in the end enslaved them. The Baifas who succeeded him, and were the governors of Tunis and Tripoli, both conquered and op prefixed cities, exercised a tyranny, which very fortunately was carried to such an height, that from its excess it mull necessarily terminate in its own destruction; and the same violent measures that supported it, were exerted in de shivering the people from it. One circumstance, how ever, is worthy of observation, that the three states adopted the same kind of government, which is a species of aristocracy. The chief, who under the title of Dey, governs the republic, is elected by the soldiery, which is always Turkish, and constitutes the only nobility of the country. These elections are seldom made by the fol fiery without bloodshed, and it is a common thing for a man, who has been elected in the midst of riot and slaughter, to be afterwards assassinated by a restless sac tion, who design either to secure that distinction for them selves, or to sell it for their advancement. The empire es Morocco, which has successively swallowed up the kingdoms of Fez, of Toilet, and of Sus, because it is,hereditary
hereditary in a national family, is, however, subjected to B 0 0K the same revolutions. The enormities of the princes and X the people are the primary cause of this instability. THE interior parts of Barbary are full of Arabs, who are what men n the primitive ages mus have been, Shepherds in a wandering and unsettled Fate. Customs, which are disgustful to our effeminate manners, are con filtered by them either as great or simple, resulting from the dictates of nature. When the most illustrious among the Arabians intend to receive a stranger with marks of divination, they go themselves in search of the choicest lamb of their flocks, flay it with their own hands, and like the patriarchs of Moses, or the heroes of Homer, cut it in pieces, whilst their wives are occupied in the other pre operations of the festival. The children of the most di tfinguilhed men among them, even of Scheiks and Emirs, tend the family flocks. The boys and girls have no other employment during their tender years. THESE are not the happy manners of those who live in towns or inhabit the lea-shore. Equally averse from the toils of agriculture and from the more sedentary arts, they are become pirates. At first, they contented them selves with ravaging the vast and fertile plains of Spain. They surprised in their beds the indolent inhabitants of the rich countries of Valencia, Granada and Andalusia, and carried them off for slaves. Afterwards disdaining the booty they acquired from countries, they had formerly cultivated, they built large vessels, and insulted the flag of all nations. These naval equipments, which were gradually improved into little squadrons, received an an null accession, by means of the avarice of great numbers of christians, who furnished the people of Barbary with materials for their armaments, who interested themselves in their cruises, and who sometimes even ventured to direR,their
BO 0 K their operations. These pirates reduced the greater, powers of Europe to the disgrace of making them annual presents, which, under whatever name they are disguised, are in reality a tribute. They have sometimes been pu nailed and humbled; but their robberies have never been totally suppressed. Charles the 5th, tho' he was always busy in exciting commotions during the age in which he lived, yet he would sometimes penetrate into futurity by that foresight which atones, in one degree, for the faults of a turbulent spirit, saw what the people of Barbary might one day become. Disdaining to enter into any kind of treaty with them, he formed the generous plan of de straying them. The rivalry of Francis the it made his project miscarry ; and once his time history has it not in her power to celebrate any prince for resuming the idea of so glorious an enterprize, the execution of which would be attended with no great difficulty. THE inhabitants of Barbary groan under a yoke of :which they are impatient. The tyrant of Morocco in silently sports with the liberties and lives of his subject. This despotic sovereign, an executioner in the striae sense of the word, every day exposes on the walls of his palace, or his capital, the heads of the innocent or the guilty whom he has slaughtered with his own hand. Al piers, Tunis, and Tripoli, though exempt from a like ferocity, are, however, under a every subjection. Slaves to fifteen or twenty thousand Turks, who have been chosen out from among the dregs of the Ottoman en ,pire, they become in a hundred different ways the vic tims of this brutal soldiery. An authority resting on o tottering a. basis, cannot possibly be firmly established, and might be easily subverted. No foreign succour would retard its fall for a moment. The only power that might be speed of wishing its,preservation,
preservation, namely the Ottoman empire, is not so highly B O O K,XI. gratified with the vain title of protector, which they con ser on it, as to interest itself warmly in their safety. All endeavours to excite them to interfere, by submissions, which particular circumstances might, probably, extort from these robbers, would certainly be ineffectual. The wishes of the Porte would not impart strength. For there two centuries paP, the Porte have no navy, and their military power is continually decaying. BUT to what nation is the glory reserved of breaking those fetters which Africa is thus insensibly preparing for us, and of removing those terrors, which are so formidable to navigation ? No one nation alone can attempt it perhaps, if itdid, the jealousy of the rest would throw secret obstacles in its way. This'muft, therefore, be the work of a general combination. All the maritime powers muff concur in the execution of a design, in which all are equally interested. These flares, which every thing invites to mutual alliance, to mutual good-will, to mutual defence, ought to be weary of the calamities which they reciprocally bring upon each other. After having so frequently waited for their mutual destruction, letter at length take paris for their preservation. War for once at least, will then become useful and suit. One may venture to assert, that such a war would be of no long continuance, if it were conducted with skill and unanimity. Each member of the confederacy, attacking at the same time the enemy it had to reduce, would ex prince buta weak resistance, or, perhaps, none. The people of Barbary, being thus suddenly deprived of all power of defending themselves, would undoubtedly abandon their governors, and relinquish the government by which they have been constantly oppressed. Perhaps this noblest and greatest of enterprises would colt Europeans - VOL. III. I blood
B 0 0 K blood and treasure, than the mols trivial of thole quarrels XI, with which it is continually agitated.,No one would be o unjust as to suppose, that the politicians, who should form this plan, would confine their ambition to the filling up of roads, demolishing of forts, and ravaging of coasts. Such narrow notions would be inconsistent with the present improvements of reason. The countries subdued, would remain to the conquerors, and each of the allies would acquire posses sons, proportionate to the assistance they had given to the common cause. These conquests would become so much the more secure, as the happiness of the vanquished would be the consequence of them. This race of pirates, there sea monsters, would be changed into men by salutary laws, and examples of humanity. The progress they would gradually make, by the knowledge we should im part to them, would in time dispel that fanaticism which ignorance and misery have kept up in their minds. They would ever recollect with gratitude the memorable era which had brought us to their shores. WE should then no longer see a country uncultivated, which was formerly so fertile. Corn and various fruits would soon cover this immense tract of land. Their commodities would be bartered for the productions of our industry and of our manufactures. European traders fettled in Africa, would become the factors of this trade, which would prove of mutual advantage to both countries. A communication so natural, between op porte coasts, and between people who have a necessary intercourse with each other, would, as it were, extend the boundaries of the world. This new kind of conquer, which readily occurs to the mind, would amply com senate for those, which during so many centuries, have contributed to the distress of mankind.,THr
THE jealousy of the great maritime powers, who have B 0 0 K obflllatcly reseated all expedients to re-establish tranquility . on our seas, hath been the chief impediment to so im portant a revolution. The hope of checking the industry of every weak flare, hath accumrfomcd them to wish, that these piracies of the people of Barbary should continue, and hath even induced them to encourage these plunders. This is an enormity, the ignominy of which they would never have incurred, if their understanding had equalled their mercenary views. All nations would certainly profit from this happy change; but the greatest advantages would in falsity redound to the maritime states, in proportion to their power. Their situation, the safety of their navigation the greatness of their capital, and a hundred other means, would secure them this superiority. They are constantly complaining of the shackles which na national envy, the folly of restraints and prohibitions, and the confined idea of exclusive traffic have imposed upon their activity. The people gradually become as much strangers to one another as they were in the barbarous ages. The void, which this want of communication necessarily occasions, would be filled up; if Africa were brought to have wants, and resources to satisfy them. The spirit of commerce would have a new career opened to its exertion. HOWEVER, if the reduction and subjection of Barbary would not become a source of happiness for them as well as for ourselves; if we are resolved not to treat them as brethren; if we wish not to consider them as our friends; if we must keep up and perpetuate slavery and poverty amongst them; if fanaticism can still renew those detestable cru fades, which philosophy too late hath consigned to the in indignation of all ages; if Africa mus at last become the scene of our cruelties, as Asia and America have been,,12 and
B 0 0 K and still are; may the project which humanity hath now dictated to us, for the good of our fellow-creatures, be buried in perpetual oblivion ! Let us remain in our ports. It is indifferent, whether they be Christians or Musulman who sussex. Man is the only object worthy to interest man. Do we hope to accustom the Africans to commerce, by the flow and gentle expedients of treaties, which must often be renewed, ad purchased as often ? To be as sured of the contrary, it is only necessary to take a transient view of the present state of the Europeans with re gard to these people the French have never trafficked with Morocco. They have always been in a state of war with it. The Englifa, Dutch, and Swedes, disgusted by the repeated insults they have received, never appear there but occasionally The whole commerce is almost entirely in the hands of Denmark, which hath committed it to a com any, formed upon a capital of five hundred (hares of five hundred crowns each.(s) Its establishment was in 1755, and it is to continue forty years. It imports Englifa cloth, silver tissues, and silks; comeliness, iron, tar, and sulphur; and brings in exchange, copper, gums, wool, wax, and leather. These exchanges are made at Sally, Tetuan, Mongador, Asia, and Santa-Cruz. One may judge of the extent of this commerce by the profits of the custom houses, which are let for 255,000 livres.(p) THE trade of Algiers is not so considerable. The Englifa, French, and Jews of Leghorn, arc rivals in it. The two first send in their own vessels, and the last under a neutral flag, cloth, spice, paper, hardware, coffee, far, linens, alum, indigo, cochineal; and receive in exchange, wool, wax, feathers, leather, oil, and several goods arising from captures. The returns, though fourth (c) 6rL/ r:l. óU. (fs) 11,15'/. 51.
fourth more than the out-goings, do not annually exceed B 0 0 I a million of livres.(q) France has one half, and her ri vals nearly divide the rest. INDEPENDENT of this commerce, which is totally carried on by the metropolis, there is some business done at Callus, Bona, and Collou, three other ports of the republic. This trade would have been extended and im proved, if it had not been subjected to a monopoly and to a foreign one. Ancient treaties, which have been pretty commonly observed, have yielded this vast coal to an exclusive company established at Marseilles. Its capital is twelve hundred thousand livres,(r) and its annual traffic in merchandize, which may amount to eight or nine hundred thousands) employs thirty or forty hips. It purchases corn, wool, coal, and leather, with specie. TUNIS may receive two millions) in foreign merchandize and sell its own for two millions five hundred thou sand livres.(u) The French, in conducting this traffic, two thirds of the profit, the Tuscan the rest. This commerce is supported and carried on nearly in the same manner as every traffic in other states of Barbary. THE trade that is carried on in Tripoli is very con miserable. The country is so wretched, that nothing can be imported thither but ime hardware of little value. The exports of wool, senna, ashes, wax, and pulse, are laree worth notice. But though this coal is so little advantageous to commerce, by the supplies it can fur nisi; and though it is so prejudicial to it by the piracies that are exercised there, the western coast of Africa fully compensates these loses by the benefits it procures to the American colonies. Climate of,the wetsem THE coast of this immense country extends from the coat of straits of Gibraltar to the Cape of Good Hope. All its Africa, inhabitants are black. The cause of this singularity has the names 3 been of thecoaft (?) 43,7501. () 5,500/. () About 37,ooo1. on an average. f Guinea. (:) 87,5cl. (,) i'g,275.
B O K been the subject of much inquiry, which hath given rise tota variety of systems Some have absurdly supposed, that the negroes being the descendents of Cain, have had this mark of infamy stamped upon them, as a punishments the fratricide of their ancestor. If it were so, it mute be allowed, that his posterity have made a severe atone ment for his crime; and that the descendents of the pa civic Abel, have thoroughly avenged the blood of their innocent father but waving the discussion of such ridiculous fancies, let us inquire whether it is possible that the negroes hould derive their colour from the climate they inhabit Some philosophers and eminent naturalists are of this opinion. There are no negroes, say they, but in the hottest countries., Their colour becomes darker ths nearer they approach to the equator. It becomes lighter or more bright at the very verge of the torrid zone. Ths whole human species in general contract whiteness from the snow, and grow tanned in the fun. One fees various hades from white to black, and from black to white marked out as it were by the parallel degrees which cu the earth from the equator to the poles. If the zones imagined by the inventors of the sphere, were represented by real bands, one might perceive the jetty colour of the natives insensibly decrease to the right and left as far a the two tropics from thence the brown colour of the in habitants grow paler and brighter to the polar circles, by Hades of white, becoming more and more brilliant. Bu it is somewhat remarkable, that nature, which hath la wished the brightness of the molt beautiful colours on th skin and plumage of animals, and on vegetables and me talk, hould, properly speaking, have left men without colour, since black and white are nothing but the begin king and absence of all colours.,W.VAT
WHATEVER be the original and radical cause of that B 0 0 K,XI variety of complexion in tie human species, it is agreed, , that this complexion is owing to a gelatinous substance that is lodged between the cuticle and the kin. This substance is blackish in negroes, brown in olive coloured or swarthy people, white in Europeans, and diversified with reddish spots in people who have extremely light or red hair. ANATOMY hath discovered, that in negroes the sub stance of the brain is blackish, that the pineal gland is entirely black, and that their blood is of a much deeper red than that of white people. Their skin is always hot ter, and their pulse quicker. The passions, therefore, of fear and love, are carried to excess among these people; and this is the reason why they are more effeminate, more indolent, more weak, and unhappily more fit for slavery. Besides, their intellectual faculties being nearly exhausted, by the excesses of sensual pleasures, they have neither memory nor understanding to supply by art the deficiency of their strength. Their hair, it is said, is curled, be cause, having to penetrate through a net-work of a more dense and tenacious substance, it becomes twisted and cannot be lengthened out. The sweat of the negroes diffuses a firing and disagreeable odour, because it is im impregnated with that thick and rancid grease which hath been long lodged, and slowly oozes out between the cu title and the kin. This substance is so palpable, that one may distinguish in it with a microscope a sediment formed in little blackifhglobules. Hence the perspiration) of a negroes, when it is copious, tinges the linen cloth which wipes it off. One of the inconveniences of this black colour, an emblem of the night which confounds all objects, is, that the negroes have been obliged, in order to be known at a distance, to flail themselves,,I 4 and
B o o K and mark their skin with different colours. This custom XI. is general, especially among the wandering tribes of this people. As we find it, however, established among the savages of Tartary and Canada, it may be doubtful whether the practice does not rather arise from their roving way of life, than from the colour of their complexion anatomy hath gone further, and discovered the origin of the blackness of negroes in the source of genera tion. Nothing more it should seem would be necessary in order to prove, that negroes are a particular species of men. For if any thing discriminates the species, or the classes in each species, it is certainly the difference of the semen. The colour of the negroes, is, therefore, falsely supposed to be owing to the climate, since in Africa, under the lame parallels, the eastern coast has no ne. goes, and even produces white people, and notwithstanding the heat and soil of it, no negroes have beer been born in that country. THOUGH it should be allowed, that the western coast of Africa is the hottest region of the whole globe, the only inference to be deduced from this, would be, that that there are climates proper only to certain species, or certain species adapted to particular climates ; but not that the difference of climates could change the same species from white to black. The fun has not the power of al tearing and modifying the germina of reproduction. White people never become black in Africa, nor negroes white in America. An union indeed between the sexes of these two species, produces the meshes, who partake equally of the colour, features, and complexion of both. If man was originally white, it must be supposed, that having been created nearer to the frigid than to the torrid zone, he peopled the earth successively from the poles to the equator: while, on the contrary, the fertility of the,a,ks
"lobes between the tropics, is a presumption, that it has B o OK,XI. bien peopled from the equator to the poles. I The climate inhabited by the negroes, exhibits no va rations but such as may be occasioned by sands or mo raffles. The almost insupportable heat of their days, is succeeded by very cool and refreshing nights, with this difference only, that they are less so in the rainy seasons than in the times of drought. The dew, less profuse un der a cloudy ky than under a serene horizon, is un undoubtedly the cause of this singularity. FROM the frontiers of the empire of Morocco, as far Soil of as Senegal, the land is totally barren. Some Arabs, the Guinea descendents of those who conquered Barbary, and some Moors, the ancient inhabitants of the country lead a miserable wandering life amidst those burning and dry sands, which, at length, are lost in the vail solitudes of Sahara. THE banks of the Niger, Gambia, and Sierra Leona, and those of some less considerable rivers, which, in that long space that intervenes between these principal ri vers, exhibit proofs of the greatest fertility. Maize grows there without much cultivation, as well as all the fruits that are natural to America; and the care of flocks constitutes almost the sole employment of the inhabitants. They prefer mare's milk, which is their principal nourishment and travel but little; because they have no wants to induce them to leave their country. THE inhabitants of Cape Monte, environed on every side by sands, form a nation entirely separated from the rest of Africa. In the rice of their marshes consists all their nourishment and their sole riches. Of this they sell a small quantity to the Europeans, for which they re clive in exchange brandy and hard-ware.,FROM
B o o K FROM the Cape of Palmas to the river of Volta, the inhabitants are traders and husbandmen. They are hus bondmen, because their land, though stony, abundantly requites the necessary labour and expence of clearing it. They are traders, because they have behind them na tions which furnish them with gold, copper, ivory, flares, and because nothing obstructs a continued communication between the people of the country and those of the coast. It is the sole country in Africa, where, in a long space, there are no desarts or deep rivers, to obstruct the traveller, and where water and the means of subsistence may be found BETWEEN the river of Volta and the river of Calvary, the coast is flat, fertile, populous and cultivated. 'his is not the condition of the country which extends from Calvary to Gabon. Almost totally covered with thick forests, producing little fruit and no corn, it may be laid to be rather inhabited by wild hearts than by men. Though the rains are there very frequent and copious, as they must be under the Equator, the land is so sandy, that immediately after the showers are fallen, there re mains not the least appearance of moisture. To the south of the Line, and as far as Zaire, the coast presents an agreeable prospect. Low at its be ginning, it gradually riles, and exhibits a scene of cul treated fields, intermixed with woods, always verdant, and of meadows covered with palm-trees. FROM Zaire to Coanza, and still farther, the coat is in general high and craggy. In the interior parts of this country is an elevated plain, the soil of which is com posed of a large, thick and fertile sand.,A little beyond Coanza, a barren region intervenes, of above two hundred leagues extent, which is terminated bey the country of the Hottentots. In this long space,,there
there are no inhabitants known, except the Cibber, B o0 1,X. - with whom no intercourse is kept up. THE varieties, observable on the shores of the weft of Africa, do not prevent them from enjoying a very rare, and, perhaps, a singular advantage. On this imenfr coals, thole tremendous rocks are no where seen, which are so alarming to the navigator. The sea is universally calm, the wind regular, and the anchorage secure. Se vernal excellent havens are here to be met with, where the manner unmolested may pursue the labours which the resitting of large ships require. THE winds and currents, during fix months of the year, from April to November, have nearly the same di reason. To the south of the line, the southeast wind predominates, and the direction of the currents is to wards the north-east. During the fix other months, storms, by intervals, change the direction of the wind, but it no longer blows with the same violence : the spring of the air seems to be relaxed. The cause of this change appears to influence the direction of the currents: to the north of the line, they tend to the south-west, beyond the line to the south. VAGUE conjectures can only be formed with regard to Govern every thing which respect the interior parts of Africa ,.n'r 'ph but it is a sad, well authenticated, that throughout the religion, whole extent of the coast the government is arbitrary. "rd man-,ners of the Whether the despotic sovereign ascends the throne bycoaft of right of birth, or by election, the people have no other Guinea law but his will. BUT what will seem extraordinary to the inhabitants of Europe, where the great number of hereditary monarchies obstruct the tranquility of elective governments, and the prosperity of all free fates, is, that, in Africa, the countries which are the least liable to revolutions, are,those,
B o O K those, which have preferred the right selecting their chiefs,. This is usually an old man, whose wisdom is generally known. 'The manner, in which this choice is made, is very simple; but it is only suited to very finally states. In three days the people, by mutual content, meet at the houses that citizen who appears to them the most proper person to be their sovereign. If the suffrages are divided, he who has obtained the greatest number of them, names on the fourth day one of those who have had fewer voices than himself. Every freeman hath a right to vote. There are even some tribes where the women enjoy this privilege. SUCH is, excepting the hereditary kingdoms of Benin and Jude, the formation of that little group of states which are to the north of the Line. To the south we meet with Mayumba and Congo, where chiefs are ad mitted among the ministers of religion ; and with the empires of Loango and Congo. where the crown is per petal in the male line, by the female side, that is, the eldest son of the king's eldest sister inherits the throne, when it becomes vacant. These people believe, that a child is much more certainly the son of his mother, than of the man whom he marries: they trust rather to the time of delivery which they see, than to that of conception of which they are not witnesses these nations live in a total ignorance of that art so reared among us, under the name of politics. They do not, however, neglea to observe some of its forma cities and decorum. The custom of sending embassies is familiar to them, whether to solicit aid against a powerful enemy, or to request a mediator in their differences, or to congratulate others upon their successes, upon a birth, or a shower after a great drought. The envoy muff ne ver flay longer than a day at the place of his miflion,nor
nor travel during the night in the states of a foreign B O O K,XI. prince. He is preceded by a drum, which announces from afar his character, and he is accompanied by five or fix friends. In those places, where he flops to refresh him self, he is received with respect; but he cannot depart before the fun rises, and without the ceremony of his host assembling some persons to witness that no accident hath happened to him. In other repeat, they are strangers to any negotiations that are in the leafs com plicated. They never enter into any stipulations forth past, nor for the future; but confine themselves wholly to the present. Hence we may conclude, that these na tions cannot have regular or fettled connexions with the other parts of the globe. THEIR f;ftcm of war is as little complicated as their politics. Neither of the governments retain troops in pay. Every free man is by condition a soldier. All take up arms to guard their frontiers, or to make excursions in quels of booty. The officers are chosen by the soldiers, and the choice is confirmed by the prince. The army marches, and most frequently the hostilities, which are begun in the morning, are terminated in the evening. At leat, the incursion never continues for any length of time; forms they have no magazines, the want of sub science obliges them to retire. It would prove a great misfortune to these people, if they were acquainted with the art of keeping the field fifteen days together. THE desire of extending their territories is not the cause of the disturbances which frequently-throw these countries into confusion. An insult committed in a cere mony, a clandestine or violent robbery, the rape of a daughter; there are the ordinary occasions of a war. The day after the battle, each side redeems their respect tiveprifoners. They are exchanged for merchandise, or,for
O OK for slaves. No portion of the territory is ever ceded, · t the whole entirely belongs to the community, whose chief fixes the extent which every person is to cultivate, in order to reap the fruits of it.,THE manner of terminating differences is not merely that of little fates, whose chiefs are too wise to aspire after enlarging their dominions, and too much advanced in years not to be fond of peace. Great empires are ob lived to conform to there principles with neighbours much weaker than themselves. The sovereign has never any standing militia, and though he disposes at pleasure of the lives of the governors of his provinces, he prescribes them nodules of administration. These are petty princes who for fear of being suffered of ambition and punish ed with death, live in concord with the elective colo nies which surround them. Unanimity between the more considerable powers and the Icfler states, is pre served as much by the immense authority the prince hath over his fubjeas, as by the impossibility there is of his exerting it as he pleases. He can shrike but one blow at once. He may, indeed, give orders that his lieutenant should be assassinated, and the whole province will strangle him at his command; but were he to order all the inhabitants of a province toe put to death, no one would obey him; and his will would not suffice to arm another province against that. His power against individuals is unlimited; but he can do very little against the whole collective body. ANOTHER reason which prevents small states from be ing enslaved by great ones, is, that these people annex no idea to the glory of conquests. The only person, who appears to have been animated with it, was a slave broker, who, from his infancy, had frequented the Eu rope vessels, and who, in his riper years, had made voyage
voyage to Portugal. Every thing he saw and heard, fired 0 0 1i his imagination and taught him that a great name was frequently acquired by being the cause of great calami ties. At his return into his country, he felt himself greatly humiliated at being obliged to obey people less enlightened than himself. His intrigues railed him to the dignity of chief of the Canis, and he prevailed on them to take up arms against their neighbours. Nothing could oppose his valour, and his dominion extended over more than an hundred leagues of coat, of which Anam bou was the center. At his death no body dared to succeed him: and all the supports of his authority ceasing at once, every thing resumed its former situation THE christian and Mohammedan religion seem to have taken possession of the two extremities of that part of the weft of Africa, which is frequented by the Europe ans. The mulfelmen of Barbary have carried theirre- litigious system to the people of the Cape de Verd islands, who have extended it still farther. In proportion as these religious opinions have been at a distance from their source, they have undergone so great an alteration, that each kingdom, each village, each family maintained a different system. Excepting circumcision, which is uni versal, one would hardly imagine these people professed the same worship. This system does not penetrate be yond the cape of Monta, whose inhabitants have no communication with their neighbours. WHAT the Arabs had done to the north of the Line, for the Coran, the Portuguese afterwards did to the fourth for the gospel. Towards the end of the fifteenth century, they established it from the country of Benguela to Zara. A mode worship, which offered sure and easy means for the expiation of all crimes was perfectly agreeable to the,tafite
B 0O K taste of nations, whose religion did not afford them such Uncomfortable prospers. If it was afterwards proscribed in several states it was owing to the excesses of those who propagated it, which drew upon it this disgrace. It hath even been totally disguised in the countries where it has been preserved ; a few trifling ce ceremonies are the only remains of it.,THE coasts which are in the center between there have preserved some local superstitions, whose origin must be very ancient. They consist in the worship of that innumerable multitude of divinities or Fetiches, which every person makes after his own fancy and for his own use, in the belief of auguries, trials by fire and boiling water, and in the power of Gris-Gris. There are some super editions more dangerous, I mean that blind confidence which they repose in the priests who are the ministers and promoters of them; there have the sacred deposit of the national traditions: and pretend to prophecy. The correspondence which they are supposed to hold with the evil spirit makes them regarded as the supreme arbiters of the barrenness and fertility of the country. On this account the first fruits are always offered to them. All their other errors have a social tendency, and conspire to render man more humane and peaceable the different religions, which are spread through Africa, have not changed the manner of living; because the influence of the climate there is so predominant, that opinions have but litle effect upon their manners. The houses are always built of the branches of the palm-tree, most commonly of earth and covered with straw, osiers, or reeds. Their furniture consists solely of baskets, earthen pots, mats, which serve as beds, and calabashes of which all their utensils are made. A girdle round the loins is their only apparel. They live on game, fish, fruit, rice, or on bread made of maize, ill-baked. Their,drink
drink is the wine of the Palm-tree. Arts are unknown B 0 0 K,XI. amongst them. All their labours are confined to certain rustic employments. Scarce one hundredth part of their country is cultivated, and that in a very wretched man her, either by poor people, or by slaves, who, from their indolence and condition, have the greatest aversion from labour. THERE is a greater variety in their manners than in their wants. On the banks of the Niger, the women are generally handsome, if beauty confess ill symmetry of proportion and not in colour. Modest, affable and faithful, an air of innocence appears in their looks, and their language is an indication of their bashfulness. The names of Ilia, Calypso, Fanny, Z.lma, which seem to be names of pleasure, are pronounced with an in flection of voice, of the softness and sweetness of which our organs are not susceptible. The men are of a proper size, their skin is as black as ebony, and their features and countenances pleating. The habit of taming horses and hunting wild bears gives them an air of dignity. They do not easily put up with an affront, but the exam ple of those animals they have reared, inspires them with boundless gratitude for a master who treats them with in dulgence. It is impossible to find servants more attentive, more sober, and who have stronger attachments; but they do not make good husbandmen; because their body is not habituated to sloop and to bend towards the ground, in order to clear it. THE complexion of the Africans degenerates towards :he east. The people of this climate are strong, but short. They have an air of strength, which is denoted )y firm muscles; and the features of their faces are spread )ut, and have no cxpreflioii. The figures impressed in their foreheads and on their cheeks increase their na. VoL. III, K pray
O 0 K tural deformity. An ungrateful soil, which is not improve X., able by culture, hath forced them to have recourse polishing, tho' the ea, which is almost impracticable by means of a bar that runs along the coast, seems to divert them from it. Thus repulsed, as it were, by the elements, they have fought for aid among adjacent nations more favoured by nature; from whom they have derived their subsistence by selling them silt. A spirit of traffic hath been diffused among them since the arrival of the Euro means; because ideas are unfolded in all men in proportion to the variety of objects that are presented to them; and because more combinations are necessary tobartera flare for several forts of merchandise, than to ell a bushel of salt. Besides-though they are well adapted to all em employments where strength only is required, yet they are unfit for the internal duties of domestic life. This con edition of life is repugnant to their customs, according to which they are paid separately for every thing they do. And, indeed, the reciprocation of daily labour and daily recompence is, perhaps, one of the bell incentives to in duffy among all men. The wives of these mercantile negroes share all their labours except that of filing. They have neither the amiableness, n.odefly, discretion nor beauty of the women of the Niger, and they appear to have less sensibility. In comparing the two nations one would be tempted to imagine, that one is te lowest class of people in a posed and civilized city, and that the other hath enjoyed the advantages of a superior education. Their language strongly indicates their character. The accents of the one have an extreme sweetness, those of tete other, are harsh and dry ike the soil they inhabit. Their vivacity, even in pleasures, resembles the furious transports of anger.,Be-
Beyond the river volta, in Benin, and in the other count 0 0 K times, known under the general name of the golden coat, X the people have a smooth skin, and of a dark black colour, their teeth are beautiful; they are sofa middling nature, but well-shaped, and they have a bashful countenance. Their faces tho' agreeable enough would be much more so, if the women were not used to fear them, and the men to burn their foreheads. The basis of their creed is a metempsychosis of a peculiar kind: they believe, that in what ever place they remove to, or wherever they are transport ed, they hall return after their death, whether caused by the laws of nature or by their own hands, to their own country. This condition constitutes their happiness; because they consider their country as the most delightful abode in the universe. This pleasing error conduces to humanize them. Foreigners, who reside in tis climate, are treated with respectful civility, from a persuasion that they are come there to receive the recompence due to their conduct. This people have a disposition to chear fulness not observable in the neighbouring nations; they are inclined to labour, have a ready conception, a soli city of judgment, principles of equity, seldom alter ed by circumstances, and a great facility of adapting themselves to foreign manners. They are tenacious of their commercial customs, even when they are not advantageous to them. The method of trafficking with them was, for a long time, the same that had formerly obtained among them. The first vessel that landed finished its traffic before another would enter upon theirs. Each had its turn. The price fixed for one, was the same for all. It is but very lately that the nation hath been determined to avail itself of the advantages it might derive from the number of European nations frequenting its ports.,K 2 Tir
B O O K THE people situated between the Line and Zaire,,have all a great resemblance to one another. They are u ell made. Their bodies are less robust than the of the inhabitants to the north of the equator; and though there are some marks on their faces, one never perceives any of those far which are so shocking at first fight. Their food is simple, and their life frugal. They love case and never labour beyond their strength. Their feasts are accompanied with military sports, which revive the idea of our ancient tournaments; with this difference, that in Europe they constituted the exercises of a war like nation, whereas in Africa they are the amusements of a timid people. The women are not admitted to there public diversions. Assembled together in certain houses they spend the day in private, and no men are ever admit ted into their society. Thejealoufy of divination is the strongest passion of there people, who are naturally peace able. A certain degree of ceremony obtains both at the court of princes and in private life. Upon the most tri vial occurrences, they fly to their friends either to con gratulate them or to condole with them. A marriage oc passions visiting for three months. The funeral obsequies of a person of distinction continue sometimes two years. Those who were connected to him, in any degree, carry his remains about through the several provinces. The crowd gathers as they proceed and no person departs, till the corpse is deposited in the tomb, with all the demon fictions of the deepest sorrow. So determined a taste for ceremony hath proved favourable to superstition, and superstition hath promoted a spirit of indolence. In these countries, the earth sufficiently fertile, without requiring much labour, is oily cultivated by women, whom servitude or penury condemn to this drudger. Men flares, or free men if poor, are employed in hunting and sith-sing,
;ng, or are defined to augment the retinue of the great. B o O K,XI. There is in this nation in general less equality between the two sexes than is found among their neighbours. Birth and rank here impart to one women the right of choosing a husband, whom they keep in the moi extreme subjection. They have even the right, whenever they are dissatisfied with their choice, of condemning him to slavery; and it is to be imagined that the)' freely make use of this privilege, however humiliating it may be to the two sexes. For, what is that man, whom a woman can make her slave ? He is good neither for her, nor for himself. FRoM Zaire to the river of Coanza, the ancient customs still remain; but they are blended with a confused mixture of European manners, which arc not to be found elsewhere. It is probable that the Portuguese, who have large settlements in this country, and who were desirous of introducing the christian religion among them, had a greater intercourse with them than they had with other nations, who having only factories to the north of the line, have been employed in nothing but their com mere. Th: reader need not be told, that all we have related concerning the people of Guinea, ought only to be ap plied to that class which, in all countries, lamps the character of a nation. The inferior orders and laves are farther removed from this resemblance, in proportion as they are debased or degraded by their oc occupations or their conditions. However, the most discerning inquirers have observed, that the difference of conditions did not produce in this people varieties so di distinguishable as we find in the states which are situated between the Elb and the Tiber, which are nearly of the same extent of country as the Niger and the Coanza. The farther men depart from nature, the less muff they,K 3 reb
o OK resemble one another. The multiplicity of civil and,, political institutions necessarily throws into the moral character and into the natural habits, shades, which are unknown to societies less complicated. Besides, na ture being more powerful under the torrid than un der the temperate zone, does not permit the in fluence of morals to exert itself o strongly. Men there bear a greater similitude to one another, because they owe every thing to nature, and very little to art. In Europe, an extensive and diversified commerce, vary. ing and multiplying the enjoyments, the fortunes and several conditions of men, adds likewise to the differences which the create, the laws and the common prejudices have established among active and laborious nations. Tea Guinr.e- , trade has never been able to cause a Guinea. furthest aitera!:rn in the manners of its inhabitants.,It formerly confined of certain exchanges of salt and dried Efh, which were consumed by the nations remote from the coast. These gave in return stuffs made of a kind of thread, which vas only a woody substance, closely ad. herein. to the inner ide of the bark of a particular tree in that: c!irn)tcs. The air hardens it, and renders it t for e:crn kind of weaving. They make them up in bon nets of di-trent kinds, scarfs, aprons for their girdle, varying in nape according to the particular mode of each nation. The natural colour of the thread is a pale grey. The dew, which bleaches our flax, gives it a citron co lour, which rich people prefer. The black dye, gene rally used among the people, is extracted from the bark that makes this thread, by simple infusion in water. As this thread readily takes all colours, this hath induced them to form of it different figures of men, birds, and quadrupeds. The stuffs thus worked, serve t hang their,apart-
apartments with, to cover their feats, and for other kinds B 0 0 K,XI. of furniture. THE first Europeans, who frequented the western coats of Afiica, fixed a value on wax, ivory, and gum, which intrinsically they did not politics. I hey gave an elimination to gold, from which they drew at molt three thou sand marks a year. Their restless avarice, which has never been satisfied with this produce, made them frequently concert expedients to augment it. They flatter themselves, that their designs will loon be successful by the following scheme. IN the interior parts of Afiica, under the twelfth or thirteenth degree of north latitude, here is, says amo tern traveller, a pretty large country, known by the name of Bambuck. It is not subject to a particular king, but governed by village lords, called Trims. These hereditary and independent chiefs are all obliged to unite for the defence of the state, when it is either attacked as a community, or only in any one of its members. TiE territory of this :aristocratical state, is dry and barren. It produces neither maize, ree, nor vegetables. The insupportable heats it is subject to, proceed in part from its being surrounded by high mountains, which pre vent the winds from refreshing the air. The climate is as unwholeSome as it is d ilareeabie: vapours, which con finally ifiuc from the bowels of a soil replete with mi generals, render living there dangerous, especially to strangers. GOLD, which is abundant in this wretched country, had made it an objet worthy of notice: gold, which in the eyes of the covetous man, seems to compensate for all the evils of nature, tho' in reality it increases them all. This metal is so common in this country, that it is found almost indiscriminately every where. To obtain it, some-,K 4 times
B O O K times it is sufficient to scrape the surface of the earth, XI. X . that is clayish, light, and mixed with sand. When the,mine is very rich, it is dug only to the depth of a few feet, and never lower ; though it has been observed, that the lower they went, the more gold the soil afforded. The miners are too indolent to pursue a toil which con flantdv becomes more tedious, and too ignorant to pre vent the inconveniences it would attended with. Their negligence and their folly are in this instance so extraordinary that in washing the gold, in order to separate it from the earth, they only preserve the larger pieces, the light parts pass away with the water, which flows down an inclined plain the inhabitants of Bambuck do not work there mines at all times, nor is it left to them to do it when they please. They are obliged to wait till personal or public wants determine the Farms to grant this permission. 'Then it is proclaimed, all who are allowed to profit from them, meet at the appointed place. When their work is finished, a division is made. Half of the go! goes to the lord, and the remainder is equally distributed among the labourers. Those who want gold at any other time than that of the general digging, go in search of it in the beds of the rivers, where it is very common the French and English have successively cast an en pious eye on these real and imaginary riches. Sole thought they could be conveyed into tl:is country by the Niger, others by the Salem. Far from having succeeded in their attempts becoming matters of this country they have not yet ascertained its existence. The unuccefsfulnefs of past efforts hath redoubled the activity of sanguine minds: sensible and judicious merchants have chosen to limit themselves to a commerce much more important, which is that cf slaves.,THs
THE property which some men have acquired over B O O K,XI. others in Guinea, is of very high antiquity. It is ge . neatly established there, excepting in some little districts, New com-fierce of where liberty hath retired and concealed herself. No pro Guinea, o praetor, however, has a right to sell a man who is born the slave in a state of servitude. He can only dispose of those ate. saves whom he gets, whether by war, in which every prisoner is a save unless exchanged, or in lieu of com sensation for some injury; or if he hath received them as a testimony of acknowledgment. This law, which seems to be made in favour of one who is born a slave, to indulge him with the enjoyment of his family and of his country, is yet ineffectual!, since the Europeans have established luxury on the coasts of Africa. It is every day eluded by concerted quarrels, which two proprietors mutually dissemble, in order to be reciprocally condemned, each in his turn, to a fine, which is paid in persons born saves, the disposal of whom is allowed by the sanction of the same law. CORRUPTION, contrary to its ordinary progress, hath advanced from private persons to princes. Contentions have been multiplied in order to procure slaves, as war is excited in Europe in order to procure soldiers. They have established the custom of punishing with slavery not only those who have attempted the lives or properties of citizens, but those also who were incapable of paying their debts, and those who have violated conjugal faith. This punishment, in process of time, was inflicted for the most trivial misdemeanors, after having been at first reserved only for the greatest crimes. They have not ceased to multiply prohibitions of things indifferent, in order to increase the revenues raised from the fines by increasing the number of ounces. Injustice hath not been con gained within any limits or restraints. At great distance,from
B K from the coast, there are chiefs, who give orders for XI,every thing they meet with in the villages around them, to be carried off. The children are thrown into sacks: the men and women are gagged to stifle their cries. If the ravagers are sopped by a superior force, they are con duce before the prince, who always disowns the com mission he has given, and under pretence of ding justice, instantly felix his agents to the sips he has treated with. NOT WITHSTANDING these infamous arts, the people of the coast have found it impossible to supply the demands of the merchants. It has happened to them, what every nation must experience, w.l;i h cannot trade but with its nominal clock. Slaves are to the commerce of Europeans in Africa, what gold is in the commerce we carry on with the new world. The heads of the negroes represent the flock of the state of Guinea. Every day this stock is carried off, and nothing is left them but articles of consumption. Their capital gradually va rifles, because it cannot be renewed, by reason of the speedy consumptions. Thus the trade for blacks would long since have been entirely lost, if the inhabitants of the coats had nt imported their luxury to the people of the inland countries, frcm whom they now draw the greatest part of the flares that are put into our hands. Thus the trade of the Europeans, by gradual advances, has almost exhausted the only vendible commodities of this nation.,IN the space of twenty years this circumstance lath r:if-d the price of slaves almolo to four times above the sorry cc s: the rczfon is this. The payments they receive, co:.if ch;iicty ofthe merchandize of the Eat-Indies, which ha-e doubted their vAlue in Europe. A double quanti:; cf :arse c gods must be g;.:c in Africa. Thus the cc-,luoi;':
long's of America, where the sale for blacks is concluded, B O O K a!; obliged to support these several augmentations, and Xi consequently to pay four times more than they formerly did. THE distant proprietor, however, who fells his slave, receives less profit than the person received fifty years ago, who sold his lave in the neighbourhood of the coast. The profits intercepted by passing through different hands, the expences of transport, the imposts, sometimes f three per cent. that must be paid to those princes through whose territories they pass, fink the difference betwixt the sum which the first proprietor receives, and that which the European trader pays. These expences continually in crease on account of the great distances of the places where there are fill slaves to be sold. She further off this first sale is, the greater will be the difficulties attending travelling. They will become such, that of the sum which the European merchant will be able to pay, there will remain so little to offer to the first feller, that he will rather choose to keep his slave. Then all trade of this kind will cease. In order, therefore, to support it effectually, our traders must purchase at an exorbitant price, and sell in proportion to the colonies; which, on their part, not being able to dispose of their produce but at an enormous price, will no longer find people to con fume it. But till that time comes, which is, perhaps, not so distant as the colonists imagine, they will quietly live on the blood and labours of the negroes. They will find navigators who will hazard the purchasing of them, and tyrants who will sell them. Slave merchants are united by a mutual confederacy, and forming a species of caravans, in the space of two or three hundred leagues they conduce several files of thir ty or forty slaves, all laden with water and corn which,are
B 0 0 K are necessary to their subsistence in those thirsty deserts through which they pass. The manner of securing then without much incommoding their march, is ingeniously devised. A fork of wood from eight to nine feet long is put round the neck of each slave. A pin of iron riveted secures the fork in such a manner that the head cannot disengage itself. The handle of the fork, the wood of which is very heavy, falls before alt so embarrasses the the person who is tied to it, that the,' he has his arms and legs free, he can neither walk, nor lift up the fork. When they get ready for their march, they range the flares on the same line, and support and tie the extremity of each fork on the shoulder of tie foremost slave, and proceed in this manner from one to another, up to the sirs, the extremity of whose fork is carried by one of the guides. Few restrains are imposed that are not felt by the persons who impose them. In order that these traders may enjoy the refreshment of seep without uneasiness, they tie the arms of every nave to the tail of the fork which he carries. In this condition he can neither run away nor make any attempt to regain hi liberty. These precautions have been found indispensable, because, if the slave can but break his chain, he becomes free. The public faith, which secures to the proprietor the possession of his flare, and which at all times delivers him up into his hands, is silent with regard to a lave and a trader who exercises the most contemptible of all professions. GREAT numbers of slaves arrive together, especially when they come from distant countries. This arrange ment is necessary, in order to diminish the expence which is unavoidable in conducting them. The interval between one vo-.;ae and another, which by this syren of ceconomy is already made too distant may become still greater by par titular circumstances. The .most usual are the rains, which,cauLd
cause thrives to overflow, and'trade to languish. The sea B K son most favourable to travelling in the inferior parts of Afri- X ca, is from February to September, and it is from Septem ber to March, that the return of these slave traders pro duces the greatest plenty of this traffic on the coasts. THE trade of the Europeans is carried on to the south Account of and north of the line. The first coast, known by tithe places and man name of Angola, hath but three ports, open indifferently ner in to all nations; these are Calendar, Loango, Malemba, which the clave trade and two, of which the Portuguese ale the sole masters, St. is carried Paul de Loando, and St. Philip de Benguela. These la on. titles nearly supply one third of the blacks that are carried to America, who are neither the most intelligent, nor the molt laborious, nor the molt robust. The second coast, known by the general name of the Gold Coast, has more road, but they are not equally favourable to commerce. The restraint which the European forts have laid in several places, drives away the dealers in slaves. They are to be met with in much larger numbers at Anambou and Calvary, where business is transacted with the utmost liberty. IN 1768 there where exported out of Africa 104,1co slaves. The English have exported 53, co for their islands; their colonists on the north continent carried away 630 ; the French 23,500; the Dutch 11,3co; the Portuguese 8700; and the Danes doo. All these wretches did not arrive at the place of their destination. In the ordinary course of things, the eighth part must have perished in their passage. Every nation hath em played in its colonies such cultivators of land as it hath purchased. Great-britain only has ceded four thousand of them to the Spaniards, and smuggled about three thousand in the French settlements.,IT
BOO K IT would be a very great mistake to imagine, that , , America regularly receives the same number of ngrocs.,Not to mention the considerable diminution in the num ber of expeditions to Guinea, on account of the war, the arrangements of the last peace have occasioned new lands to be cultivated, which required extraordinary sup plies. The number of men mus be reduced to sixty thousand, of which the African coasts are deprived every year. Supposing that each of these slaves coils on the spot three hundred iivr-s,(b) those barbarous regions re clive eighteen millions (x) for so horrid a sacrifice the French merchant will exclaim, we doubt not, on the price to which slaves are here reduced. No one is ignorant that he purchases them much dearer; but it is likewise known that the English and the Dutch buy them up at a better price, because they are not reduced by the insufficiency of their Asiatic commerce and the imper scion of certain manufactures proper to the African trade, to pay, as the French merchant does, for a com mission, freight, insurance, in order to draw from foreign ports cert-in merchandise, which it is impossible to do without. ]The l'orrugucfe have still another advantage over these rations. hey carry on their expeditions from Braes ; and thir exchanges are generally made with the tobacco and brandy of their country; and they maintain an exclusive trade on the coasts, which are two hundred leagues Song, and forty broad excepting the Portuguese, all nations pay for slaves with the same merchandise. These are sabres, firelock, gun-powder, iron, brandy, hardware, woollen stuffs, es specially Eai-lndia cottons, or those which are wrought i.l Europe, and coloured in the same manner. The people north of the line have adopted, instead of money little ( a;) ;!. :. 6d. (x) 7S:,5o0/.
little white shells, which we import among them from B O 0 K,xI. the Maldives. South of the line, the European trade, . is without this object of exchange. There mall pieces of draw fluff, eighteen inches long, and twelve broad, are used as marks of value. This real mark is only the fortieth part of an ideal value, which they call piece. THIS word, from the time we have frequented Africa, is become the numerical term of ail things that bear the greatest value. The price of each species of merchandise that we import there, i invariably fixed under the denomination of one, two, three or more pieces. Each piece, in its original value, is neatly worth a pistole, and for some time pass, thirty-five or thirty-fix pieces have been given for a negro, ail taxes included. The greatest of them is the see that must be given t the factor, who always mediates between the vender and the purchaser, whom it is of consequence to make a friend ds, and who is become so much the greater, as the competition be tween the Europeans has increased, and the want of slaves has made him sensible of his importance. Another tax, which though asked under the name of a pre sent, is no less an extorted tribute, is, that which must be paid to the prince and his chief officers, fr the liberty of trading. The sum is in proportion to the size of the vessel, and it may be valued at three er cent. THE European nations have been of opinion that it Are forts was conducive to the utility of their commerce, to form "'eerfary,in order ta settlements on the coast of Africa. The Portuguese, procure who first traversed these immense regions, .left every laves? where the marks of their ambition, rather than of their wisdom. The weak and numbers colonies which they poured in, soon forgot a country, which hd itself for gotten them. In time, there remained of these great conquests nothing but that vrt space which extends,from
B o O K from Zara to cape Negro, from whence Brasil fill draws,. its slaves. They have preserved too some isles of litt!e,consequence. Those which are situated at the weft of Cape de Verd, produce salt, feed cattle, and serve as a place of refreshment for vessels going to the East-Indies. Prince's Island, and St.Thornas, which are at the entrance of the gulph of Gabon, supply navigators with fresh pro visions, who, after leaving the geld coast, fail to America They are both totally disregarded in the com mercia world. THOUGH Portugal, even in the earliest times, derived but very moderate advantages from the coals of Africa, it was yet so jealous of the sovereignty which it exercised there, in virtue of its discovery, that it thought no na tion had a right to approach them. The English, who first ventured to question the right of there pretensions, about the year 1553, sustained the affront of having their vessels seized. A national war immediately ensued, and the superiority of arms put a final period to this tyranny. In process of time, the exclusive companies of England, who had embarked in this trade, successively formed fabrics without number, of which that of cape Corse, si tufted on the gold coast, and that of James, placed in an island, at the mouth of the river Gambia, were for a considerable time the principal and the most useful. Though many of them had been abandoned, there fill remained sixteen, when the parliament, rouzed by the public clamour, determined in 1752, to put a stop to this monopoly. The nation purchased of the proprietors all there fortified magazines, for the sum of 1,523,198 litres, 3 fols() where there were no more than one hun died and twenty men. The expence of maintaining them mou ants annually to Zbs- : 292,5^0 livres.(z),THE (j) Ei,5'. I.z. ) ,7 61. 17s. 6.
THE English almost entirely engrossed the Afri- B O O K,XI. can trade, when the Dutch, in 1637, undertook to. there it with them. The war they were carrying on against Spain, authorised them to attack the Portuguese settlements in Guinea and they made themfelvcsmafters of most of them in a very short time. The treaty of 1641, secured the property of them to the republic. This fate, pretending to enter into all the rights of the first possessor, intended to exclude her rival from these latitudes and ceased not to molest her till the peace of Breda. Of all there conquests, that of fort Mina, on the gold coast, was found the most important. It had been built in 1452, by the Portuguese, who had enriched its territory by planting sugar-canes, maize, different kinds of excellent fruits, and had supplied it with a number of useful animals, which they had imported thither. They drew from thence much gold and some slaves. This set element did not degenerate in the hands of the Hollanders who made it the center of all the factories they had acquired, and of all the business they carried on in Africa. THE prosperity of the Dutch, in this part of the world, was at its height, when they were attacked by Lewis the XIVtb. This prince, who aspired after uni yerfal glory, seized an opportunity offered him by the war of 1672, of extending the terror which his flag car cried with it on all the seas, even to the borders of Africa. He took from the Dutch the forts of Arguing and Portends which were at that time the general market for gum. His subjects afterwards established on the coast several polls which were obliged to be abandoned, either be cause they were injudiciously chosen, or because they wanted silently to maintain them. Since the time that France, by a eries of errors and misfortunes, hath VOL. III. L found
B o O K found herself under a necessity of giving up Senegal' to .XT , the English by the last treaty, she hath nothing now re-remaining but the factory of Juida, and the island of Go rse, where there is not, nor ever will be any trade. Some years ago, a settlement that would have been of advantage to Anambou, began to be formed, when the work men were driven away by cannon-shot fired in a time of full peace, by the ships of Great Britain. An able mer chant, who was then at London, at the news of this outrage, expressed hi; astonishment at a conduce so im prudent. Sr, said a minister to him, who was in great favour with this intelligent people, f we were to be jus to the French', we sould not exil thirty years longer. THE Danes, who fettled in Africa a little after the middle of the last century, and who purchased of the king of Aquambo the two forts of Fredericksburg and Chriftianburg, situated on the golden coast near each other, never experienced a similar treatment. They owed the tranquility which they enjoyed to the insignificancy of the trade they carried on. It was in so low a Rate, that they only fitted out a single velrel every two or three years. This trade hath been extended for some time past, but it is still far from being considerable.,IF we except the Portuguese, all the European nations subjected their African trade to exclusive charters. The companies in possession of this monopoly, the errors of which all governments at last have felt and put a top to, fortified their factories, both in order to drive away strangers, and to oblige the natives to sell to none but themselves. When the distress, in which these forts were ereaed, had no more slaves to deliver trade languished because the people in the inland countries preferred the conveying their slaves into free ports, where they might chuse the purchasers. Thus the faio-,ries,
ries, which had been of such utility when the coast was B 0 K populous, are no longer so valuable, once the factors of, x. them are obliged to make long voyages, in order to com plate their purchase. The advantage of these establishments was lost, when the objet of their commerce was exhausted. The difficulty of procuring shales naturally points out I" the nave trade finally the necessity of employing small ships for carrying them vfels are off. At a time when a inall territory, adjacent to the preferable coast, furnished in fifteen days, or three weeks, a wholesome. cargo, it was prudent to employ large vessels, because there was a possibility of understanding, looking after, and comforting the flares, who all spoke the same language Now that each hip can scarce procure sixty or eighty flares a month, brought from the distance of two or three hundred leagues, exhausted by the fatigues of along journey, embarked to remain five or fix months in fight of their country, having all different idioms, uncertain of the destiny that awaits them, struck with the prepossession that the Europeans eat them and drink their blood; their extreme uneasiness alone kills them, or )occasions disorders which become contagious by the im )possibility of separating the sick from the healthy. A mall ship destined to carry twoor three hundred negroes, )y means of the short say it makes on the coast, avoids half the accidents and losses which a ship capable of hold ng five or fix hundred saves is exposed to. Thus the english, who have extended this commerce as far as possible have adopted c;e custom of sending only rebels of n hundred and twenty, or an hundred and thirty tons ito the fas which extend from Senegal to the river Tota, and to si: out vcflsi n little larger only for Col ar, where the trade is mote bill k, and u'hlrc they make heir principal cargoes. The French arc the only people 2 who
B 0 0 K who obstinately adhere to the old mode. The towns Nantes, however, which alone carries on as much true Z5 all the other ports of the kingdom together, be .ills to get rid of its prejudices. It will undoubtedly en timely relinquish them; and all the merchants who con dust the same trade on their own bottoms, will follow its example. There are THERE are abuses of the utmost consequence, to be seasons reformed in this voyage, which is naturally unhealthy. nine or T lei f.vo- Tole who engage in it commonly fall into two great able to he mistakes. Dupes to a mercenary disposition, the priva sl are te.,tcs p:;y more regard to the port than to the dispatch of their eels, a circumstance which necessarily prolongs the voyage, which every thing hould induce them to £shorten as much as possible. Another inconvenience fill more dangerous, is, the custom they have of failing from Europe at :il times; though the regularity of the winds and the currents hath determined the most proper season for arriving at these latitudes.,THI; bad practice hath given rise to the distinction of the great and little voyage. The little voyage is the straightest and the shorter. It is no more than eighteen hundred leagues to the most distant ports where there art slaves. It may be performed in thirty-five or forty days, from the beginning of September to the end of Novem ber; because, from the time of setting out to the time of arrival, the winds and the currents are favourable. It is very pcfib!e to attempt it in December, January and February, but with less security and fuccels.,SAILI'- is no longer practicable in these latitudes, from the beginning of March to the end of August. One roll have continually to struggle against the violent currents which run northward, and against the south east wind, which constantly blows. Experience has,taugh;
taught navigators, that during this season, they hurl B O O K keep at a distance from the shore, get into the open sea, . fail towards the louth as far as twenty-lix or twenty-eight degrees betwixt Africa and Brasil, and afterwards daw gradually nearer and nearer to Guinea, in order to land at an hundred and fifty or two hundred leagues to wind ward of the port where they are to disembark. This route is two thousand five hundred leagues, and requires ninety or an hundred days fail. THIS great route, independent of its length, de proves them of the most favourable time for trade and for returning. The ships meet with calms, are thwarted by winds, and carried away by currents; w.-:er fails them, the provisions are spoiled, and the laves are '.zcd with the scurvy. Other calamities, not lets fatal, often increase the danger that attends this expedition. The negroes, to the north of the Line, are subject to the small-pox, which, by a singularity very distressing, seldom breaks out among this people till after the age of four teen. If this contagion affects a ship which is at her moorings, there are several known methods to lessen its violence. But a sip attacked by this distemper, that is on its way to America, often loses the whole cargo of slaves. Those who are born o the south of the Line, avoid this disease by another, which is a kind of virulent ulcer, whose malignity is more violent and more irritable on the ea, and which is never radically cured. Physicians ought, perhaps, to observe this double effet of the small-pox among the negroes, which is, that it favours those who are born beyond the Equator, and never at tacks the others in their infancy. The number and va rietv of effects sometimes afford occasion for the in resignation of the causes of disorders, and for the disco very of remedies proper for them.,L 3 THOUGH
B O O K THOUGH all the nations, concerned in the African . . trade, are equally interested in preserving the slaves in,their passage, they do not all attend to it alike. They all feed them with beans, mixed with a small quantity of rice; but they differ in other repeat in their manner of treating them the English, Dutch and Danes keep the men con faintly in irons, and frequently hand-cuff the women: the small number of hands they have on board their ships obliges them to this severity. The French, who have greater numbers of men, allow them more liberty ; three or four days after their departure they take off all their fetters. Both nations, especially the English, are too negligent with regard to the intercourse between their sailors with the women slaves. The seas of this occasion the death of three-fourths of those whom the Guinea voyage destroys every year. None, but the Portuguese during their passage, are secured against revolts and other calamities. This advantage is a consequence of the care they take to man their vessels only with ne grows, to whom they have given their freedom. The slaves encouraged by the discourse and condition of their countrymen, form a tolerably favourable idea of the de tiny that awaits them. The quietness of their behaviour induces the Portuguese to grant the two sexes the happiness of living together: an indulgence, which, if allowed in other vessels, would be productive of the greatest inconveniences. IT is a generally received opinion, that the blacks, who are brought from America, are now sold at a higher price than they were formerly. This is a mistake, ari sing from this circumstance, that the purchaser pays at mention only to the number of those arbitrary marks of value which he gives, instead of reckoning the quantities
of thole commodities he delivers in exchange. This B o0 K,XI. proportion, which is the only exact one, will make him sensible that the price of negroes hath not advanced; since they are purchased with the same quantity of those commodities as they were in the earliest times. It is the value of money that hath changed, and not that of the unhappy slave. ALL nations do not sell their saves in the same way. Manner of The Englishman, who hath promiscuously bought up slater ' h whatever presented itself in the general market, fells his America. cargo by wholesale. A ingle merchant buys it entire; and the planters parcel it out. What they do not like is (went into foreign colonies, either by smuggling, or with permission. The cheapness of a negro is a greater ob je to the buyer to induce him to purchase, than the badness of his constitution is to deter him from it. They will one day be convinced of the absurdity of such a conduce. The Portuguese, Dutch, French and Danes, who have no way of disposing of the decayed and weakly slaves, never charge themselves with them in Guinea. They all divide ther cargoes, according to the demands of the proprietors of plantations. The bargain is made in ready money, or for credit, according to the circum stances. When the term is fixed for eighteen months, as it happens but too often in the French colonies, the negro's labour must by that time have brought in two thirds of the price paid for him. If that does not always happen, it is owing to particular reasons, the detail of which would be superfluous. IN-America it is generally believed and asSerted, that Wretched the Africans are equally incapable of reason and of vir condition tue. The following well-authenticated fact will enablenlaves. us to judge of this opinions 4 AN
B O K AN English hip that traced in Guinea in 1752, was xl. ^ i obliged to leave the surgeon behind them, whose bad state of health did not permit him to continue at fca. Murray was then endeavouring to recover his health, when a Dutch vcffe! drew near the cat, put the blacks in irons, whom curiosity had brought to the lore, and instantly failed off with their bocty.,THOSE who interested themselves for these unhappy people, incensed at so bale a treachery, instantly ran to Cudjoc, who flopped them at his door, and asked them what they were in search of. The w'-ite man, who is with ;ju, replied they, 'os si'.u!.d re put to teat', because his brethren have cried Cf curs. The Eu, means, answered the generous hour, iu'o have carried off cur countrymen, crz bsrl.riar:s; kill i,'iei, u Elcnswr you can find them. But ke w.5 !sis with me is a good nn, he is my friend; ry ,t!'e is hi farmers; I an; his soldier, and I wil defend kim. Tire you can get at win:, :u hal! p/s over rry body. 0 ney friends, what jus nan would ever enter ry doors, if I bad fjiffird my habitation to be Joined with tie blood of an ir:n:.-nt msa? This discourse appeared the rage of the blacks: they retired named of the design that had r:'-t them there; and some days after acknowledged zo .i array himself, how happy they were that they had not committed a crime, which would have occasioned them perpetual remorse. THIS event renders it probable, that the first impressions which the Africans receive in the new world, de termine them either to good or bad actions. Repeated experience confirms the truth of this observation: those who fall to the share of an humane master, willingly espouse his interests. They insensibly adopt the spirit and manners of the place where they are fixed. This attach ment is sometimes efx?.!lt even into heroism. A Portu-,guerf
guess flash, who had fled into the woods, having learnt B 0 0 K that his old master had been taken up for an assassination,, came into the court o justice, and acknowledged himself guilty of the sad ; let himself be put in prison in lieu of his matter; brought sallies, though judicial, proofs of his pretended crime, and suffered death instead of the guilty pe son. Actions of a less heroical nature, though not uncommon, have touched the hearts of some colonists. Several would readily say as ir William Gooch, go vernon of virginia, when he was blamed for returning the salutation of a black: I Jflu i e vy ferry that a j7i.u fi:rl b nec; e p!ite than noyes. BUT there ate barbarians, who looking upon pity as a weakness, are delighted with holding the rod of tyranny al:'vays over the head of tir dependents. Thanks be to heaven, they receive their punishment in the negligence, infidelity, desertion, and filicide of the de probable victims of their insatiable avarice. One some times fees these wretches, those of Mina especially, boldly put an end to their lies, under the firm perfaliol, that they hall immediately after death rise again in their ov'h country, which they look upon as the Sines in the world. A sindiivce spirit furnishes others with resources still more fatal. Instructed fi-om their infancy in the arts of poisons, w;i.h grow, as it were, under their hands, they employ them in the deRrucion of the cattle, the horses, the mules, the companions of their slavery, and of every living thing employed in the cultivation of the lands of their oppressors. In order to rcn'orie from themselves all suspicion, they firil exercise their cruelties on their wives, their children, their miracles, and on every thing that is dearest to them. In this dreadful purpose, that cn only be the result of despair, they take the double plea fire of delivering their pecics from a yoke more dread-ful
B 0 0 Ful than death, and of leaving their tyrant in a wretched XI. state of misery, that is an image of their own condition the fear of punishment does not check them. They are scarce ever known to have any kind of foresight; and they are, moreover, certain of concealing their crimes, being prof against tortures. By means of one of those inexplicable contradictions of the human heart, though common to all people, whether civilized or not, negroes though naturally cowards, give many proofs of an un shaken firmness of foul. The same organisation which subjects them to servitude, from the indolence of their mind, and the relaxation of their fibres, inspires them with vigour and unparalleled resolution for extraordinary nations. They are poltroons all their life-time and heroes for an infant. One of these wretches has been known to cut his wrist off with the stroke of an hatchet, rather than purchase his liberty, by submitting to the vile office of an executioner. NoTHING, however, is more miserable than the con edition of a black, throughout the whole American Archipelago A narrow, unwholesome hut, without any con sentences, serves him for a dwelling. His bed is a hurdle fitter to put his body in pain than to afford it any ease. Some earthen pots, and a few wooden differ, are his furniture. The coarse linen which covers part of his body, neither secures him from the insupportable heats of the day, nor the dangerous dews of the night. The food he is supplied with, is cassava, alt beef, cod, fruits, and roots, which are scarce able to support his miserable existence. Bereaved of every thing, he is condemned to a perpetual drudgery in a burning climate, constantly un der the rod of an unfeeling master. THE condition of these slaves, though every where de plorablc, is something different in the colonies. Those,who
who have very extensive estates, generally give them a B 0 0 K portion of land, to supply them with the necessaries of life. They are allowed to employ a part of the sunday in cultivating it, and the few moments that on other days they spare from the time allotted for their meals. In the smaller islands, the colonist himself furnishes their food, the greatest part of which hath crossed the seas. Ignorance, avarice, or poverty, have introduced into some colonies, a method of providing for the subsistence of ne goes, equal;, destructive both to the men and the plan nation. They allow them on Saturday, or some other day, to work in the neighbouring plantations, or to plunder them, in order to procure a maintenance for the rest of the week. Besides there differences arising from the particular situation of the settlements in the American hands, each European nation hath a manner of treating slaves peculiar to itself. The Spaniards make them the companions of their indolence; the Portuguese, the instruments of their debaucheries ; the Dutch, the victims of their ava rice the English, who easily derive their subsidence from their slates on the northern continent, are less attentive to the management of them than any other nations. If they never promote intermarriages among the blacks, they yet receive with kindness, as the gifts of nature, those children that are the produce of less restrained connections and seldom exact from the fathers or mothers toil or a tribute above their strength. Slaves, by them, are considered merely as natural productions, which ought neither to be used, nor destroyed without necessity; but they never treat them with familiarity; they never smile upon them, nor speak to them. One would think they were afraid of letting them suspect, that nature could have given any one mark of resemblance betwixt them and their,slaves.
BOO K faCes. This makes themhate the English. The French,,,less haughty, less disdainful, consider the Africans as a species of moral beings; and thee unhappy rien, sensible of the honour of 1iein- themselves almost :treated like rational creature, seem to forget that their master is im patient of making his fortune, that he always overworks them, and frequently lets them want fubfi.lance.,THE opinions of the Europeans have also some in fluence on the condition of the negroes of America. The protestants, who are not actuated by a desire of making proselytes, sussex them to live in Mohammedanism, or in that idolatry in which they were born, under a pre hence, that it would be a wrong thing to keep brethren in C':ri? in a state of slavery. The catholics think themselves obliged to give them rome instruction, and to baptize them; but their charity extends no further than the bare ceremonies of a baptism, which is wholly useless and un necessary to men who dread not the pains of hell, to which, as they say, they are accustomed in this life. EEVRY thing renders them insensible to the dread of future punishment, both the torments of their slavery and the disorders to which they reliable in America. They are particularly subject to two diseases, the yaws, and a complaint that affects their stomach. The first effie of this lar disorder is, to turn their skin and complexion to an oiire colour. Their tongue becomes white, and they are oppressed with such a keep that they cannot re sift: they faint, and are incapable of the leat exercise. It is a languor, and a total relaxation of the whole machine. In this situation they are in such a state of despondency, that they surfer themselves to be knocked down rather than walk. The loathing which they have of mild and whole some soo', is attended with a kind of rage for every thing that s faked or picked. Their legs feel, their breath is,obilruc'ed,
obstructed, and few of them survive this disorder. The B O o K,X. greatest part die of suffocation, after having suffered and languished for several months. THE thickness of their blood, which appears to be the source of these disorders, may proceed from several causes. One of the principal is undoubtedly the melancholy which muff seize these men who are violently torn away from their country, who are fettered like cri minas, find themselves all on a sudden on the ea, where they continue for two months or fix weeks, and who, from the midst of a beloved family, pass under the yoke of an unknown people, from whom they expect the most dreadful punishments. A species of food, new to them, and disagreeable in itself, disgusts them in their passage. At their arrival in the islands, the food that is distributed to them, is neither good in quality, nor sufficient in quantity To complete their wretchedness, several among them have contracted in Africa, the habit of eating a certain earth, which gratified their taste without any ways incommoding them : they seek for something that resembles this, and chance hath thrown in their way a soft stone of a deep yellow, which totally spoils their flo mach. 'I HE yaws, which is the second disorder peculiar to negroes, discovers itself by blotches that are dry, hard, callous, and round, Sometimes covered by the skein, ut most commonly ulcerated, and sprinkled, as it were, with a whitish flower intermixed with yellow. The yaws have been confounded with the venereal disease, because the same remedy is proper for both. This opinion, though pretty general, has lets to support it than at first fight it appears to have. ALL the negroes, s well nile as female, who come from Guinea, or arc b::'n in the iliad, have the aw,,O;Cc
B O K once in their lives: it is a disease tncy must necessarily Xi. S- pa s through; but there is no instance of any of trembling attacked with it a second time, after having been ra dismally cured. The Europeans seldom or never catch this disorder; notwithstanding the frequent and daily connection which they have with the negro women. These women suckle the children, but do not give them the yaws. How is it possible to reconcile these sacs, which are in contemptible, with the system which physicians seem to have adopted with regard to the nature of the yaws ? Why will it not be allowed, that the semen, the blood, and skin of the negroes, are susceptible of a virus peculiar to their species ? The cause of this disorder, perhaps, is owing to that which occasions their colour: one difference is naturally productive of another : and there is no being or quality that exists absolutely detached from others in nature. BUT whatever this disorder may be, it is evident from the most accurate and undeniable calculations, that there dies every year in America, the seventh part of the blacks that are imported thither from Guinea. Fourteen hun died thousand wretches, that are now in the European co ionics of the new world, are the unfortunate remains of nine millions of slaves that have been conveyed thither. This dreadful destruction cannot be the esse of the climate which is nearly the same as that of Afiica, much less of the disorders, to which, in the opinion of all ob servers, but few fall a sacrifice. It must originate from In hat the manner in which there slaves are governed: and might manner not an error of this nature be corrected ? the condition of THE first shep necessary in this reformation would be to laves attend minutely to the natural and moral rate of man. might be rendered Those who go to purchase blacks on the coals of savage more :nations those who convey them to America, and especially,those
those who dire their labours, often think themselves ob B O O K lived, from their situation, and frequently too for the fake of their own safety, to oppress these wretched men. The foul of these managers of flaRes, lost to all sense of com pelion, is ignorant of every motive to enforce obedience, but those of fear or severity, and these they exercise with all the harshness of a temporary authority. If the pro praetors of plantations would cease to regard the care of their slaves, as an occupation below them, and consider it as an office, to which it is their duty to attend, they would soon discard these errors that arise from a spirit of cruelty. The history of all mankind would shew them, that in order to render fla-cry useful, one must at least make it easy; that force does not prevent the rebellion of the mind; that it is the master's interest that his flare should live, and that nothing is to be expected from him the moment that he no longer fears to die. THIS principle of enlightened reason, derived from the sentiments of humanity, would contribute to the reformation of several abuses. Men would acknowledge the necessity of lodging, cloathing, and giving proper food to beings condemned to the most painful bondage that ever has existed since the infamous origin of starry. They would be sensible, that it is naturally impossible that those who reap no advantage from the sweat of their brows, can have the same understanding, the same oeconomy, the same activity, the same strength, as the man who enjoys the produce of his industry. That political moderation would gradually take place, which consists in lessening of labour, alleviating punishment, and rendering to man part of his rights, in order to reap more certainly the benefit of those offices that are im posed upon him. The preservation of a great number of slaves, whom disorders, occasioned by vexation or regret,,deprive
BO O K deprive the colonies of, would be the natural consequences , of so wise a regulation. Far from aggravating the yoke that oppresses them, every kind of attention hould be given to make it fit easy, to dissipate even the idea of it, by favouring a natural talc that sevens peculiar to the negroes. THEIR organs are extremely sensible of the powers of music. Their car is so true, that in their dances, the time of a song makes them leap up and come down a hun died at once, striking th earth at the same instant. En chanted, as it were, with the voice of the finger, or the tone of a stringed instrument, a vibration of the air is the spirit that awaits z!l the bodies of these men: a found agitates, traluorts, and throws them into ecstasies In their ccrn;on labours, the motion of their arms, or of their feet, is always in cadence. At all their em employments they ling, and fen always as if they were dancing. music animates their courage, and rouses them from their indolence. The marks of this extreme fen nobility to harmony, are visible in all the muscles their bodies, which are always naked. Poets and musicians by nature, they make the words subservient to the music, by a licence they arbitrarily assume of lengthening or shortening them, in order to accommodate them to an air that pleases them. Whenever any object or in cedent shrikes a negro, he instantly makes it the fuhjcc of a song. In all ages this has been the origin of poetry. Three or four words, which are alternately repeated by the finger and the general chorus, sometimes constitute the whole poem. Five or fix bars of music compose the whole length of the song. A circumstance that appears singular, is, that the same air, though merely a continual repetition of the same tones, tes entire pofl.flcn of them, makes them work or dr.ce for hours,toectih.r:
together: neither they, nor even the white men, are diff O O K,xl. gustcd with that tedious uniformity which these repetitions might naturally occasion. This particular attach ment is owing to the warmth and expression which they introduce into their songs. Their airs are generally double time. None of them tend to inspire them with pride. Those intended to excite tenderness, promote ra ther a kind of languor. Even those which are most lively, carry in them a certain cxpcilion of melancholy. This is the highest entertainment to minds of great fen nobility. So strong an inclination for music might become a powerful motive of action under the direction of skilful hands. Festivals, games and rewards might n this ac count be established among them. Thefeamufements, conduct with judgrrcnt would prevent that stupidity so common among shares, ease their labours, and preserve them from that consent melancholy v.hich consumes them, and hortense their days. After having provided for the preservation of the blacks exported from Africa, the welfare of those who are born in the islands them selves would then b considered. THE negroes are not averse from the propagation of their species even in the chains of slavery. But it is the cruelty of their masters which hath effectually prevented them from complying with this great end of nature. Such hard labour is required from negro women, both before and after their pregnancy, that their children are either abortive, or live but a short time after deli very. mothers, rendered desperate by the punishments which the weakness of their condition occasions them, snatch Sometimes their children from the cradle, in order to strangle them in their arms, and sacrifice them with fury .mingled vital a fFpiit of revenge and compassion, that VOL. III. M they
B O O K they may not become the property of their cruel masters,. This barbarity, the whole horror of which must be im-spouted to the Europeans, will, perhaps, make them fen. bible of their error. Their sensibility will be rouzed by paying a greater attention to their true interests. They will learn that they lose more than they get, by commit ting such outrages against humanity; and if they do not become the benefactors of their fives, they will at leaPt cease to be their executioners. Thei will, perhaps, resolve to set free those mothers who shall have brought up a considerable number of children to the age of fix years. The allurements of liberty are the moPs powerful that can influence the human heart. The negro women, animated by the hope of so great a blessing, to which all would aspire, and few would be able to obtain, would make neglect and infamy be succeeded by a virtuous emulation to bring up children, whose number and preservation would fe cure to them freedom and tranquillity after having taken wise measures not to deprive their plantations of those succours arising from the extraordinary fruitfulness of the negro women; they will attend to the care of conducing and extending cultivation by means of population, and without foreign expedients. Every thing invites them to eblis this easy and natural system. THERE are some powers, whose settlements in the American isles, every day acquire extent, and there are none whose manual labour does not continually in crease. These lands, therefore, constantly require a greater number of hands to clear them. Africa, where all Europeans go to recruit the population of their colonies, gradually furnishes them with fewer men, and supplies them at the same time with worse flares, and alla dearer
a dearer rate. This source for the obtaining slaves O OK,XI. will be gradually more and more exhausted. But were , this change in trade as chimerical, as it seems to be not far distant, it is nevertheless certain that a great num ber of slaves, drawn out of a remote region, perish in their passage, or in the new world and that when they come to America they fetch a very high price ; that there are few of them whose term of life is not shortened ; and that the greater part of those who attain a wretched old age, are extremely ignorant, and being accustomed from their infancy to idleness, are frequently very unfit for the employments to which they are destined, and are in a continual tate of despondency, on account of their being separated from their country. If we are not mistaken in our opinion, cultivators born in the American islands themselves, always breathing their native air, brought up without any other expence than what consists in a cheap food, habituated in early life to labour by their own parents, endowed with a sufficient share of under standing, or a singular aptitude for all the useful arts; such cultivators cannot but be preferable to slaves that have been sold and live in a perpetual exile and restraint. THE method of substituting in the place of foreign negroes those of the colonies themselves, is very obvious. It wholly consists in superintending the black children that are born in the islands, in confining to their work houses that multitude of slaves, who carry about with them their worthlessness, their licentiousness, and the luxury and insolence of their master, in all the towns and ports of Europe; but above all, in requiring of na visitors who frequent the African coasts, that theyfhould form their cargo of an equal number of men and women or even of a- marty of won n, during some,i1 25 ,earn.
BO O K years, in order to reduce that disproportion which ob. XI.,tains between the two foxes. THis las precaution, Iy putting the pleasures of love within the each of all the blacks, would contribute to their efe and multiplication. 'l he unhappy men, for. getting the weight of their chains, would, with transi port, Ife themselves live again in their children. The m.-ujrity of them are faithful, even to death, to those ne gro women whom love and slavery have assigned to them for their companions ; they treat them with that compassion which the wretched mutually derive from one another even in the rigour of their condition; they corn. soit them under the load of their employments ; they sympathize, at least, with thclm, wvten, through excess of labour, or want of food, the mother can only offer her child a brest that is dry, or bathed in her tears. The women, on their part, though tied down to no restrictions o chastity, are fixed in their attachments; pro sided that the vanity of being beloved by white people does not render them inconstant. Unhappily this is a temptation to infidelity, to which they have too often opportunities to yield. THOSE who have inquired into the cases of this take for black women, which appears to be so depraved in ths Europeans, have found it to arise from the nature of til climate, which under the torrid zone irresistibly excite men to the pleasures of love; the facility of gratifying this insurmountable inclination without restraint, ae without the trouble of a long pursuit; from a curtail captivating attraction of beauty, discoverable in black women, as on as custom hath once reconciled the cy to their colour; but principally from a warmth of con situation, which gives them the power of inspiring an, returning the most ardent transports. Thus they rcvcng,thierl
themselves, as it were, for the humiliating despondence B 0 O K,XI. of their condition, b., the violent and immoderate pas r sons which th c excite in their masters; nor do ur la dies, in Europe, pflefs in a more exalted degree the art of wasting and running out large fortunes than the negro women. B!t the African womnci h;:ve the superiority over the European, in the real passion they have for the men who purchase them. The happy discovery and pre version of conspiracies that would have diflroycd all their oppressors by the hands of their slaves, hath been often owing to the faithful attachment of there ne gro women. The double tyranny of these unworthy usurpers of the estates aud liberty of so many peep le, dc served, doubtless, such a punishment. WE will not here so far demean ourselves as to cil:itre Slaver is the ignominious lift of these writers who devote thec:r t';,it abilities to justify by policy what morality condemns. humanity, In an age where so many errors are boldly laid c.pec, it } lnc. would be unpardonable to conceal any truth that is ite resting to humanity. If whatever we have hitherto ad danced hath seemingly tended only to alleviate the-burden of slavery, the reason is, that it was firs nccdih:ry to give rome comfort to those unhappy beings, whom we cannot set free and convince their oppressors that they are cruel to the prejudice of their real interests. But, in the mean time, until sonne great resolution makes the evidence of this great truth felt, it is proper to go on with the fubjeic. We shall then first prove, that there is no reason of irate that can authorise slavery. WVc shall not be afraid to cite to the tribunal of reason and justice those governments which tolerate this cruelty, or which even are not ashamed to make it the basis of their powver.,MA 3 Mob
O o K Montesquieu could not resolve with himself to treacherously the question concerning slavery. In reality it is degrading reason to employ it, I will not say in de sending, but even in refuting an abuse so repugnant to it. Whoever justifies so odious a system, deserves the utmost contempt from a philosopher, and from the negro. a flab with his dagger.,IF you touch me, said Clarissa to Lovelace, that mo. went I kill myself; and I would say to him, who at tempted to deprive me of my liberty, if you approach me, I will flab you. In this case, I should reason better than Clarissa; because, defending my liberty, or, which is the same thing, my life, is my primary duty; to re. gard that of another, is only a secondary consideration; and if all other circumstances were the same, the death of a criminal is more conformable to justice than that of an innocent person. WILL it be said, that he who wants to make me a slave does me no injury, but that he only makes use of his rights ? Where are those rights ? Who hath stamped upon them so sacred a character as to silence mine ? From nature I hold the right of self-defence; nature, therefore, has not given to another the right of attacking me. If thou thinnest thyself authorised to oppress me, because thou art stronger and more ingenious than I am; do not complain if my vigorous arm shall plunge a dagger into thy breast ; do not complain, when in thy tortured en trails thou halt feel the pangs of death conveyed by poison into thy food: I am stronger and more ingenious than thou: fall a victim, therefore, in thy turn and expiate the crime of having been an oppressor.,HE who supports the system of slavery is the enemy of the whole human race. He divides it into two so, cries of legal basins; the oppressors and the oppressed.
It is the same thing as proclaiming to the world, If you B 0 0 K,XI. would preserve your life, instantly take away mine, for I want to have yours. BUT the right of slavery, you say, extends only to the right of labour ant the privation of liberty, not of life. What ! does not the master, who disposes of my strength at his pleasure, likewise dispose of my life, which depends on the voluntary and proper use of my faculties ? What is existence to him, who has not the disposal of it ? I cannot kill my slave; but I can make him bleed under the whip of an executioner; I can overwhelm him with sorrows, drudgery and want; I can injure him every way, and secretly undermine the principles and springs of his life; I can smother, by flow punishments, the wretched infant, which a negro woman carries in her womb. Thus the laws protect the save against a violent death, only to leave to my cruelty the right of making him die by degrees. LET us proceed a shep further : the right of slavery is that of perpetrating all forts of crimes: those crimes which invade property; for slaves are not suffered to have any even in their own persons: those crimes which destroy personal safety ; for the slave may be sacrificed to the ca price of his master: those crimes which make modesty shudders-My blood rises at these horrid images. detest, I abhor the human species, made up only of victims and executioners, and if it is never to become better, may it be annihilated ! FURTHER, that I may not conceal any part of my sentiments on this subject. Cartouche, the highwayman, fitting at the foot of a tree in a deep forest, calculating the profits and losses of his robberies, the rewards anti pay of his associates, and adjusting with them the ideas of proportion and distributive justice; this Cartouche ism 4 not
BE )0 K not a very different character from that of the privateers ,who, reclined on his counter, with his pen in his hand, settles the number cf attacks which he can order to be rr.ace on the coasts of Guinea; who deliberately examines how many firelock each nero will cost him, in order to support the war which is to furnish him with flares; how many iron fetters to confine him aboard; how many whips to make him work: how much each drop of blood will be worth to him with which each negro will water his plantation ; if the black woman will con tribute more to his curate b the labours of her hands, or by those of bearing children i What think you of this parallel-the highwaymen attacks you, and takes your money; the trader carries off even your person. The one invades the rights of society, the other, those of na ture. This certainly is the truth; and if there existed a rceiic.n which authorised, with tolerated, even by its fileac, such enormities; if, moreover, occupied by idle or taiiious question, it did nt eternally denounce vengeance ag inst the author, or instruments of this tyranny; if it made i cranial so a fla e to break his bonds; if it did nt e:;pei the uniufi jude who condemns the fu gothic :o death if l ch a rli-ion exiled, its ministers cajht t b mr: acrid uidcr the ruins of their altars. BUT the-e negroes, say they, are a race of men born for fiery; their di;poil;ltons are narrow, treacherous, arid wicked ; t ex tl-mli.hes allow the superiority of our u;!cri:;ld:r.s, and ahnolt acknowledge the justice of our authority. TriE minds of the negroes are contract ; because slavery evils all the farina of the fol. They are wick c; but not sufficiently so with you. They are treacherous bc-':; thr.c arc under no obligation to speak truth to their t:,r.i:t. They acknowledge the superiority of our understandings bcca!ufc we have abused their ignorance:
rank : they allow the justice of our authority; because B 0 K. we e hae abuse t!ii:- weakness. I might as well say. , . that the Indians are a species ol men b, :n to be cruhlbed to death ; bcca!ife there are fanatics aniong them, who throw themill·ics under the xshcls of thir idol's car berorc the til ,los' Jaglueliat. BuT these ngiocs, it is further urged, were bern flares. Ba;baii.n,, will you persuade me, that a man caa be the property of a bvreigcrn, a f the property of a father, a cfc the property of an husband, a dolmcilic the property of a malter, a negro the ,property of a planter ? Bur these l havcs have old t:cm eves. Could a man ever by compact, or by an oath permit another to uCe and abuse him ? If he alienated to titus compact, or confirmed it by an.oarh, it was in a t:anmlirt of ignorance or folly i and he is released from it the moment that he either knows himself, or his incas: rt:rns. BUT they -a:. been taken i:l war, 'what does this fig noisy to you ? fairer the toll i'rri to make wh t ill life he pleases f his own pillory. Why do you make yourselves his accomplice ? BuT they ) eee criminals contemned in tir country to slavery. WhVio was it that conllrdcine tim i Do you Cot knov.w, that in a despotic state there is i1) clil.iial but the dlipot. THE-t fulbj.t of a despotic nice is the same as the slave i a ;,te restraint to nature. IE\vcy thing thanet contributes to keep in ins fuel a hate, is a attempt agaist:t his pet on. Excry .wer v-il ses hi o the tyranny of one man, is the power ;f his cne;nies: and . those who arc .about hi: ar te authors or abettors of this violence. His mother, who ta::.;ht him the sirs Icffons of obedience; his neighbour, who set him the c;r.aple cf it; his superiors, who compelled him into this fate; and hrs ei.a';, who led him into it,by
B O 0 By their opinion: all there are the ministers and inftru.,a ments of tyranny. The tyrant can do nothing of him-self; he is only the first mover of those efforts which all his subjects exert to their own mutual oppression. He keeps them in a state of perpetual war, which renders robberies, treasons, afafi nations lawful. Thus, like the blood which flows in his veins, all crimes originate from his heart, and return thither as to their primary source. Caligula used to say, that if the whole human race had but one head, he should have taken pleasure in cutting it off. Socrates would have said, that if all crimes were heaped upon one head, that should be the one which ought to be frock off. Let us, therefore, endeavour to make the light of rea son and the sentiments of nature take place of the blind ferocity of our ancestors. Let us break the bonds of so many victims to our mercenary principles, should we even be obliged to discard a commerce which is founded only on injustice, and whose object is luxury but even this is not necessary. There is no occasion to give up those conveniences which custom hath so much endeared to us. Ve may draw them from our colonies, without peopling them with slaves. These pro dubious may be cultivated by the hands of freemen, and then be reaped without remorse the islands are filled with blacks, whose fetters have been broken. They successfully clear the small planta tions that have been given them, or which they have ac quire by their industry. Such of there unhappy men, as should recover their independence, would live in quiet upon the same manual labours, that would then be free and advantageous to them. The vassals of Denmark, who have lately been made free, have not abandoned their picughs.,I
Is it then apprehended, that the facility of acquiring B 0O K subsistence without labour, on a soil naturally fertile, and I of dispensing with the want of cloaths under a burning sky, would plunge these men in idleness ? Why then do not the inhabitants of Europe confine themselves to such labours as are of indispensable necessity ? Why do they exhaust their powers in laborious employments which tend only to the transient gratifications of a frivolous imagination ? There are amongst us a thousand professions some more laborious than others, which owe their origin to our institutions. Human laws have given rise to a variety of factitious wants, which otherwise would never have had an existence. By disposing of every species of property according to their capricious institutions they have subjected an infinite number of people to the imperious will of their fellow-creatures, so far as even to make them sing and dance for a living. We have amongst us beings, formed like ourselves, who have con seated to inter themselves under mountains, to furnish us with metals and with copper, perhaps to poison us: why do we imagine that the negroes arc less dupes and Ifs foolish than the Europeans ? AT the time that we gradually confer liberty on there unhappy beings as a reward for their oEconomy, their good behaviour, and their industry, we must be careful to subject them to our laws and manners, and to offer them our superfluities. We must give to them a country give them interests to study, productions to cultivate, and an object adequate to their respective tastes, and our colonies will never want hands, which being eased of their chains, will be more aivc and robust. IN order to overturn the whole s)ysem of slavery, which is supported by passions so universal, by laws so authentic by the mutation of such powerful nations, by pre-judices
B O O Judices still more powers!, to what tribunal shall we re-ser the cause of humanity, which so many men are in confederacy to betray ? Sovereigns of the earth, you alone can bring about this revolution. If you do not sport with the rest of mortals, if you do not regard the power of kings as the right of a successful plunder, and the obedience of subjects as artfully obtained from their ignorance reset on your own obligations. Refuse the sanction of your authority to the infamous and criminal traffic of men turned into so many herds of cattle, and this trade will cease. For once unite for the happiness of the world, those powers and designs which have been so often exerted for 'ts ruin. If time one amongst you would venture to foun.i the expectation of his opulence and grandeur on the generosity of all the rest, he instantly becomes an enemy of mankind, who ought to be de strayed. You may carry fire and sword into his territories. Your armies will on be inspired with the sacred enthusiasm of humanity. You will then perceive what difference virtue makes between men who succour the op pressed, and mercenaries who serve tyrants but what ann I saying Let the ineffectual calls of humanity be no longer pleaded with the people and their masters: perhaps, they have never been consulted in any public tranfaiiiis. If then, ye nations of Europe, in teres alone can exert its influence over you, listen tome once more: Your naves stand in no need either of your generosity or your counsels, in order to break the sacrilegious yoke of their oppression. Nature speaks a more powerful language than philosophy, or interest. Some white people, already massacred have expiated a part of our crimes; already have two colonies of fugitive negroes been established, to whom treaties and power give a per te. fc-jit' from your attempts. Poison hath at different
ferment times been the instrument of their vengeance. Se B 0 0 K vernal have eluded your oppression by a voluntary death. These enterprizes are so many indications of the impend ing torn; and the negroes only want a chief, sufficiently courageous, to lead them to vengeance and slaughter. WHERE is this great man to be found, whom nature, perhaps, owes to the honour of the human species ? Where is this new Spartacus, who will not find a Crassus ? Then will the biL,. rode lie no more ; and the Ih:ite come will be dreadful, if the conqueror only regards the right of reprisals. TILL this revolution takes places, the negroes groan under the yoke of oppression, the description of which cannot but interest us more and more in their define. THE soil of the American islands hath little resemblance Labours of to ours. Its productions are very different, as well as the manner of cultivating them. Except some pot herbs, nothing is sown there; every thing is planted. ToBAcco being the first production that was cultivated, as its roots do not strike deep, and the least injury de firoys them, a simple harrow was only employed to pre pare the lands which were to receive it, and to extirpate the noxious weeds which would have choked it. This custom still prevails. WHEN more troublesome cultures began toe attended to, which were more delicate, the hoe was made use of to work and to weed; but it is not employed over the whole extent of ground that was to be cultivated. It was thought sufficient to dig a hole for the reception of the plant. THE inequality of the ground, most commonly full of hillocks, probable gave rile to this custom. It might be apprehended, that the rains, which alvwas fall in torrent*, should dctfroy, by the cavities they make, the land thatched
B 0 K had been turned up. Indolence, and the want of means,at the time of the first settlements extended this practice to the molt level plains, and custom gave a sanction to it; which no one ever thought of deviating from. At lat some planters, who were adventurous enough to discard former prejudices, thought of using the plough, and it is probable, that this method will become general wherever it shall be found practicable. It has every circumstance in its favour that can make it desirable.,ALL the lands of the islands were virgin lands, when the Europeans undertook to clear them. The first that were occupied, have for a long time yielded less produce than they did in the beginning. Those which have been successively cleared, are likewise more or less exhausted, in proportion to the period of this first cultivation. Whatever their fertility at first might have been, they all lose it in process of time, and they will soon cease to re quite the labours of those who cultivate them, if art is not exerted to assist nature. IT is a principle of agriculture generally admitted by naturalists, that the earth becomes fertile only in pro portion as it can receive the influence of the air, and of all those meteors which are directed by this powerful agent, such as fogs, dews, and rains. Continual labour can only procure this advantage to it: the islands in particular constantly require it. The wet season must be chosen for turning up the ground, the dryness of which would be an impediment to fertility. Ploughing cannot be attended with any inconvenience in lands that are le vel. One might prevent the danger of having helping grounds destroyed by storms, by making furrows transversely on a line, that should cross that of the slope of the hillocks. If the declivity were so steep that the cul treated grounds could be carried away, notwithfanding,the
the furrows, small drains, something deeper, might be B 0 0 K added, for the same purpose, at particular distances, which would partly break the force and velocity that the steep ness of the hills adds to the fall of heavy rains. THE utility of the plough would not be merely limited to the producing a greater portion of the vegetable juice in plants ; it would make their produce the more certain. The islands are the regions of infects: their multiplication there is favoured by a constant heat, and one race succeeds another without interruption. The extensive ravages they make are well known. Frequent and successive ploughing would check the progress of this devouring race, disturb their reproduction, would kill great numbers of them, and destroy the greatest part of their eggs. Per laps this expedient would not be sufficient against the rats which hips have brought from Europe into America, where they have increased to that degree, that they often destroy one third of the crops. The industry of slaves might also be made use of, and their vigilance might be encouraged by some gratification. THE use of the plough .would probably introduce the custom of manuring; it is already known in the greatest part of the coast. The manure there in use is called varech, a kind of ea plant, which when ripe, is detached from the water, and driven on the strand by the motion of the waves: it is very productive of fertility, but if employed without previous preparation, it communicates to the fu gar a disagreeable bitterness, which muff arise from the salts that are impregnated with oily particles abounding in ea plants. Perhaps, in order to take off this bitter tate, it would only be necessary to burn the plant and make use of the ales. The salts being by this operation de tacked from the oily particles, and triturated by vegetation,
B 0 0 K tion, would circulate more freely in the sugar-cane, and Xi,, impart to it purer juices the interior parts of this country have not till lately been dunged. Necessity will make this practice become more general; and in time the soil of America will be assisted by the same methods of cultivation as the soil of Europe; but with more difficulty. In the islands where herds of cattle are not so numerous, and where there is seldom the convenience of stables, it is necessary to have recourse to other kinds of manure, and multiply them as much as possible, in order to compensate the qua city by the quantity. The greatest resource will always be found in the veers, from which useful plants nut be constant freed. These maul be collected together in heaps, and left to purify. The colonists who cultivate coffee, have set the example of this practice; but with that degree of indolence which the heat of the climate occasions in all manual labour. A pile of weeds is heaped up at the bottom of the coffee trees, without regarding whether these weeds, which the) do not even take the trouble of covering with earth, heat the tree, and harbour the infects that prey upon it. They have been equally negligent in the management of their cattle. ALL the domestic quadrupeds of Europe were imported into America by the Spaniards; and it is from their set elements that the colonies of other nations have been supplied. Excepting hogs, which are found to thrive best in countries abounding with aquatic productions, infects and reptiles, and are become larger and better tasted, all these animals have degenerated, and the few that remain in the islands are very finally. Though the badness of the climate may contribute something to this degeneracy, the wan: of care is, perhaps, the principal cause. They,always
always lie in the open field. They never have either bran B o 0 K or oats given them, and are at grass the whole year. The colonies have not even the attention of dividing the meadows into separate portions, in order to make their cattle pass from one into the other. They always feed on the fine spot, without allowing the grass time to spring up again. Such pastures can only produce weak and wa tery juices. Too quick a vegetation prevents them from being properly ripened. Hence the animals, destined for the food of man, afford only flesh that is tough and flabby. THosE animals, which are reserved for labour, do but very little service. The oxen draw but light loads, and that not all day long. They are always four in number. They are not yoked by the head, but by the neck, after the Spanish custom. They are not stimulated by the goad, but driven by a whip; and are directed by two drivers. WHEN the roads do not allow the lfe of carriages, mules are used instead of oxen. These are saddled after a simpler method than in Europe, but much inferior to it in strength. A mat is fixed on their back, to Which two hooks are suspended on each ide, the first thaf'aiaeafually met with in the woods. Thus equipped, frley-earry, at molt, half of what others carry, and do not.go over half the ground. - TwE pace of their horses is not o flow: the have pre. tfved something of the fleetnefs,-fre, and docility of the of Andalusia, from which they derived their pedigree but their (strength is not answerable to their spirit. t is' necessary to breed a great number of them, in order o obtain that service from thl;n which might be had from' smaller number in Europe. Three or four of them nut be harassed to very light carriages used by in VoL. IlL. N dolent
B O OK covert people for making excursions, which they call XL .sojourn ses, but which with us would only be an airing the degeneracy of the animals in the islands might have been prevented, retarded, or diminished, if care had been taken to renew them by foreign race. Stallions brought from colder or warmer countries, would in fore degree have corrected the influence of the climate, feed, and rearing. With the mares of the country they would have produced a new race far superior, as they would have come from a climate different from that Into which they were imported. IT rs very extraordinary, that so simple an idea should never have occurred to any of the planters; and that there has been no legislature attentive enough to its interest to substitute in its settlements the bison to the common ox. Every body that is acquainted with this animal, mutt re, collect that the bison has a softer and brighter kin, a dis. position less dull and stupid than our bullock, and a quick ness and docility far superior. It is swift in running, and when mounted can supply the place of a horse. It thrives as well in southern countries, as the ox that we employ loves the cold or temperate zones. This species i only known in the eastern islands, and in-the. greater parasol Africa. If cufor had less influence than it eoMnamynl has, even over the wisest governments, they would4hawy been sensible, that this useful animal was singularly. well adapted to the great Archipelago of America, and that it would be very easy to export it at a very. small expense from the Gold Coast, or the coast of Angola. Two rich planters, one in Barbadoes, the therein St. Domingo, equally struck with the weakness of those ai, mass, which, according to established custom, were em. played in drawing and carrying, endeavoured to fubti. tune the camel to them. This experiment, formeril,tiei
tried without success in Peru by the Spaniards, did not B O 0 K succeed better here, nor was it possible it should. It is well X known, that though a native of hot countries, it dreads excessive heat, and can as little thrive as propagate under the burning sky of the torrid zone, as in the temperate ones. It .would have been better to have tried the buffalo. THE buffalo is a very dirty animal, and of a fierce disposition Its caprices are sudden and frequent. Its skin is firm, light, and almost impenetrable, and its horn ser viceable for many purposes. Its flesh is black and hard, and disagreeable to the taste and smell. The milk of the female is not so sweet, but much more copious than that ofthecowi Reared like the ox, with which it has a striking resemblance, it greatly surpasses it in strength and swiftness. Two buffaloes, yoked to a waggon by means of a ring passed through their nose, will draw as much as four of. the stoutest bullocks, and in less than half the ime. They owe this double superiority to the ad vantage of having longer legs, and a more considerable bulk of body, the whole power of which is employed in drawing, because they naturally carry their neck and head o)pw A this animal is originally a native of the torrid conte and is larger, stronger, and more manageable in proportion to the heat of the country it is in, it cannot ever have been doubted that it would be of great service in the Caribbees and propagate happily there. This is highly probable, especially since the successful experiments that have been made of it at Guiana. INDOLENCE, and old established customs, which have hindered the propagation of domestic animals, have no leis impeded the success of transplanting vegetables. Se vernal kinds of fruit-trees haviebeen successively carried to the islands. Those that have not died, are some wilds 2 socks,
B K flocks, whose fruit is neither beautiful nor good. The ,I greatest part have degenerated very fast, because they have been exposed to a very strong vegetation, ever lively, and constantly quickened by the copious dews of the night, and the f long heats of the day, which are the two grand principles of fertility. Perhaps, an intelligent observer would have known how to profit from these circum fiances, and have been able to raise tolerable fruit; but such men are not found in the colonies. If our kitchen herbs have succeeded better; if they are always springing again, always green, and mature; the reason is, that they have not to struggle against the climate, where they experienced a ois and clammy earth, which is proper for them; and because they required no trouble. The labour of the aves is employed in the cultivation of more useful productions. THE principal labours of these unhappy men,. are di read towards those objeas that are indispensable to ths preservation of their wretched existence. Except in th islands that are occupied by the Spaniards, where thing are very nearly in the same state as they were at the arrival o the Europeans in the new world, those productions, which were sufficient for the savages, have diminished in proportion as they have destroyed the forests, in order to form planta tions. It was necessary to procure other subsistence, an the principal which ought to have been fought for hav been drawn from the country itself of the new-comers.,AFrICA has furnished the islands with a grub, whic grows to the height of four feet, lives four years, and useful throughout its whole duration. It bears hull which contain five or fix grains of a species of a ver wholesome and very nourishing pea. Every part belong ing to this shrub is remarkable for some particular vii tue. Its blossom is good for a cough; its leaves whe,boile
boiled are applied to wounds, and of the ashes of this B 0 0 K plant is made a lixivium, which cleanses ulcers and diffi- X pates the external inflammations of the skin. This flSrub is called the Angola pea. It flntiriflhes equally in lands naturally barren, and in those whose salts have been ex hauled. For this reason, the best managers amongst the colonists never fail to sow it on all those parts of their estates, which in other hands would remain uncultivated. THE most valuable present, however, which the islands have received from Africa, is the manioc. Most historians have considered this plant as a native of America. It does not appear on what foundation this opinion is supported, though pretty generally received. But were the truth of it demonstrated, the Caribbees would yet stand indebted for the manioc to the Europeans, who imported it thither along with the Africans, who fed upon it. Be fore our invasions, the intercourse between the continent of America and these isles, was so trifling, that a production of the Terra Firma might be unknown in the Archipelago of the Antilles. It is certain, however, that the savages who offered our first navigators bananas, yams, 2nd potatoes, offered them no manioc; that the Caribbees in the center between Dominica and St. Vincent, had it from us ; that the character of the savages did not render them fit to conduct so nice a culture ; that it requires very open fields, and in the forests, with which these islands were overgrown, there were no clear and unincumbered (paces of ground above five and twenty toises square. In short, it is beyond a doubt, that the use of the manioc was not known till after the arrival of the ne goes, and that from time immemorial it hath constituted the principal food of a great part of Africa. HOwEVER this may be, the manioc is a plant which is propagated by sips. It is set in furrows that are five oran 3 fix
B0 0 K fix inches deep, which are filled with the same earth that -v" has been digged out. These furrows are at the distance of,two feet, or two feet and a half from each other, accord ing to the nature of the ground. The grub rises a little above fix feet, and its trunk is about the thickness of the arm. In proportion as it grows, the lower leaves fall off, and only a few remain towards the top ; its wood is tender and brittle. Tars is a delicate plant; whose cultivation is trouble some; ard the vicinity of all forts of grass is prejudicial to it. It requires a dry and light soil; its fruit is at its root, and if this root is taken by the motion the wind occasions to the body of the plant, the fruit is formed but im perfectly. It takes eighteen months before it grows to maturity.,IT is not rendered fit for human food till after it has undergone a tedious preparation. Its sires skin mud be scraped ; it must be wailed, rasped, and pressed, to extract the aqueous parts, which are a flow poison, against which there is no remedy known. The preparation causes every noxious particle it might still contain, totally to evaporate. When there appears no more steam, it is taken off the iron plate, on which it was prepared, and suffered to cool. Repeated experiments have shewn, that it was almost as dangerous to eat it hot as to eat it raw. THE roots the manioc grated, and reduced into little grains by boiling, is called flour of manioc. The pale of manioc is called cassava, which hath been converted into a cake by boiling it without stirring. It would be dangerous to eat as much cassava as flour of manioc, be cause the former is left boiled. Both keep a long time, and are very nourishing, but a little difficult of digestion. Though they seem at first insipid, there are a great num-ber
ber of white people, who have been born in there islands, B 0 o K,XI. who prefer them to the best wheat. All the Spaniards in general, use it constantly. The French feed their saves with it. The other European nations, who have Settlements in the islands, are little acquainted with the manioc. It is from North America that there colonies receive their subsistence; so that if by any accident, whkh may very possibly take place, their connections with this fertile country were interrupted but for four months, they would behaved. An avidity that hath no bounds, makes iheinfular colonists insensible of this imminent danger. All, at least the greater part, find their advantage in turning the whole industry of their slaves towards those productions which are the objects of commerce. The principal of these are, cocoa, rocou, cotton, indigo, and coffee. We hall elsewhere speak of their cultivation, value, and destination. We shall at present consider only the cul taxation of sugar, whose produce alone is more im portant than that of all the other commodities. THE cane that yields the sugar, is a kind of reed, which commonly rises eight or nine feet, taking in the leaves growing out of the top of it. Its most ordinary thickness is from two to four inches. It is covered with a harding rind, which incloses a spungy substance. It is intersected at intervals with joints, that serve as it were to strengthen and support it; but without impeding the circulation of the sap, because thefejoints are soft and pithy in the inside. THIS plant hath been cultivated from the earlier an antiquity in some countries of Asia and Africa. About the middle of the twelfth century, it became known in Sicily, from whence it passed into the southern provinces of Spain. It was afterwards transplanted into Madeira and,N 4 the
B O 0 K the Canaries. From these islands it was brought into the X new world, where it throve as happily as if it had been,an original native of it.,ALL foils are not equally proper for it. Such as are rich and strong, low and marshy, environed with woods, or lately cleared, however large and tall the canes may be, produce only a juice that is aqueous, insipid, of a bad quality, difficult to be boiled, purified, and preserved. Canes planted in a ground where they on meet with soft stone or rock, have but a very short duration, and yield but little sugar. A light, porous, and deep soil, is by nature most favourable to this production. THE general method of cultivating it, is to prepare a large field; to make at the distance of three feet from one another, furrows eighteen inches long, twelve broad, and fix deep; to lay in these, two, and sometimes three, flaps of about a foot each, taken from the upper part of the cane, and to cover them lightly with earth. From each of the joints in the alps issues a fen, which in time becomes a sugar-cane. CARE should be taken to clear it constantly from the weeds, which never fail to grow around it. This labour only continues for fix months. The canes then are sus friendly thick and near one another to destroy every thing that might be prejudicial to their fertility. They are commonly suffered to grow eighteen months, and are seldom cut at any other time. F.c-.l the flock of there hue suckers, which are is their turn cut fifteen months after. This second cutting yields only half of the produce of the first. The planters sometimes make a third cutting, and even a fourth, which are always successively less, however good the soil may e. Nothing, therefore, but want of hands supplanting
planting afresh can oblige a planter to expel more than B 0 0 K two crops from his ene. I 1 These crops are not made in all the colonies at the same time. In the Danish, Spanish and Dutch fettle ments, they begin in January and continue till October. This method does not imply any fixed season for the ma purity of the sugar cane. This plant, however, like others, muff have its progress; and it has been juftlyob- served to be in flower in the months of November and December. It mull necessarily follow, from the custom these nations have adopted of continuing to gather their crops fourteen months without intermission, that they cut orme canes which are not ripe enough, and others that are too ripe, and then the fruit has not the requisite qualities. This harvest should have a fixed sea son, and probably the months of March and April are the fittest for it: nor do they prefer this time because they are then riper ; but the drought which prevails in their islands renders the rains which fall il September necessary to their planting ; and as the canes are eighteen months in growing, this period always brings them to the precise point of maturity. IN order to extract the juice of the cut canes, which ought to be done in four and twenty hours, otherwise it would turn four, they pass them between two cylinders of iron, or copper, placed perpendicularly on an immoveable table. The motion of the cylinders is re gutted by an horizontal wheel turned by oxen, or horses; but in water-mills this horizontal wheel derives its movement from a perpendicular one, whose circum france meeting a current of water, receives an impression which turns it upon its axis: this motion is from right to left, if the current of water strikes the underpart
BO K part of the wheel; from left to right, if the current, . . shrikes the lower part from the reservoir, where the juice of the cane is received, it falls into a boiler where those particles ol water are made to evaporate that are most easily separate. ed. This liquor is poured into another boiler, where a moderate fire makes it throw up its first scum. When it hath lost its clammy confidence it is made to run into a third boiler, where it throws up much more scum b) means of an increased degree of heat. It then receive the lait boiling in a fourth cauldron whose fire is three times stronger than the first. THIS last fire decides the fate of the process. If it hate been well managed the sugar forms crystals that are lar ger or smaller, more or less bright, in proportion to th greater or less quantity of oil they abound with. If the fire hath been too violent the substance is reduced to black and charcoal extract which cannot produce any mon essential salt. If the fire hath been too moderate, there re. mains a considerable quantity of extraneous oils, which distinguish the sugar, and reader it thick and blackish; that when it is to be dried, it becomes always porous, be cause the spaces which these oils filled up remain empty As soon as the sugar is cool it is poured into farther vessels of a conic figure, the base of the cone is open, it top has a hole, through which the water is poured tha has not formed any crystals. This is called the syrup After this water hath flowed through, the raw sugar re mains, which is rich, brown and salt. THE greatest part of the islands leave to Europe th, care of giving sugar the other preparations which are ne cesare to make it fit for use. This practice spares the ex pence of large buildings, leaves them more black to employ in agriculture, allows them to make thei,cul
cultures without any interruption for two or three months B O O K together, and employs a greater number of hips for ex X . potation. THE French planters alone have thought it their interest to manage their sugars in a different manner. To what ever degree of exactness the juice of the sugar-cane may be boiled, there always remains an infinite number of foreign particles to the salts of the sugar, to which they appear to be what lees are to wine. These give it a dead colour, and the taste of tartar, of which they endeavour to deprive it, by an operation called farthing. This conlftis in putting again the raw sugars into a new earthen velle, in every respect similar to that we have mentioned. Thefurface of the sugar, throughout the whole extent of the basis of the cone, is then covered with a white marl on which they pour water. In filtering it through this marl, the water carries with it a portion of a calcareous earth, which it finds upon the different saline particles, when this earth meets with oily substances to which it is unit ed. This water is afterwards drained off through the opening at the top of the mould, and a second syrup is procured, which they call molasses, and which is o much the worse, in proportion as the sugar was finer; that is, contained less extraneous oil: for then the cal carious earth, dissolved by the water, passes alone, and carries with it all its acrimony. THIS farthing is followed by the last preparation, which is effected by fire, and serves for the evaporating of the moisture with which the acts are impregnated, during the process of farthing. In order to obtain this, they take out the sugar in its whole form out of the co nicol vessel of the earth, convey it it into a stove which receives from an iron furnace a gentle and gradual heat, where it is left till the sugar is become very dry,,which
B O OK which commonly happens at the end of two or three XI.,weeks. TouGH the expence which this process requires, is in general thrown away, since the earthed sugar is com monty refined in Europe in the same manner as the raw sugar; all the inhabitants of the French islands, how ever, who are able to purify their sugars in this manner, generally take this trouble. To a nation where marine is weak, this method is extremely advantageous, as it enables them, in times of war, to convey into their own metropolis the most valuable cargoes with a lets number of ships than if they prepared only raw sugars. ONE may judge from these species of sugars, but much better from that, which has undergone the farthing, of what fort of salts it is composed. If the soil, where the cane hath been planted, is hard, stony, and Sloping, the salts will be white, angular, and the grain very large. If the soil is marly, the colour will be the same; but the granulations, being cut on fewer sides, will reflect less light. If the soil is rich and spungy, the granulations will be nearly spherical, the colour will be dusky, the sugar will flip under the finger, without any unequal feel. This last sugar is considered as the worst whatever may be the reason, those places that have a northern aspect produce the best sugar; and marly grounds yield the greatest quantity. The preparations which the sugar that grows in these kinds of soil re quire, are less tedious and troublesome than those which the sugar requires that is produced in a rich land. But these observations admit of infinite variety, whose in ventilation is properly the province of chymists or speculative planters.,BE-
BESIDES sugar, the cane furnishes syrup, 'whose value B O 0 K,XI. is only a twelfth of that of the price of sugars. The best syrup is that which runs from the first vessel into the second, when the raw sugar is made. It is composed of the grosser particles which carry along with them the faltsof sugar, whether it contains or separates them in its passage. The syrup of an inferior kind, which is more bitter, and less in quantity, is formed by the water which carries off the tartarus and earthy particles of the sugar when it is wailed. By means of fire, one sugar is besides extracted from. the first syrup, which, after this operation, i of less value than the second. BoTH these kinds are carried into the North of Eu rope, where the people use them instead of butter and sugar. In :North America they make the same use of them, where they are further employed to give fermentations and an agreeable taste to a liquor called P-rus, which is only an infusion of the bark of a tree. This-syrup is fill more useful, by the secret that has been discovered of converting it by distillation, into a spirituous liquor which the Eglifl call Rum, and the French T7ffia. This process, which is very simple, is made by mixing a third part of syrup with two-thirds of water. When there two substances have sufficiently ser melted, which commonly happens at the end of twelve or fifteen days, they are put into a clean still, where the distillation is made as usual. The liquor that is drawn off is equal to the quantity of the syrup employed. SucH is the method which, after many experiments, and variations, all the islands have generally pursued in the cultivation of fugit. It is undoubtedly a good one; but, perhaps, it hath not acquired that degree of perfection of which it is capable. One may be allowed to conjecture, that if instead of planting canes in large,fields,
B3 K fields, they parcelled out the ground into divisions of . sixty see, leaving betwixt two planted divisions a spaces land uncultivated, such a method would he attended with great advantages. In the modern practice, none but the canes on the borders are of a fine growth, and attain to a proper degree of maturity. Those in the middle of the field in part miscarry, and ripen badly, be cause they are deprived of a current of air, which only ads by its weight, and seldom gets to the foot of these canes that are always covered with the leaves. IN this new system of plantation, those portions of land which had not been cultivated would be most fa, favourable for reproduction; when the crops of the planted divisions had been made, which in their turn would be left to recover. It is probable, that by this method as much sugar might be obtained as by the present practice; with this additional advantage, that it would require fewer slaves to improve it. One may judge what the cultivation of sugar would then produce, by what itnow yields notwithstanding its imperfections.,ON a plantation fixed on a good ground, and sufficiently stocked with blacks, with cattle, and all other necessaries, two men will cultivate a square of canes, that is, a hundred geometrical paces. This square must yield on an average sixty quintals of raw sugar. The common price of a quintal in Europe will be. twenty livres,(a) after deducting all the expences. This makes an income of 600 liures,(b) for the labour of each man. One hundred and fifty livres,(r) to which the price of syrup and rum must be added, will defray the expences of cul taxation, that is to say, for the maintenance of slaves, for their lo, their disorders, their clothes, and repairing their utensils, and other accidents. The net produce of an acre and half of land will then be four hundredfold (a) z1;. 6d. (b) 261 . (c) 61. ills. d.
and sifty.(d) It would be difficult to find a culture pro R 0 0 K,XI. duaive of greater emoluments. IT may be objected, that this is fitting the produce below its real value, because a square of canes does not employ two men. But those who would advance this oblivion ought to observe, that the making of sugar re. quires other labours than those of merely cultivating it, and consequently workmen employed elsewhere than in the fields. .The estimate and compensation of these different kinds of service, oblige us to deduct from the produce of a square of plantation, the expence of maintaining two men. IT is principally with their sugar that the islands fur nil their planters with all the articles of convenience and luxury. They draw from Europe our, liquors, salt, provisions, silks, linens, hardware; and. every thing that is required for apparel, food, furniture ornament conveniences and even their luxuries. Their consumptions of every kind are prodigious, and must necessarily influence the manners of the inhabitants, the greatest part of whom are rich and can well afford them. IT fliuld seem that the Europeans, who've been Ch'racer,of the Eu. transplanted from America, must no less have degene- romans rated than the animals which they carried over thither. fitted in The climate as on all living beings; but men being less immediately subject to the laws of nature, resist her influence the more, because they are, the only beings, who at for themselves. The sirs colonies, who fettled in the Antilles, corrected the activity of a new sky, and a new soil, by the conveniences which it was in their power to derive from a commerce that Was always open with their former country. They learnt to lodge and maintain themselves in a manner the beef adapted to the change of situation. They retained the customs of their education, and every thing that could agree with the natural laws W) 191. 31. 9d.
B O K lawson the air they breathed-with hesse they carried XI. ; . ,into America the food and usages of Europe, and familiarised to each-other, beings and productions which na ture had separated by an interval of the same extent as a Zone. But of all their primitive curtis, the moll fall. mary, perhaps, was that of mingling and dividing the two races by intermarriages. ALL nations, even the least civilized, have proscribed an union of sexes between the children of the same fa mile; whether it was, that experience or prejudice dictated this law, or chance naturally led them to it. Be kings brought up together in infancy, accustomed to see one another continually, in this mutual familiarity, ra ther contra that indifference which arises from habit, than that lively and impetuous sensation of sympathy, which suddenly assets two beings, who never saw one another. If inthe savage life hunger disunites families, love undoubtedly muff have reunited them. ThelBifory, whether true or fabulous, of the, rape. of the Sabine women, that marriage was the firil alliance of nations; Thus the blood will be more intermixed by the casual meetings occasioned by a wandering life, or by the con mentions and agreements of fettled communities The natural advantage of crossing the breed among men, as well as animals, in order to preserve the species from de generating, is the result of flow experience, and is posterior to the acknowledged utility of uniting families, in order to cement the peace cf society. Tyrants very earl) understood how far it was proper for them to separate, or conned their subjects, in order to keep them in a ate of dependence. They formed men into separate ranks by their prejudices: because this line of division between them became a bond of submission to the sovereign, who ballanced them together by their mutual hatred and opposition,
position. They connected families to each other in every B 0 0 K,XI. station, because this union totally extinguished every spark . of dissention repugnant to the spirit of civil society. Thus the intermixture of pedigrees and families by mar rage, has been rather the result of political institutions, than formed upon the views of nature. BuT whatever be the natural principle and moral ten deny of this custom, it was observed by the Europeans, who were willing to multiply in the islands. The great et part of them married either in their own country, before they removed into the new world, or with those who landed there. The European married a Creole, or the Creole an European, whom chance or family connexions brought into America. From this happy association hath been formed a peculiar character, which in the two worlds distinguishes the man born under the ky of the ne,, but from parents that are the issue of both. The remarks of this character will be pointed out with so much the more certainty, as they are drawn from the writings of an accurate observer, from whom we have already drawn some particulars respecting natural history. The Creoles are in general well made. One can hardly see a single person afflicted with those deformities which are so common in other climates. They have all an extreme suppleness in their limbs; whether it is to be attributed to a particular organization adapted to hot countries, or to the custom of their being reared without the confinement of waddling cloaths, and flays, or to the exercise they are habituated to from their in any. Their complexion, however, never has that air of vivacity and freshness which contributes more to beauty han regular features do. As to their colour, when they are n health, it resembles that of persons j tuft recovering from VOL. III. a fit
B 0 0 K a fit of illness; but this livid complexion, more or les xI. . . dark, is nearly that of our southern people their intrepidity in war has been signalized bya series of bold lions. There would be no better fol tiers, if they were more capable of being disciplined history does not afford any of those instances of cowardice, treachery and meanness among them, which fully the annals of all nations. It can hardly be alledged, that a Creole ever did a mean action. ALL strangers, without exception, find in the islands, the most friendly and generous hospitality. This useful virtue is practised with an ostentation, which shews, at last, the honour they attach to it. Their natural propensity to beneficence banishes avarice; and the Creoles are generous in their dealings. THEY are strangers to dissimulation, craft and fufpi. cion. The pride they take in their frankness, the opt. non they have of themselves, together with their ex tree vivacity, exclude from their commercial transact tions all that mystery and reserve, which stifles natura goodness of disposition, extinguishes the social spirit, ae blunts our sensibility. A warm imagination, incapable of any restraint, ren ders them independent and inconstant in their taste. I constantly hurries them with fresh ardour into pleasure to which they sacrifice both their fortune and their who existence. A remarkable degree of penetration, a quick facility i seizing all ideas, and expressing themselves with vivacity) The power of combining added to the talent of bferva tion, a happy mixture of all the qualities of mind and chi rarer, which render men capable of the greatest aion will make them attempt every thing, when oppreflic compels them to it.,TY
The harp and saline air of the Caribbees deprives the B o O K women of that lively colour which is the beauty of their x. sex. But they have a delicate white complexion, which allows the eyes all their power, and conveys into the foul such deep impressions as are irresistible. As they are ex extremely sober, they drink nothing but chocolate, coffee and such spirituous liquors as restore to the organs their tone and vigour enervated by the climate while the men are continually drinking proportion to the heat that exhausts them. THEY are very prolific, and often mothers of ten ortwelvechildren. This propagation proceeds from love which strongly attaches them to the man they possess; bt which also throws them instantly into the arms of another whenever death has dissolved the union of a first or second marriage. JEALoUS even to diffraction, they are seldom unfaithful. That indolence, which makes them neglect the means of pleasing, the degradingtafte which the men have for negro women, their manner of life, private or public, which pre eludes the opportunities or temptations to gallantry; these are the best supports of the virtue of there females. THE solitary manner in which they live in their houses gives them an air of timidity, which embarrasses them in their intercourse with the world. They lose, even in early life, the spirit of emulation and choice, and this pre vents them from cultivating the agreeable talents of education. They seem to have neither power nor tale for any thing but dancing, which undoubtedly transports and animates them to higher pleasures. This instinct of pleasure attends them through all the stages of life; whether it is, that they fill retain some share of their youthful sensibility, or are stimulated with the recollect. tion of it; or from other reasons which are unknown to us.,0 2, From
BO O K FROM this constitution arises such an extremely fenfib X and sympathizing, character, that they cannot even be;,the fight of misery ; though they are, at the farr time, rigid and severe with refpea to the service the require of those domestics that are attached to the person. More despotic and inexorable towards the laves than the men themselves, they feel no remorse ordering chastisements, the severity of which would be punishment and a lesson to them, if they were obliged inflict them themselves, or were witnesses to them. THIS slavery of the negroes is, perhaps, the cause fro whence the Creoles in part derive a certain character, whip makes them appear strange, fantastic, and of an intercourse notch relished in Europe. From their earliest infant they are accustomed to see a number of tall and stout me about them, whose business it is to conjecture and antic pate their wishes. This sirs view must immediately infpi them with the most extravagant opinion of themselve Seldom meeting with any opposition to their caprice, th ever so unreasonable, they assume a spirit of presumption tyranny and disdain for a great part of mankind. Nothij is more insolent than the man who always lives with 1 inferiors; but when these happen to be slaves, habitual to wait upon children, to dread even their cries, wbi must expose them to punishment, what must masters 1 come who have never obeyed; wicked men who ha never been punished ; and madmen' who are used to q their fellow-creatures in irons? So cruel an example of dependence gives the America that pride which must necessarily be detested in Europ where a greater equality among men teaches them a great mutual respect. Educated without knowing either pa or labour, they are neither able to surmount a difficult or bear contradiction. Nature hath given them eve
advantage, and fortune refused them nothing. In this B o O K,XI. respect, like most kings, they are unhappy because they , have never experienced adversity. If the climate did not strongly excite them to love, they would not taste a ingle true pleasure: and yet they have seldom the happiness of forming an idea of those passions, which thwarted by obstacles and refusals, are fed with tears, and gratified with virtue. If they weren't confined by the laws of Europe, which govern them by their wants, and repress restrain the extraordinary degree of independence they enjoy, they would fall into a softness and effeminacy which would render them sooner or late the aims of their own tyranny, or would fink them into a state of anarchy that would overturn all the foundations of their community. BUT if they once ceased to have negroes for slaves, and kings who live at a distance from them for masters, they, perhaps, would become the most astonishing people that ever appeared on the earth. The spirit of liberty which they would imbibe from their earliest infancy, the under Landing and abilities which they would inherit from Eu rope' the aivity, which the necessity of repelling numerous enemies would inspire; the large colonies they would have to form ; the rich commerce they would have tobfondbn an immense cultivation; the ranks and societies they would have to create; and the maxims, laws and manners they would have to establish on the principles of reason : all there springs action would, perhaps, make lean equivocal and miscellaneous race of people, the most flourishing 'nation that philosophy and humanity could vfli for the happiness of the world. IF ever any fortunate revolution should take place in the world, it will begin in America. After having experienced such devastation, this new world must flourish in its turn, ind, perhaps, command the old. It will become the,0 3 asylum
B O O K asylum of our people who have been oppressed by XI. political establishments, or driven away by war. The savage inhabitants will be civilized, and oppressed strangers will become free. But it is necessary that this change hould be preceded by conspiracies, commotions, and calamities; and that a hard and laborious education hould pre dispose their minds both to ac and to sussex. YE young Creoles, come into Europe to exercise and praise what we teach you, there to collect in the pre. pious remains of our ancient manners, that vigour which we have lost, there to study our weakness, and draw from our follies themselves those lessons of wisdom which produce great event'. Leave in America your negroes, whole condition distresses us, and whose blood, perhaps, is mingled in all those ferments which alter, corrupt, and destroy our population. Fly from an education of ty. fanny, effeminacy and vice, which you contract from the habit of living with slaves, whose stupidity inspire you with none of those elevated and virtuous sentiment! which can only give rise to a people that will become fa. mous. America hath poured all the sources of corruption on Europe. To complete its vengeance, it gulf dray from it all the instruments of its prosperity. As it has bee destroyed by our crimes, it must be renewed by our vices nature seems to have defined the Americans to; greater hare of happiness than the Europeans. In th islands are scarcely known such diseases as the gout gravel, tone, apoplexies, pleurisies, complaints of th chest, and other disorders, which winter occasions. Non of those £courses of the human race which are so fats in other countries, have ever made the least ravage there If the air of the country can be withstood and the middle age be attained to, this is sufficient to insure a long and happy cours¢ of life. There oli,zg
ege is not tottering, languishing, and beset with those B O 0 K,XI. infirmities which affect it in our climate. IN the Caribbees, however, new born infants are at Dicl'tei to tacked with a disease which seems peculiar to the torrid Ewich the zone: it is called etaios. If a child receives the im-are subject pression of the air or wind, if the room where it is just minds. born is exposed to smoke, to too much heat or cold, the disorder hews itself immediately. It first seizes thejaw, which becomes rigid and fixed, so as not to be opened. This spasm soon communicates itself to the other parts of the body; and the child dies for want of being able to take nourishment. If it escapes this danger, which threatens the nine first days of its existence, it has no thing to fear. he indulgences which are allowed to children before they are weaned, which is at the end of the twelve months, such as the use of coffee, chocolate, wine, but especially sugar and sweetmeats ; these indulgences that are so pernicious to our children, are offered to those of America by nature, which accessions them in early age to the productions of their climate. THE fair sex, naturally weak and delicate, has its in infirmities as well as its charms. In the islands they are subjea to a weakness, an almost total decay of their strength; an unconquerable aversion for all kind of wholesome food, and an irregular craving after every thing that is prejudicial to their health. Salt or spiced food is what they only relish and desire. This disease is a true cachexy, which commonly degenerates into a dropsy. It is attributed to the diminution of the catamenia in those women who come from Europe, and to the weakness or total suppression of that periodical discharge in Creoles. THE men, more robust, are liable to more violent com plaints. In this vicinity of the equator, they are exposed,04 to
B 0 0 K to a hot and malignant fever, known under differential, names, and indicated by haemorrhages. The blood which,is boiling under the fervent rays of the fun, is discharged from the nose, eyes, and other parts of the body: nature in temperate climates does not move with such rapidity, but that in the most acute disorders there is time to ob. serve and follow the course she takes. In the islands, her progress is so rapid, that if we day to attack the disorder, as soon as it appears, its effects are certainly fatal. Thus it is, that the patient in the space of twenty-four hours must be bled fifteen or eighteen times, while in the intervals he has recourse to other remedies. No sooner is a person seized with sickness, but the physician, the lawyer, and the priest, are all called to his bed-side.,MosT of those who survive these violent hocks, being exhausted by the manner in which they have been treated, recover very slowly and with difficulty. Several fall into an habitual weakness, occasioned by the debility of the whole machine, whom innoxious air of the country and the little nourishment their food supplies, are not able to restore. Hence obstructions, jaundice, and swelling of the spleen, are produced, which sometimes terminate in dropsies. ALMOST all the Europeans who land in America, are exposed to this danger, and frequently the Creoles them flies on their return from more temperate climates. But it never attacks women whose blood has the natural evacuations and negroes, who, born under a hotter climate, are inured by nature, and prepared by a free perspiration, for all the ferments that the fun can producers is certainly owing to the fun, the heat of whose rays, being less oblique, and more constant than in our climates, occasions there violent fevers. Its heat mull inevitably produce a thickening of the blood through the exccj of perspiration, a want of elasticity in the solids,,a dila-
a dilatation of the vessels by the impulse of the fluids, B 0 0 I whether in proportion to the rarefaction of the air, or the less degree of compression which the surface of the bodies is exposed to in a rarefied atmosphere. Some of these inconveniences might, perhaps, be prevented by purging and bleeding on the passage as we advanced toward the torrid zone; by repeating there pre cautions in the islands, and by the use of the cold bath. BUT far from having recourse to there expedients, which reason indicates, the inhabitants fail into such excesses as are the most likely to hasten and increase the disorder. The strangers who arrived the Caribbees, are excited by the en entertainments they are invited to, the pleasures they partake of, and the kind reception they meet with; every thing in duces them to an immoderate indulgence of all the pleasures which custom renders lets prejudicial to thole who are born under this climate. Feasting, dancing, gaming, late hours, wine, cordials, and frequently the chagrin of disappoint ment in their imaginary expectations, conspire to add to the ferment of an immoderate heat of the blood, which soon becomes inflamed. WITVl- such indulgence, it is scarce possible to resist the heats of this climate, and even the greatest precautions are not sufficient to secure persons from the at tack of those dangerous fevers; when the most sober, and moderate men, who are the most averse from every kind of excess; and the most careful in all their actions, are victims to the new air they breathe. In the present state of the colonies, of ten men that go into the islands, four English die, three French, three Dutch, three Danes, and one Spaniard. WHEN it was observed how many men were lost in there regions, at the time they were first occupied, it was,generally
B 0 0 Generally thought, that the states who had the ambitions fettling there would be depopulated in the end. Advan- EXPERIENCE hath altered the public opinion upon this tholes nat point. In proportion as these colonies have extended onsthataretheir plantations, they have been supplied with more in posses ion poe th means of expence. These new means have opened into Jiuds. their mother country new sources of consumption. The,increase in exportations, could not take place without a increase of labour. These labours have brought together a greater number of men, which will ever be the case when the means of subsistence are multiplied. Even foreigners have resorted in great multitudes into those kingdoms, which opened a field to their ambition and ind fire. POPULATION not only increase among the proprietor of the islands, but the people have also become mon happy. Our felicity in general is proportioned to ou conveniences, and it must increase as we can vary and ex tend them. The iflands'have been productive of this ad vantage to their possessors: They have drawn from thes fertile regions a number of commodities, the consumption of which hath added to their enjoyments. They he drawn some, which when exchanged for others among their neighbours, have made them partake of the luxuries of other climates. In this manner, the kingdoms which have acquired the possession of the islands, by luck circumstances, or by well combined project, are become the residence of the arts, and of all the polite amusement which are a natural and necessary consequence of great plenty but this is not the only advantage: these colonie have raised the nations that founded them, to a superiority of influence in the political world, in the following man er: Gold and filer, which form the general circulation
of Europe, come from Mexico, Peru, and Brazil. They B 00 K belong neither to the Spaniards nor the Portuguese, but to the people, who give their merchandise in exchange for there metals. These people have accounts between them, that are ultimately fettled at Lisbon and Cadiz, which maybe looked upon as a common and universal re monitory. It is in these places that one muff judge of the increase or decline of the trade of each nation. That nation whose accounts of sale and purchase are kept in ballance with others, acquires its interest entire. That which hath purchased more than it hath sold, with draws less than its interest ; because it hath ceded a part of it, in order to satisfy the demands of the nation to which it was indebted. That which has sold more to other nations, than it hath purchased of them, does not only get what was owing from Spain and Portugal, but also the profit it has derived from other nations with whom it hath made exchanges. This last advantage is peculiar to the people who possess these lands. Their ca vital is annually increased by the sale of the valuable pro dubious of these countries ; and the augmentation of their flock confirms their superiority, and renders them the arbiters of peace and war. But we shall explain, in the following Book, how far each nation hath increased its power by the possession of the island send OF THE ELEVENTH BOOK.,BOOK
BOOK XII.,BOOK XII. Srttir'rrnts f te Spaniards, the Duncan the Danes,,in the American islands. A Spanih T H E honour of having discovered the great Archie o.d on pelqgo of the Caribbees, and of having formed the first the banks settlements on them is due to Spain. The most ad of the Oronooko. danced of these from the American continent, is called The use Trinidad. Columbus landed on it in 498, when he that has, and might discovered the Oronooko ; but other objects interfering, have been both the island and the coasts of the neighbouring conti made of it.,nent were at that time neglected. But the lustre of the gold, which had been seen from a distance glittering on the Shore, caused them to be revisited by the nation, which had firth made the discovery. The conquest of those immense regions, which are watered by one of the largest and richer rivers of the universe, was resolved upon; and the island of Trinidad, situated at the mouth of the Oronooko, was peopled, in order to insure and facilitate the execution of so great an enterprize. An island has always the advantage of a continent, when, having but a small extent of country to defend, it has avery
very large one to attack; as was the case in the present B 0 O K instance. . THE river Oronooko, which, as is commonly be lived, springs from the Cordeleras, after being increased in a course of five hundred and seventy-five leagues by the influx of a great number of rivers of diifcrcnt magnitude, empties itself into the ocean by more than fifty channels. Its impetuosity is so great, that it firms the molt powerful tides and preserves the freshness of its waters to the distance of twelve leagues from tat vast and deep channel within which it was confined. But this rapidity is not always equal, and owes its varia tions to a circumstance, perhaps, entirely peculiar. The Oronooko, in the month of April, begins to swell, and con tenues to rise during five months; the sixth it remain's at its greatest height: in Otober, it begins to subside, and falls gradually till the month of March, during which it continues in a fixed slate of its greatest diminution These alternate changes are regular even to certainty THIS Phenomenon, the cause of which is not known, seems to depend much more on the sea than on the land. In the fix months that the river is rising, the hemisphere of the new world presents nothing but seas, at leafs, but little land to the perpendicular aion of the rays of the fun." In the fix months of its fall, America exhibits nothing but dry landto the planet, by which it is illuminated The sea, at this time, is less subject to the influence of the fun, or, at leaf, its current towards the eastern shore is more ballanced, more broken by the land, and must, therefore, leave a freer course to the rivers, which, not being then o strongly tied by the ea, cannot be swelled but by rains, or by the melting of the snows from the Cordeleras. Perhaps, indeed, the trifng,of
B O O Kos the waters of the Oronooko may depend entirely on, the rainy season. But to be thoroughly acquainted with,the causes of so singular a phenomenon, it would be ne cesare to consider, how far the course of this river may be affected by that of the Amazons, and to know the track and direction both of the one and the other. From the difference of their situation, their source, and their opening into the sea, it is not improbable, that the cause of so remarkable a difference in the periods of their flux and reflux might be discovered. All things are connected in this worldly system. The courses of rivers depend either on the diurnal or annual revolutions of the earth. Whenever an enlightened people hall acquire a know ledge of the banks of the Oronooko, they will discover, or, at least, they will endeavour to discover the causes of these phoenomena. But their endeavours will be attend ed with difficulties. The river is not so navigable as it might be presumed, from its magnitude; its bed is in many places, filled up with rocks, which oblige the na viator at times to carry both his boats and the mer chastise they are laden with the people, who border on this river, but little di. tant from the burning Line, inhabiting a country, per laps, two fruitful to have been cultivated, know neither the trouble of clothes, the restraints of police, nor the burthen of government. Free under the yoke <;f poverty they live chiefly by hunting and filling, and on wild fruits. But little of their time or labour can be spent on Agriculture, where they have nothing but a stick to plough with, and hatchets made of one to cut down trees, which being burned or rotted, leave the oil in a proper state for bearing.,IT was not till the year 1535, that the Spaniards thought of paying another visit to the river Oronooko.,Having
Having been disappointed in their search after mines, they B 0 O K considered it of so little importance, that they never. , formed more than one small settlement upon it. This is situated at the lower part of the river, and is called St. Thomas. The first colonists applied themselves with so much ardour to the cultivation of tobacco, that they delivered annually ten cargoes to the Dutch. This in intercourse having been prohibited by the metropolis, the town, which hath also been twice asked by privateers, insensibly dwindled to nothing. The whole employ ment of the place, at present, is to breed a few cattle, which they send to Cumana, by an inland communication THESE vast and fertile regions would soon emerge from their present obscurity, if Spain knew how to avail herself of the give ambition of the Jesuits. It is well known that these men, admirable as a society, danger vous in political, and detestable in a religious view, had succeeded so far as to draw from the midst of their forests a great number of wild natives; to fettle them cn the banks of the Oronooko, and other rivers, mos of which are navigable, that fall into it; to instil into them some social principles, and some taste for one of the more necessary arts, particularly agriculture. These people already cultivate sugar, cotton, tobacco, and cocoa, for their own consumption: would it not be possible to induce them to increase the growth of these commodities, by offering them others in exchange ? The distance be tween a savage and a social state is immense; but from the infancy of society to a flourishing state of commerce, there are but a few steps to make. Time, which im proves the strength, shortens the distances. Spain would be enriched by her traffic with these new plantations,,whose
B 0 0 K whole produce might be carried to Trinidad, and thus that hand would be restored to its original destination. Settled BUT, betide the serving as a staple, its extent, the of the Fruitfulness of its soil, and the convenience of its road, niards at Trinidad, would make it an object in itself of considerable import. and at tance. Those, who have surveyed it with sufficient attend Margaret ta. tion and skill to discern through the impediments of,thick forests, with which it is covered, the real value of it, have seemed it capable of producing in abundance many species of commodities, and even such as bear high price. Yet, its produce hath been confined merely to cocoa; but this was in such perfection, that it was preferred even to that of Caracca; and the Spanifh merchants in order to secure it, strove to anticipate each other by paying for it in advance. This eagerness, which may sometimes give a spur to the industry of a people naturally active, is sure destruction to those, among whom the desire of ease has the force of a passion, and even almost of a necessity, if not of nature, at least, of habit. The proprietors having received more money than they could repay with that single commodity, in which their whole fortune consisted, sell, by degrees, into despair ; and from the dread of unusual toil, gave over all thoughts of labour. Since the year 1727, there hath been no more cocoa to be found on the island; which, from that time, hath had no correspondence with the metropolis. THE same negligence had before ruined Mararrctta. This island enjoyed a momentary life and prosperity from a species of wealth drawn from the bottom of the sea, which encompassed it. Columbus in 1498 discovered at the distance of four leagues the little ife of Cubagua, afterwards called pearl island. The quantities of this treasure, which nature yielded without any cypence,,at-
attracted the Spaniards to this place in ice. They brought B o o K with them some savages from the Bahama islands, who Axis. had been found not proper for working in the mines, but had-a faculty of continuing a long time under water. This talent of theirs was employed with so much ardour, that great fortunes were raised in a very small time. The, banks of pearl were exhausted, and theology transferred in 1524 to Margaret, where some of the same kind had jut .been discovered, and which disappeared in a fill shorter time From this period that island, which is fifteen leagues in length and fix in breadth, became more neglected by Spain than Trinidad. THAT the court of Madrid fill maintains posses ion of there two islands, is more for the fake of keeping nations of greater industry at a distance from the conti went, than with a view of deriving any advantage to it self from them. Here is -a mixt race, formed between Spaniards and Indian women, who joining the indolence of the savage to the vices of civilized nations, are slug yards, cheats, and zealots. They live on what fil they catch, and bananas, which nature, out of complaisance as it were to their slothfulness, produces there of a larger size, and better quality than in any other part of the Archipelago They have a breed of lean and tables cattle,wvith which they carry on a fraudulent traffic to the French colonies,, exchanging them for hamlets, black veils, linens, silk stockings, white hats, and iron ware. The number of their vessels does not exceed thirty sloops, without decks. THE tame cattle of these two islands have filled the woods with a breed that is become wild. The inhabitants shoot them, and cut'their flesh into ships of three inches in breadth and one in thickness, which they dry, after having melted the fat out of them, si that they will keep VoL. III. P three
'B o 0 K three or four months. This provision, which is called,Tafflu, is sold in the French settlements for twenty livres (e) a hundred weight. ALL the money which the government sends to these two hands, falls into the hairs of the commandant, *the officers civil and mil mary, and the monks. The re. painter of the people, who do not amount to more than sixteen hundred, live in a slate of the most deplorable p- very. In time of war they furrii about two hundred men, who for the fake of plunder offer themselves with out distinction to any of the colonies, that happen to be fitting out cruisers for sea. Spi-lii TIE inhabitants of Porto-rich are of a different turn, ictoement at Poor That island, which is situated in the center of the An Rico. titles, is forty leagues in length, and twenty in its greatefi,breadth. Though it was discovered and visited by Co humbug in 1493, the Spaniards neglected it till 1569, when thirty of gold brought their thither from St. Do lingo, under the command of Ponce de Leon, to make a conquest, which afterwards cost them dear. EvERY one knows, that the use of poisoned arms is of the highest antiquity. In croft countries it preceded the invention of feel. When darts, headed with stone, bones of fish or other animals, proved insufficient to re pet the attacks of wild beasts, iter had recourse to poi nous juices, which frown being originallydefigned merely for the chace, were afterwards employed in war against their own species. Ambition and revenge set no limits to their outrages, till ages had been spent in drowning whole nations in rivers of blood. When it was difcovered,that this effusion of blood produced no advantage, and that in proportion as the stream swelled in its course, it depopulated countries, and left nothing but deserts without animation and without culture; they then came to an agreementto,moderate (e) t17. 6d
moderate in some degree the thirst of wedding it. They B 0 o K established what are called the laws of war; that is to, fy, injustice in injustice, or the interest of kings in the massacre of the people. They do not now cut the throats of all their victims at once; but reserve some few of the herd to propagate the breed. These laws of war, or of nations, required the abolition of certain abuses in the art of killing. Where fire-arms are to be had, poisoned weapons are forbidden, and when cannons balls will do the business, chewed bullets are not allowed. 0 ! race unworthy both of heaven or earth, destructive, tyrannical being, man, or devil rather, wilt thou never cease to tor ment this globe, where thou existent but for a moment ? Will thy wars never end but with the annihilation of thy species ? Go then; if thou wouldst advance thy mischief, go and provide thyself with the poisons of the new world. OF all the regions, productive of venomous plants, none abounded so much in them as South-america, which owed this malignant fertility to a fil in general rank, as if it was purging itself from the slime of a deluge. Th; plants calledLianes, of which there werevaLt numbers in all damp and mariby places, furnished the poison, which was in universal request on the continent. The method of preparing it was by cutting them in pieces, then boiling them in water, till the liquor had acquired the confidences a syrup. After this they dipped their arrows in it, which were immediately impregnated with the poisonous quality. During several ages, the savages in general used there arms in their wars with each other. At length many of those nations, from the deficiency of their numbers, found the necessity of renouncing so de structure a weapon, and reserved it for tenths, whether large or finally, which they could not overtake or over-,P 2 come.
B n K come. Any animal, whose kin has been raised with one XII. of there poisoned arrows, dies a minute after, without,any sign of convulsion or pain. This is not occasioned by the coagulation of the blood, which was a long time the ecrncral opinion; recent experiments have proved, that this poison, mixt with blood newly drawn and warm, prevents it from coagulating, and even preserves it some time from putrefaction. It is probable, that the effect of these juices is upon the nervous fvltcm. Some travellers have imputed the origin of the venereal disease among the inhabitants of the new world, to the habit of eating game killed with these poisoned arms. At pre sent it is university known, that the flesh of such ani mass may be eaten for a continuance without any ill effet.,Ix the American islands, they draw their poison from trees more than from the Lines; and of all the venomous forts of trees, the most deadly is the manche neel. Its trunk, which is never more than two feet in circumference, is covered with a smooth tender bark. Its flowers are of a reddish cast. Its fruit is of the colour of a peach, and has a stone in the middle. The leaves of it are like those of the laurel, and contain a milky fluid. In the hear of the day it is dangerous to handle them, on account of the moisture which exudes from their pores; and still more dangerous to repose under them, from the prodigious quantity of duff that falls from the innumerable flowers borne by these trees. Incisions being made in the trunk of them, shells are placed under to re clive the ap; as soon as it is grown a little thick, they steep the points of their arrows in it, which acquire from thence the property of conveying sudden death, be the wound ever so flight. This poison, as appears by ex prince, preserves its venomous quality above a hundred,years.
years. Of all the spots where this tree is fund, Potto B O O K Rico is that in which it delighteth most, and where it is found in the greatest abundance. Thy were not the sirs conquerors of America all shipwrecked on this island ? It is the misfortune of both worlds that they became ac quaint with it so late, and that they did not there meet with the death which their avarice merited. THE manchester seems not to have been fatal but to the Americans. The inhabitants of the island where it grows, used it to repel the Caribbees, who made frequent descents on their coasts. The same arms they might have employed against the Europeans ; and, as the Spaniards were ignorant at that time, that silt, ap plied immediately, is an infallible cure, they would pro baby have fallen a sacrifice to the first effets of this poi son. But they did not meet with the least resistance on the part of the savage inhabitants of the island. They had been informed of what had occurred in the conquest of the neighbouring isles, and they regarded these strangers as a superior order of beings, to whole chains they voluntarily submitted themselves. It was nt long, how ever, before they wished to shake off the intolerable yoke which had been imposed on them, and postponed the en surprize only till they could be assured, whether their tyrants were immortal. A Cacique, named Bravo, was intrusted with this commission. CHANCE favoured his design, by bringing to him Sal zero, a young Spaniard, who was travelling. He received him with great respect, and at his departure Cent one In diana to attend him on his way, and to serve him in the quality of guides. When they came to the bank of a river, which they were to pass, one of these savages took him on his shoulder to carry him over. As soon as they had got into the midst of it, he threw him into the water, and,P 3 with
B o O K with the assistance of his companions, kept him 'there till ,. .there was no appearance of life. They then dragged him to the bank; but as they were still in doubt, whether he was dead or living, 'they begged pardon a thou sand times for the accident that had happened. This farce lasted three days; till at length being convinced by the stench of the corpse, that it was possible for Spa niards to die, the Indians rose on all sides upon their oppressors, and massacred a hundred of them. Ponce de Leon immediately assembled all the Castilians who had escaped, and without loss of time sell upon the savages, who were terrified with this sudden at. tack. In proportion as the number of their enemies in creased, their panic became more violent. They'd even the folly to believe, that these Spaniards which were just arrived from St. Domingo, were the same that had been killed, and were come to life again to fight them. Un der this ridiculous persuasion, dreading discontinue a ar with men who revive after their death, they submitted once more to the yoke, and being condemned to the mines, in a short time sell martyrs to the toils of fla very. SUCH as of barbarity by no means promoted the in. interests of Spain. An island of considerable extent, en riches by a great number of rivers, fruitful, though un equal furnished with an excellent port, and coasts of easy access: this island, the possession of which would have made the fortune of an active nation, is scarcely known in the world. The inhabitants amount barely to fifteen hundred, including Spaniards, Esteem, and Mulattos. They have about three thousand negroes, whofeemploy- ment is rather to gratify the indolence, than to assist the industry of the proprietors. Both masters and slaves, brought nearly upon a footing by their sloth, subsist alike,oil
on maize, potatoes, and cassava. If they cultivate sugar, C 0 0 K tobacco, and cocoa, it is only so much of each as is ne cellar for their own consumption. Their exports con sift of about two thousand skins, which thy furnish an annually to the mother country, and a considerable num ber of mules, good in their kind, but fall, such as are usually found in broken and mountainous countries. These mules are smuggled into Santa-Cruz, Jamaica, and St. Domingo. This colony is protected in its idle lines by a garrison of two hundred men; which, with the clergy and civil officers, cost government 250,000 li vres.(f) This money, added to what they get for their cattle, is sufficient to pay the English, Dutch, French, and Danes, for the linens and other merchandise they supply. All the advantage the metropolis derives from this settlement, is to take in water and fresh provisions there for the fleets he sends to to the new world. IF Spain hath so little consideration of her own in interests, as to neglect the advantage which she might draw from an island of such importance, at least he ought to permit such of her filhjeas, as chance hath conduced there, to emerge from that hateful poverty in which they languish. To render their condition more happy, no thing is wanted but liberty of free market for their cat tie. They could find pasture for as much as would supply the consumption of all the Caribbee plains, where the lands are occupied in tillage. The situation of a settlement in-the center of those islands, would be a very favourable circumstance for its trade with them. An open communication with give and enlightened people, would excite thofe.colonifts who are not so. The desire of partaking in the same enjoyments, would inspire the same ardour fr business. The court of Madrid wouldst 4 then (f) Nr v Yooo/.
B O O K then reap the political fruits of a condescension which humanity alone hould dilate to her. Till this liberty of commerce is granted, Porto-Rico will be of no more service to her than St. Domingo. Sp-T.l- THIS island, famous for being the earliest settlement f-ttemeno of the Spaniards in the new world, was at first in high miono. estimation for the quantity of gold it produced: this wealth diminished with the inhabitants of the country, whom they obliged to dig it out of the bowels of the earth; and the source of it was entirely dried up, when the neighbouring islands no longer supplied the loss of thole wretched victims to the avarice of the conqueror. A vehement desire of opening again this source of wealth, inspired the thought of getting slaves from Africa ; but besides that, these were found unfit for the labours they were destined to; the multitude of mines which then be gan to be wrought on the continent, made those of St. Doin.:go o longer of any importance. An idea now suggested itself, that their negroes, which were healthy, strong, and patient, might be usefully employed in hus bandy; and they adopted, through necessity, a wise re solution, which, had they known their own interest, they would have embraced by choice the produce of their industry was at first extremely fnr.!'l, because the labourers were few. Charles the fifth, who, like most sovereigns, preferred his favourites to every thing, had granted an exclusive right of the save trade to a Flemish nobleman, who made over his privilege to the Genoese. Those avaricious republicans conduct ed this infamous commerce as all monopolies are con duped; they resolved to sell dear, and they sold but few. V,'hen time and competition had fixed the natural and necessary price of lawes, the number of them increased It may eafciv be imagi;;rc, that the Spaniards, who ha(,beer
been accustomed to treat the Indians, as beasts, though E o0 K they differed but little in comp; iron from themselves, did nut entertain a higher opinion of these negro Africans, whom they substituted in their place. Degraded still further in their eyes by the price they had paid for them, even religion could not train them from aggravating the weight of their servitude. It became intolerable, and these wretched slaves made an effort to recover the un alienable rights of mankind. 1 heir attempt proved un successful; but they reaped this benefit from their def pair, that they were afterwards treated with left inhumanity This moderation (if tyranny cramped by the apprehension of revolt can deserve that name) was attended with good consequences. Cultivation was pursued with some degree of success. Soon after the middle of the sixteenth century the metropolis drew annually from this colony ten million weight of sugar, a large quantity of wood for dying, tobacco, cocoa, cassia, ginger, cotton, and peltry in abundance. One might imagine, that such favourable beginnings would give both the desire and the means of carrying them further; but a train of events more fatal each than the other, ruined these hopes. THE first misfortune arose from the depopulation of St. Domingo. The Spanish conquests on the continent should naturally have contributed to promote the success of an island, which nature seemed to have formed to be the center of that wait dominion arising around it, to be the staple of the different colonies. But it sell out quite otherwise : on a view of the immense fortunes raising in Mexico, and other parts, the chest inhabitants of St. Domingo began to despise their Settlements, and quitted the true source of riches, which is on the surface of the earth, to go and ransack the bowels of it for veins osgood,
B O 0 K gold, which are quickly exhausted. The government,endeavoured in vain to put a flop to this emigration; the laws were always either artfully eluded or openly via. lated.,THE weakness, which was a necessary consequence of such a conduct, leaving the coasts without defence, e- courage the enemies of pain to ravage them. Even the capital of this hand was taken and pillaged by that celebrated English sailor, Francis Drake. The cruisers of less consequence contented themselves with intercept. ing vessels in their passage through those latitudes, the best known at that time of any in the new world. To complete the mischief, the Castilians themselves com mended pirates. They attacked no ships but those of their own nation, which were more rich; worse pro vide, and worse defended then any others. The custom they had of fitting out ships clandestinely, in order to procure slaves, prevented them from being known; and the assistance they purchased from the hips of war com ironed to protect the trade, insured to them impunity THE foreign trade of the colony was its only resource, in this distress; ani that was illicit: but as it continued to be carried on, notwithstanding the vigilance of the Governorship, perhaps, by their connivance, the policy of an exasperated and short-sighted court exerted itself de polishing most of the sea-ports, and driving the miserable inhabitants into the inland country. This a& of violence threw them into a state of dejection, which the in curious and settlement of the French on the island after wards, carried to the utmost pitch. SPAIN, totally taken up with that vast empire, which the had formed on the continent, used no pains to dissipate this lethargy. She even refused to listen to the fol-solicitations
limitations of her Flemish subject, who earnest pressed B O that they might have permission to clear those fertile latus. Rather than run the risque of seeing them carry on a contraband trade on the coasts, fie chore to bury in oblivion a settlement, which had been of consequence, and was likely to become bo again. TWs colony, which had no longer any intercourse with the metropolis, but 'by a ingle ship, of no great burthen, received from thence every third year, con filled :n 1I77, of eighteen thousand, four'hundred and ten inhabitants, including Spanish, Majesties, negroes, or Mulattoes. The cmplcion and character of these people differed according to the different proportions of American, European and African blood they had re civet from that natural and transient union which re sores all races and conditions to the same le el ; for love is not more a repeater of persons than death. These demi-savages, plunged in the extreme of fifth, lived upon fruits and roots, dwelt in cottages without furniture and most of them without clothes. The'fewamong them, in whom indolence had not totally suppressed the sense of decency, and table for the conveniences of life, purchased clothes of their neighbours the French, in re turn for their cattle, and the money fcnttto'them for the maintenance of two hundred soldiers, the priests and the government. It does not appear hat 'he company, formed at Barcelona 1757, with exclusive privileges for the re-establishment of'St. Domingo, hath as yet made any considerable progress. They send out only two small vessels annually, which are freighted 'back with Fix thousand hides, and some other commodities of little ,value. ST. Domingo, the capital of the colony, anil the place there this traffic is carried on, is situated on tie side ossa plain
B 0 0 K a plain thirty leagues in length, and from eight to twelve xII. , in breadth. This large tract, which, properly cultivated, would furnish provisions to the amount of twenty millions,(g) is covered with forests and under-wood, with here and there some pasture land interspersed, which serves for a considerable number of cattle. This spot, which is level throughout almost its whole extent, be comes unequal in the neighbourhood of the town, which is built on the banks of the Romania. Some magnificent ruins are almost all the remains of the once flourishing state of this celebrated city. On the land-side, it has no fortification, but a simple wall, without either ditch, or outworks; but towards the river and the sea it is well provided. Such is the only settlement the Spaniards have kept up on the southern coast. ON the north there is one called Monte Christ. Happily this maritime and commercial place hath had no connection with Spain. It owes its trade to the vicinity of the French plantations. In time of peace, the pro duce of the plain of Marivaux, situated between fort Dauphin and bay Manchester, is all carried to this port, which is constantly filled with English smug glens. When there is a rupture between the courts of London and Versailles, without engaging that of Ma did, Monte Christ becomes a very considerable market; for all the northern part of the French colony send their commodities thither, where they never fail of meeting with sips ready to take them off; but the moment Spain finds herself called upon to take a part in the disputes between the two rival nations, this brisk trade ceases the Spaniards have no settlement in the western part of the island, which is entirely occupied by the French; and i: ;s not above nine or ten years since they thoughts-5,c -c
of fettling to the eastward, which they had long entirely B O O K neglect. XI THE prose of cultivation, which accidentally found its way into the council at Madrid, might be carried into execution in the plain of Vega-Real, which is situated in the inland part, and is fourscore leagues in length, by ten, in its greatest breadth. It would be difficult to find throughout the new world a spot more level, more fruit ful, or better watered. All the productions of America would succeed admirably there; but it would he impossible to remove them from thence, without making r-ads, which is an undertaking that would stagger nations more enterprising than the Spaniards. These difficulties nolld naturally have led them to fix their eyes on the plains of of St. Domingo, which are fruitful, though not in so great a degree as those of Vega-Real. Probably they were apprehensive, that the new colonists would adopt the manners of the old, ol they determined upon Sa mana. Samara is a peninsula, on the eastern part of tl.e island, five leagues broad and sixteen long; and is joined to the continent by a narrow flip of very marshy ground. It forms a bay of fourteen leagues in length, where the anchorage is in fourteen fathom, and so commodious that thelhips may lie close to the shore. This bay is full of little islands, which it is easy to keep clear of by fleering close to the western coast. Besides the possession of a fertile though not a level soil, this neck of land affords a fixation very advantageous for trade, and for bringing the hips that come from Europe close to the lore. THESE considerations induced the first adventurers from France, who ravaged St. Domingo, to fettle at Samara; where they maintained their ground a long time, though surrounded by their enemies. At length,,it
t 00 K it was found that they were too much exposed, and t,too great a distance from the rest of the French fettle ments on the island, which were every day improving. In consequence of this they were recalled. The Spa. niards rejoiced at their departure, but did not take pos. session of the spot they had quitted within these few years, however, they have sent thither one people from the Canaries; the fate was at the expence of the voyage, and of their maintenance for several years. These measures, prudent as they were, have not been attended with success. The new inhabitants have for the most part fallen aims to the climate to the clearing, and above all to the arbitrary im positions of the governors, whose military turn is ever fatal to colonies Of these strangers the few, that fur vive so many evils, languish under the expedition of approaching death. Such unsuccessful beginnings pro mise no very fortunate conclusions. St. Domingo is likely to continue, as far as concerns the Spaniards, in the same feeble fate they have left it till now. Nature and fortune will make them amends by Cuba. Spanih co The island of Cuba, which is separated from St. Do lonvfo°r domingo by a narrow channel, is of itself equal in value at Cuba. 0 Import a kingdom: it is two hundred and fifty leagues in take of length, and in breadth from fifteen to twenty and thirty though it was discovered by Columbus, in 1492, the Spaniards did not attempt to make themselves makers of it till 1511, when Diego de Velasquez came with four lips and landed on the eastern point. THIS district was under the government of a Cacique, called Hatuey. He was a native of St. Domingo, or Hispaniola, and had retired hither to avoid the slaver to which his countrymen were condemned. Those who could escape the tyranny of the Caftillians, had followed,him
him in his retreat, where he formed a little state and B 0 0 K,XII. ruled in peace. At a defiance he observed the Spanish fails, whose approach he dreaded. On the first news he received of their arrival, he called together the brave Indians both of his subjects and allies, to animate them to a defence of their liberty; alluring them, at the same time, that all their efforts would be ineffectual, if they did not first render the God of their enemies propitious to them: Behold him there, said he, pointing to a vessel filled with gold, behold that mighty divinity, It us ivorke his aid! Tits simple and credulous people easily believed, that gold, for the fake of which so much blood was shed, was the god of the Spaniards. They danced and fang before the rude and fashioned ore, and resigned themselves wholly to its protection. BUT Hatuey, more enlightened, and more suspicious than the other Caciques, assembled them again. si must not, said he to them, expect any happiness long as the god of the Spaniards remains among us. He is no les our enemy than they. They seek for him in every place, and where they find him, there they e/fablih themselves. Were he hidden in the cavities of the earth, they would discover him. Were we to swallow him, they would plunge their hands into our owes, and drag him out. There is no place but the bottom of the fa, tl.t can elude their efar-c. Win he is no longer among us, doubtless we hall be forgotten by then. As on as he had done speaking, every man brought out his gold, and threw it into the sea. Notwithstanding this, the Spaniards advanced. Their muskets and cannons, those tremendous deities, dispersed with their thunder the savages, who endeavoured to refil : but, as Hatuey might reassemble them, he was pursued through the woods, taken, and condemned to be burned.,When
B o o K When he was fastened to. the flakes and waited only forth kindling of the fires-an inhuman priest-advanced to propose the ceremony of baptism, and to speak to him of Paradise. Are there, aid the Cacique, any Spaniards in that happy place ? Yes, replied-the missionary, but there are none but good aon. The hfe/ of them, returned Hatuey, are good fr nothing. I will not go to a place, where Il i)oul he in danger of meeting one of ten. - Talk no more to m of your religion, but leave me to die thus was-he Cacique burned, the God of the Chris. ftians dishonoured, his cross imbrued with human blood; but Velasquez found no more enemies to oppose him. All the Caciques hastened to do homage to him; After the mines had been opened, and it was found, that they did not answer, the inhabitants of Cuba being become useless were exterminated for at that time to conquer was to destroy. One of the largest islands in the world did not colt the Spaniards a single man but what profit have they drawn from the conquest of Cuba ? THE settlement they have formed upon this island may be considered in three views, each of which merits a e- pious attention. The first is, on account of the produce of the country, which is considerable; the second, as being the staple of a great trade; and the third,' as being the key to the new world. THE principal growth of this vast island is naturally cotton. This shrub, at the time of the conquest, was very common there. The preservation of it required little expence or labour; and the general dryness of the soil adapted-it particularly to this purpose. The commo city, however, is now become To scarce, that sometimes several years pass without any-of it being sent to Eu rope.,AL-
ALTHOUGH the Spaniards have an insurmountable an B O O K timothy to imitation, yet they have of late adopted the I cultivation of Coffee at Cuba, having observed the rapid progress it made in the neighbouring islands. But in borrowing the commodity from foreign colonists, they have not borrowed their diligence in improving it. Their whole produce of coffee barely amounts to thirty or five and thirty thousand weight, one third of which is ex ported to Vera Cruz, and the rest to Madrid. One should naturally conclude, that the growth of this plant will increase, in proportion as the use of a liquor so fa miliary to people, in hot climates, shall become more common among the Spaniards ; but a nation, which was the first to introduce into Europe a taste for coffee, and the hal to adopt it both in Europe and America, will be flow in all its improvements, as it is in every kind of in mention. The propagation of coffee requires that of sugar; it may be worth while, therefore, to inquire how far the Spaniards are prepared by the one for the other. SUGAR, which is the richest and most valuable pro duifon of America, would of self be sufficient to give to Cuba that flourishing slate of prosperity, every source and channel of which nature seems to have opened for her. Although the surface of the island is in general unequal and mountainous, yet it has plains sufficiently extensive, and sufficiently watered, to supply the consumption of the greatest part of Europe in that article The incredible fruitfulness of its new lands, if properly managed, would enable it to surpass every other nation, however they may have got the tart of it; their labour of more than half a century, spent in bringing ther works to perfection, would end in this, that a rival, b taking up their method, would outstrip them, and in :s than twenty years engross the whole of their profit. Vo. TT. Q Est
B 0 O K But the Spanifl colony is Co jealous of their superiority that to this day they have but few plantations, where, with the finest canes, they make at a great expence, but a small quantity of sugar, and that of a coarser fort. This serves partly for the Mexican market, and partly for the metropolis; which, instead of making a gold mine, as it should do, of its sugar trade, buys to the value of moe than five millions at foreign markets. IT has probably been expected, that the tobacco im. ported from Cuba would make amends for this loss; for after furnishing Mexico and Peru, there was sufficient, with the little brought from Caracca and Buenos Ayres, to supply the demands of all Spain. The greatest part comes there in leaf. That which is cured in the country by Pedro Alonzo, has been, and is still held in the highest esteem. This Spaniard, the only oe perhaps who bas enriched himself by a truly useful industry, has gained in this trade between twelve and fifteen millions of livres (h). If the government had listened to this native citizen, the national wealth would have been augmented by 'the in creased growth of a plant, which caprice renders so v- liable. The decay of this trade is solely owing to the negligence of the court of Madrid, in not gratifying the general taste of Europe for tobacco from the Havannah. THE Spanish colonies have an universal trade in king, Cuba produces annually ten or twelve thousand. The number might be easily increased in a country abounding with wild cattle, where gentlemen possess on the coasts and in the inland parts, large trans of country, white for want of population can scarcely be applied to any other purpose than that of breeding cattle. IT would be saying too much to assert, that the hun dredth part of this island is cleared : there are only for,(I) From about 5J:oo0l, to 6o,0ool. sterling.
traces of cultivation at St. Jago, a port to the windward B 0 0 K of the colony, and at Malaga, a safe and spacious bay , at the mouth of the old canal. The true plantations are all confined to the beautiful plains of the Havannah, and even these are not what they ought to be. ALL there plantations together, may employ about five and twenty thousand male and female slaves, of every age. The number of whites, nestles, mulattos, and free ne goes, upon the whole island, amount to near thirty thou sand. The food of these different species of inhabitants, confess of excellent pork, detestable beef (both in great plenty and exceedingly cheap) and manioc. Even the troops have no other bread than the cassava The habit of seeing Europeans frequently at Cuba, has, probably, preserved the inhabitants from that languid ate of in action which prevails in all the other Spanifh colonies in the new world. It must be further observed, that the people are leis fixed, their dress more decent, and their manners better regulated than in the other islands. THg ate of the colony would be still more flourish ing, if its provisions had not been made the property of a company, whose exclusive privilege operates as a con fIant and invariable principle of discouragement. The less industrious a nation is inclined to be, the more care ful it ought to be to avoid every measure that may tend to obstruct he progress of the more give and laborious part of the people. IF any thing could supply the want of an open trade, ai atone for the grievances occasioned by this monopoly at Cuba, it would be the advantage this island has always enjoyed of being the rendezvous of almoftall the Spanish vessels that fail to the new world. This practice com mended almost with the colony itself. Ponce de Leon having made an attempt upon Florida in 1512, became. acquainted
B o O K acquainted with the new canal of Bahama. It was im .XI. mediately discovered, that this would be the best route the ships bound from Mexico to Europe could possibly take; and in consequence of this was formed the fettle ment at the Havannah, which is but two small days journey from the canal. This port was afterwards found very convenient for vessels dispatched from Cartagena and Porto-bello, which in a short time pursued the same course; always putting in there and waiting for each other, that they might set fail in greater fate for the me metropolis. The wall uns expended during their flay by sailors, whose cargoes consisted of the richest treasures of the universe, made the city abound in money. The num ber of its inhabitants, which in 1561, consisted only of three hundred families, and was nearly doubled at the be ginning of the seventeenth century, amounts at present to ten thousand fouls. OSE part of them is employed in the dock-yards, for merely erected by government for building ships of war. As to the masts, iron, and. cables, they are brought from Europe; the other materials are found in abundance up on the island. But that which is most valuable is the timber, which, growing under the influence of the hot test rays of the fun, acts with moderate care for a whole century; whereas European ships dry and split under the torrid zone. This wood begins to be scarce in the neigh boyhood of the Havannah; but it is common on all the coasts, and the transportation of it is neither dear nor difficult. Spain is the more interested to multiply its docks, as the seas, molt frequented by its shipping, alllie between the tropics. There is still another motive for making the yards at the Havannah the principal resource of its naval power, and that is, the pains which are now taking to render this key to all its colonies impregnable,The
The importance of its undertaking may perhaps make B 0 0 K the detail of it not disagreeable. XII. EVERY one knows, that the harbour of the Havannah is one of the safest in the universe; that the fleets of the whole world might ride at anchor there together; that the water is excellent and easily procured. The entrance is secured by rocks, which make it necessary to keep an exam course, indorser to avoid striking on them. It is become more difficult since the year 1762, when they sunk three men of war there. This precaution has proved detrimental only to the Spaniards, who have not yet been able to weigh up those large vessels; and there was the lets reason for it, as the enemy would not have attempted to force their way into the harbour, which was defended by the Moro and the fort on the point. The former of these fortresses is raised so high above the sea, that even a first rate man of war could not batter it. The other has not the same advantage but then it cannot be attacked but by a very narrow channel, where the warmest assailants could never withstand the numerous and formidable artillery of the Moro. THE Havannah, therefore, can only be attacked on leland side Fifteen or sixteen thousand men, which are the most that could be employed in this service, would not be sufficient to invest the works, which cover a vast extent. Their efforts must be directed either to the right or left of the port, against the town or the Moro. If the latter, they may easily land within a league of the fort, and will come within fight of it, without difficulty, by good roads, through woods which will cover and hecuba their march. THE first difficulty will be that of getting water, which in the neighbourhood of the camp they must choose is mortal. To fetch such as is drinkable, they must go in,Q 3 boats
B-o K boats to the distance of three leagus,;-and it will be new x. . cesare to send a considerable force oir this purpose to the,only river where it is to be had, or to leave a detachment there in entrenchments which being at a distance from the camp, without communication or support, will be in perpetual danger of being cut off. PiREloous to the attack of the Moro, they mute make themselves masters of the Cavagna, which has been lately built. It is a crown work, composed of a bastion, two curtains, and two demi-bastions in front. Its right and left lie upon the bank of the harbour. It has cafe mates, reservoirs of water, and powder magazines that are bomb proof; a good covered way, and a wide ditch cut in the rock. Te way which leads to it, is com posed of stones and pebbles, without any mixture of earth. The Cavagna is placed on an eminence which commands the Moro; but is itself exposed to attacks from a hill, which is of an equal height, and not more than three hundred paces distant from it. As it would be easy for an enemy to open their trenches under the cover of this hill, the Spaniards intend to level it; after which, the Cavagna may extend its view and its batteries to a great distance. If the garrison hould find themselves fojpreli as net to be able to maintain its poll, twould blow.up its works, which are all undermined, and retreat .into the Moro, the communication with which cannot possibly be cut off.,TaE famous frtrtfs of the Moro, hat towards the sea, on which side it is impregnable, two bastions; and en the land side two others, with a wide and deep ditch cut out of the rock. Since it was taken it has been en timely rebuilt, and its parapets made higher and. thicker. They have added a good covered way, and everything that Was wanting to secure the garrison and the floies.,It
It is not casier to open trenches before this place than the B 0 0 K Cavagna. Both of them are built with a soft sone, which will be less dangerous to the defenders than the common fort of freestone. INDEPENDENT of there advantages, the two fortresses have in their favour a climate extremely hazardous to be fingers, and an easy communication with the town for re ceiling all forts of provisions, without a possibility of being interrupted. Thus circumstanced, these two places may be considered as impregnable, at leat as very difficult to be taken, provided they are properly fRocked with provisions, and defended with courage and ability. The preservation of them is of so much greater importance, as their loss would necessarily occasion the surrender of the harbour and town, which are both of them com handed and may be battered from these eminences. AFTER having explained the difficulties of taking the Havannah by attacking the Moro, we must next speak of those which must be encountered on the side of the town. IT is situated near the bottom of the harbour. It was defended as well towards the harbour as to the country, by a dry wall, which was good for nothing, and twenty one bastions, which were not much better. It had dry ditch and of little depth. Before this ditch was a'kind of covered way almost in ruins. The place,'in this state, could not have refilled a sudden attempt, which had it been made in the night, and supported by several attacks, true or fife, would certainly have carried it. They pro pore at-present to make wide and deep ditches, and to add an exceeding good covered way. THESE necessary defences will be supported by the fort at the point; which is a square, built of stone, and though small, is provided with casemates. It has beene. 4 rebuilt,
B OO K rebuilt, having been very much damaged during thefiege,,T here is a good dry ditch round it, dug out of the rock. Independent of its principal destination-which is to co operate with the Moro in defending the port, and for which it is perfectly well calculated; it has several bat. series which open upon the country, and flank some Forts of the town wall. ITS fire crosses that of a fort of four nations, which has a ditch, covered way, powder magazine, casemates, and reservoirs of water. This new fortification, which is erected at three quarters of a mile from the place,.on an eminence called Aroftigny, will require a siege in form, if the town is to be attacked on that side, particularly as it is so construed as to have a view of the sea, to command a considerable that on the land side, and to disturb an enemy exceedingly in getting water, which they mull fetch from its neighbourhood. Is fitting the city onward, we come to the fort Dal teres, which has been raised since the siege. It is of Stone, has four bastions, a covered way, a half moon before the the gate, a wide ditch, a good rampart, reservoirs, cafe rats, and a powder magazine. It is barely three quarters of a mile distant from the town, and is stated on the other side of rives and an impracticable morass, which cover it .in tha: direction. The rising ground upon which it is built, is entirely occupied by it, and has been insulated by the-digging of a broad ditch, into which the ea has a passage from tnh bottom of the harbour. Besides its command ing the communication between the town and the interior part of the island, it defends the circuit of the place by crossing its fires with those of Aroftigny. They are go ing to conif.ui t a large redoubt in the interval of there tito fart,, which will be an additional protection to the tc;rn. The Daltcres lfo cro.'cs its fire with that of the,Moro,
Moro, which is very high, and situated at the extremes O 0 K point of the fort. SuCH a continuation of works, which will require a garrison of four thousand men, and may be finished in two or three years, coif Spain immense urns. The pur chafe of the mere materials colt her at firs ten millions ;(i) the employment of them annually amounts to fix or fe ven.(k) Four thousand blacks in the service of the govern ment, and a number of Mexicans, condemned to the pub hic works, are the instruments of this undertaking. They might have hastened the end of the toils of o many vic tims, if they would have permitted the troops to take a hare of the burthen, which they wished, as a means to rescue them from that dreadful indigence under which they languish. IF it were allowable to form an opinion upon a subject, which our profession does not give us a right to under tant,. we might venture to assert, that when all there works stall be finished, those who would undertake the siege of the Havannah, hould begin by the Cavagna and the Moro; because, thee forts once taken, the town mull of; courte surrender, or be destroyed by the artillery of the Moro. On the contrary, if they should determine forth town side, the besiegers would scarcely find them selves ina better condition, even after they had taken it. Indeed they would have it in their power to destroy the dock-yards, and the (hips that might happen to be in the harbour; but this would produce no permanent advantage. In order to establish themselves, they must Still be obliged to take the Cavagna and the Moro, which in all probability they would find impossible, after the lss they must have sustained in the attack of the town and its for treles.,BUT (i) Above 430,0001. sterling. (k) About 85soocl. upon. n a average.
B 00 K BrT whatever plan may be pursued in the siege of this », , place, the assailants will not only have to combat the nu-serous garrison indorsed within its works, there will be a corps likewise, which will take the field, and conti. annually interrupt their operations. This small army will be composed of two squadrons of European dragoons, well mounted, armed and disciplined, and a company of a hundred migrelets. To the may be added all the in habitants of the island, whites, mulattoes, and free ne goes, who are regimented to the number of ten thou sand men; but as the greatest part of them have no idea of discipline, they would only create confusion. This, however, will not be the case with a regiment of cavalry of four squadrons, and seven battalions of militia, which since the peace they have accustomed to perform their manoeuvres with astonishing regularity. These troops armed, cloathed, and accoutred at the expence of the government, and paid in time of war upon the footing of regulars, are trained and commanded by majors, serjeants, and corporals sent from Europe, and picked from the most distinguished regiments. The forming of this militia costs an immense sum. Whether their ser vice will be answerable to the expence is the question, which future events alone can determine. But whatever may be the military spirit of these troops, we may pro ounce beforehand, that this establishment, in a political view, is inexcusable ; and for the following reasons: THE project of making soldiers of all the colonists of Cuba, a mot unjust and destructive projet to all-colos nies, has been pursued with uncommon ardour. The violence they have been forced to use with the inhabitants to make them submit to exercises, which they were averse from, has produced othereffe&s than that of in creating their natural love of repose. They detest those,me-
mechanical and forced movements, which, not contra-BOO outing in any respect to their happiness, appear doubly u . insupportable; not ro mention, their seeming frightful or ridiculous to a people, who, probably, think they have no interest in defending a government, by which they are opprest. This unwillingness to exert themselves, ex tends even to the labour, which is necessary for cultivating their lands. They have entirely left off clearing, planting, and tilling for a nation, which regards them in no other light than as labourers. The establishment of the militia too put a stop to agriculture. Those pro cautions which were gradually improving, have diminished and will be totally lost, if Spain continues obstinately to pursue a pernicious system, which false prin cipher have induced her to adopt. The rage of keeping up an army ; that madness, which, under pretence of pre venting wars, encourages them; which, by introducing despotism into governments, paves the way for rebellion among the people; which, continually dragging the in habitant from his dwelling, and the husbandman from his field, extinguishes in them the love of their country, driving them from their home; which oversets nations and carries them over land and ea: that mercenary pro fefinh'of war, o different from the truly military spirit, former or later will be the ruin of Europe; but much fooier,f the colonies, and, perhaps, first of all, of those, which belong to Spain. TtEa'moft extensive and most fertile part of the American Archipelago is possessed by the Spaniard. These islands, in the hands of an incurious nation, would have proved a source of unbounded wealth. In their present slate, they are vast forests, exhibiting only a frightful solitude. Far from contributing to the strength and riches of the kingdom they belong to, they serve only,to
B 0 0 K to weaken and to exhaust it by the expences required to,, maintain them. If Spain had attended properly to theological improvements of other nations, he would have discovered that several of them owed their influence solely to the advantages they haie drawn from islands, in every respect inferior to those,. which have hitherto only served the ignominious purpose of swelling the lift of the numberless and useless possessions of the Spanish crown. She would have learned, that there is no other, rational foundation of colonies, especially of those which have no mines, but agriculture. The Sps- IT is not doing justice to the Spaniards to purpose, that iardbnot they are naturally incapable of labour. If we give the as is sup least attention to the excessive fatigues which those of bonnes them who are concerned in contraband trade, submit to bring their colo with the utmost patience, we shall find that their toils ses to rare infinitely more grievous, than any that attend the ma great per season. engagement of a plantation. If they neglect to enrich themselves by agriculture, it is the fault of their govern ment. If they were once freed from the tyranny of mo monopolies; if they were permitted to buy the implements of husbandry at a moderate rate; if the produce of their cultivation was not subject to such exorbitant duties; if they were not opprest, as on as it is found that they begin to be successful; if industry was not looked upon as a dangerous virtue; if interested individuals were not permitted to exercise an absolute and venal authority over them, they would throw off that habit of indo hence and inactivity, by which Spain is almost annihilated It is astonishing that a kingdom, which, under Charles the fifth, was as it were the head, which directed all the motions of Europe, should now be a feeble and lifeless part of it; and that a slate, which makes the,prin-
principal figure in the map of our continent, hould make B 0 K the most contemptible one in the history of it. . IF Spain would recover from her infatuation, let her support her colonists. The treasures of Mexico and Peru are at hand to give riches to the islands ; and the generous assistance will be amply paid. All the productions of the new world require a capital in advance: sugar in parti ocular demands a large fund, and the returns are proportionable to it. There is not a single inhabitant at Tri nidad, Margaret, Porto-Rico, or St. Domingo, ca able of the undertaking; and there are not above thirty at Ceuta. All thee unemployed, drooping colonists seem to join ill one common petition to the metropolis for means to flake off the lethargy in which they are plunged Alas ! might the disinterested historian, who neither seeks nor desires any thing but the general good of mankind, be permitted to furnish them with those senti ments and expressions, which the habit of sloth, the ri gour of government, and prejudices of every kind seem to have precluded them from the use of. Thus would he in their name address the court of Madrid, and the whole Spanifh nation. " REFLECT on what we ask from you, and see, if you ' will not reap a centuple advantage by the valuable " commodities we shall supply to your now expiring commerce. Your marine, increased by our labours, " will form the only bulwark that can preserve to you " those possessions, which are now ready to escape from " your hands. As we become more rich, our con " gumption will be the greater; and then the country, " which you inhabit, and which droops with you, tho' " nature herself invites it to fertility; those plains, which "present to your eyes only a desert space, and are "a disgrace to your laws and to your manners, will beacon
O 3 K" converted into fields of plenty Your native land will." flourish by industry and agriculture, which have now " forsaken you. The springs of life and activity, which " ye will have conveyed to us through the channel of " the sea, will flow back, and encompass your dwellings " with rivers of abundance. But if ye are insensible " to our complaints and misfortunes; if ye do not go " vern us for our fakes; if we are only the victims of "our loyalty; recall to your minds that ever celebrated " era, in which a nation of unfortunate and discontents ed subjects shook off the yoke of your dominion; " and by their toils, their success, and their opulence, " justified their revolt in the eyes of the whole world they have been free near two centuries, and shall we " still have to lament, that we are governed by you? " when Holland broke in pieces the rod of iron, which " crushed her: when fie rose from the depth of the " waters to rule over the sea, heaven, without doubt, " raised her up as a monument of freedom to. point out " to the nations of the world the path of happiness, " and to intimidate faithless kings who would exclude " them from it." IN effie this commonwealth, which hath for-a long time flood upon an equality with the greatest kings, rose to that height in part by the prosperity of her colonies. What means the hath pursued to attain this jed we are now to consider. TheDutch BEFORE the discovery of the western .coast of Africa, establish th:relcves the passage to India, by .the capes Good Hope, and at Curro- particularly before the discovery of America, the Euro ro, St Eu ft-ti2, SabaPean nations scarcely knew, or visited each other, except 2-j St. in making laborious incursions, the aim of which was T -: ,: -., 1Pd.nder, and the consequence, destruCtion. Excepting the. :,.il a la, . ;- c.f tyrants, who, b o. :.r:.: ,he weak,,found
found means to. support a luxury dearly purchased, all B °o K the inhabitants of the different fates were obliged to con tent themselves with the meagre subsistence furnished them by lands ill cultivated, and a trade, which extend ed only to the frontiers of each province. Those great events towards the end of the fifteenth century, which form one of the most brilliant epochs of the history of the world, did not produce o sudden a change of man news, as might naturally be supposed. Some of the Hanse-towns and one Italian republics, it is true, ventured as far as Cadiz, and Lisbon, which were become great marts, to purchase the rare and valuable productions of both the Indies; but the consumption was very shall through the inability of the several nations to pay for them. most of them were languishing in a state of absolute lethargy; they were totally ignorant of the ad vantages and resources of the countries that belonged to them. To rouze them from this fate of insensibility, there was wanting people, who springing from nothing hould inspire activity and intelligence into every mind, and diffuse plenty through every market; that should offer the produce of all countries at a lower price, and ex change the superfluities of every nation for those com modifies which they want; that should give a quick circulation to produce merchandise and money; and by fa imitating and increasing consumption, should encourage population, agriculture, and every branch of industry, For all these advantages Europe is indebted to the Dutch. The blind multitude may be excused in confining them selves to the enjoyment of their prosperity, without knowing the sources of it; but it is incumbent on the philosopher and the politician to transmit to posterity the,fame
B o 0 K same of the benefactors of mankind; and: to trace out,,if it be possible, the progress of their beneficence. WHEN the generous inhabitants of the United Pro vices freed themselves from the dominion of the sea and of tyranny, they perceived that they could not fix the foundation of their liberty in a soil, which did not afford the necessaries of life. They were convinced, that com mere, which to most nations is no more than an ac cession, a means only of increasing the quantity and va lue of the produce of their refpeivee countries, was to them the sole basis of their existence. Without territory and without productions, they determined to give a value to those of other nations; satisfied that their own would be the result of the general prosperity. The eventjufti- fled their policy. THEIR first step was to establish, among the nations of Europe, an exchange of the commodities of the north, with those of the south. In a short time the sea was co vexed with the ships of Holland. In her ports were col meted all the commercial effects of different countries, and from thence they were dispersed to their receive destinations. Here the value of every thing was regulated and with a moderation which precluded all competition The ambition of giving greater liability and ex tent to her enterprizes excited in the republic a spirit of conquest. Her empire extended itself over a part of the Indian continent, and over all the island, of consequence in the sea, that encompasses it. By her fortresses or her fleets, she kept in subjection the coasts of Africa; but her laws were no where acknowledged except in the countries belonging to America, where cultivation had sowed the feeds of real wealth. The immense chain of her connexions embraced the universe, of which, by,toil
toil and' industry, ihe'became the foul. In a word, fhieB O OE had attained the universal monarchy of commerce Suctr was the slate of the United Provinces in 166i, when the Portuguese, recovering themselves from that hhguor and invasion, which the tyranny of Spain had thrown them into, found means to repossess themselves of that part of Brasil which the Dutch had taken from them. From this sirs stroke, that republic would have lost all footing in the new world, had it not been for a few small islands; particularly that of Curaffou, which they took from the Castilians, who had been in possession of it ever since 1527. Talk rock, which is not above three leagues off the coast of Venezuela, is about ten leagues long and five broad. It has an excellent harbour, but the entrance is difficult. The baron's extremely large, and convenient in every respect ;' wad is defended by a fort skilfully con strutted and always kept in good repair. THE' French, in' 1673, having corrupted the com maaant, landed there to the number of fiveor fix hun died rien: but the treason having been discovered, and the traitor punished, they met with a very different re caption from what they expected, and remarked with xhe disgrace of having exposed only their own weakness, and'the iniquity of their measures. LEWIS the XIVth, whose pride was hurt by this im prudent check, went out d'Eftrees five years after with .eighteen hips of war, and twelve buccaneering vessels, to wipe off the fain, which in his eyes tarnished the glory f a reign filled with wonders. The admiral was not far rom the place of his destination, when by his rashness ind obstinacy, he ran his ships aground on Davis's island; id after collecting the shattered remains of his fleet, re Vo. III. R turned
B 0 0 K turned in very bad condition to Brest, without having at. X tempted any thing.,FaoM this period neither Curaffou, nor the little islands Aruba and Bonaire, which are dependent on it, have met with any disturbance. No nation has thought of seizing upon a barren spot, where they could find only a few cattle, one cassava, some vegetables proper to feed slaves, and not one article for commerce.,ST. Lusatia is of very little more consequence. This island, which is about five leagues in circumference, ii properly nothing but a steep mountain rising out of the sea in the form of a cone. It has no port, and is con fined to a bay, which does not italy belong to it. Some Frenchmen, who had been driven from St. Christopher's, took refuge there in 1629, and abandoned the place fonmc time after i because, besides the barrenness of the rock, there was no fresh water, but what they got from rain collected in cisterns. The exact time of their quitting it is not known but it is certain, that in 1639 the Dutch were in possession of it. They were afterwards driven out by the English, and these by Lewis the XIVth, who caused his right of conquest to be recognized in the ne negotiation of Breda, and would not listen to the representations of the republic, with which he was then in al hance, and which pressed strongly for the restitution this island, as having been in possession of it before the war. When the signing of the peace had put an endto these representations, the French monarch, whose pride more readily submitted to the dilates of generosity than of justice, thought it not confident with his dignity tc take advantage of the misfortunes of his friends. Hell his own accord restored to the Dutch their island, although he knew that it was a natural fortress, which right b,o
of service in defending that part of St, Christopher's B 0 0 K which belonged to him. ST. Lusatia produces one tobacco, and near fix hun died thousand weight of sugar. The number of inhabitants employed in agriculture, consist of one hundred and twenty white, and twelve hundred black people: the traders amount to about five hundred white persons, and to twelve or fifteen hundred whenever this place has the happiness of being neuter in time of war. NOTWITHSTANDING its weakness, it has spared rome of its number to people a neighbouring island, known by the name of Saba. This is a steep rock, en the summit of which is a little ground, very proper for gardening. Frequent rains, which do not lie any time on the soil, give growth to plants of an exquisite flavour and cab ages of an extraordinary size. Fifty European families, with about one hundred and fifty slaves here raise cotton, spin it, make stockings of it, and sell them to other co ionics as high as ten crowns a pair. Throughout America there is no blood o pure as that of Saba; the women there preserve a freshness of complexion, which is not to be found in any other of the Caribbees. Happy colony ! elevated on the top of a rock, between the sky and tea, it enjoys the benefit of both elements without dreading their storms. It breathes a pure air, lives upon vegetables, cultivates a simple commodity, from which it derives ease without the temptation of riches; is em played in a business les laborious than useful, and possesses in peace all the blessings of moderation, health, beauty, and liberty. This is the temple of peace, from whence the philosopher may contemplate at leisure the :errors and passions of men, who come, like the waves of he sea, to shrike and dash themselves on the rich coasts f America, the spoils and possession of which they are,R 2 perpetually
B o 0 K perpetually contending and wresting from each other,, hence may he hew at a distance the nations of Europe bearing thunder in the mill of the ocean, and burning with the flames of ambition and avarice under the heats of the tropics, devouring gold without ever being satis sied, wading through seas of blood to amass those metals, those pearls, those diamonds, which are used to adorn the oppressors of mankind; loading innumerable ships with those precious casks, which furnish luxury with pur ple, and from which flow pleasures, effeminacy, cruelty, and debauchery. The tranquil inhabitant of Saba views this mars of follies, and spins in peace the cotton, which constitutes all his finery and wealth under the same climate lies the island of St. Mar tin, which is about fifteen or sixteen leagues round, and contains a considerable number of hills, which are so many rocks covered with briars. The sandy soil of its plains and valleys, which is in itself barren, can only be rendered fruitful by lowers, which happen seldom, and are less beneficial in proportion as they are exhaled by the fun, or drain off from the places where they fall. With some care, these casual refreshments might be pre served in reservoirs, and distributed from thence so as to produce plenty. As to the refer, this island, which has no river, is furnished with springs and cisterns, which supply the inhabitants with very good water. The air is very wholesome, the coast abounds with fish, the fears seldom tempestuous, and there is safe anchorage all round the island the Dutch and French, who met there in 1688, lived in peace, but separate from each other, when the Spa niards, who were at war with both nations, chose to at tack them n their new settlement, beat them, made them prisoners, and took possession of the place themselves:,but
but the conqueror on grew weary of an establishment B O O K,XII. which brought no profit, and cot 400,000 livres (I) a . year. He therefore quitted it in 1648, after having de flowed every thing which he could not carry away with him. THESE devastations did not hinder the former possessors from returning to the island as soon as they knew that it was evacuated. They mutually agreed never to disturb each others peace, and have preserved inviolably this en jugement, which was equally for the advantage of both. The disputes between their respective nations in no respect altered there dispositions, and an uninterrupted peace reigned among them, till the year 1757, when the French were driven out by the commander of an English priva tear, named Cook, but they returned again as soon as hostilities ceased. OF about fifty thousand acres of land, which this island contains, thirty-five thousand belong to tie French. This great extent would employ ten thousand pursuing; and it is not improbable, that the progress of cultivation may oneday increase their numbers to that amount, if the rigour of our governments in Europe hould give birth to liberty in America. In 1753 there were not more than one hundred and two white inhabitants, and one hundred and eighty slaves. Their cattle consisted of thirty-leven horses, ninety-one bulls and cows, 3 5 sheep, and 458 goats. For their subsistence they cultivated 17,500 ba nana trees, eighty-four plots of yams or potatoes, and 82,000 trenches of cassava. The produce of 425,6co feet of cotton trees, was all they had to trade with. 'IHE line of separation, drawn from east to well, which confines the Dutch within a smaller compass, has place them ample amends, by giving them postilion of,R 3 the (/) About 7,5oo/. fleming.
B 0 0 K the only port in the island, and of a large fait pit, which xii brings them in annually two hundred thousand crowns.(m),They have besides these, their sugar works, which employ three thousand slaves: their labour, however, never turns to account but in wet seasons both colonies have of late taken up the cultivation of coffee with good success. This article may, perhaps, in time set them above their difficulties; a prospect, which at present is more distant to the French than to the Dutch. THE settlements of the latter, in the great Archipelago of America, do not thus far upon the first view present any thing curious or interesting. Their produce, which is scarcely sufficient to freight four or five moderate vessels seems not worth any degree of attention; and they would accordingly have been consigned to oblivion, if some of them, which are of no consequence in cultivation were not very considerable in commerce. This is to be understood of St. Lusatia and Curaffou.,THE desire of forming a contraband intercourse with the Spanish main, was the cause of the conquest of Cu. raffou. In a short time a great number of Dutch Ships arrived there: they were of force, and well equipt: their crews consisted of choice men, whose courage was fe corded by their interest. Each of them had a share in the cargo, which he was resolved to defend at the risque of his life against the attacks es the guarda-cofias.,AFTER a time, the method of carrying on this trade was changed. Curaffou itself became an immense ma gazing, to which the Spaniards resorted in their boats to exchange their gold, silver, vanilla, cocoa, cochineal, bark, fins, and mules for negroes, linen, silks, India susss, spices, laces, ribbands, quicksilver, ech and iron ware. These voyages, though they were continual did (;a) :6,25a.
did not prevent a multitude of Dutch sloops making trips B O O K from their island to the creeks on the continent. The wants, the supplies, the labours, and the voyages of the two nations were reciprocal, and made their coasts a most native scene of trade, though they were rivals in com mere, and equally covetous of gain. The modern sub situation of regifter-lhips, in the place of galleons, has made this communication less frequent; but it will be revived, and even increased, whenever by the intervention of war the immediate communication with the Spanish main shall be cut off. THE disputes between the courts of London and Ver filles, open a new sphere of action for Curaffou. At these times it furnishes provisions to all the southern coast of'St. Domingo, and takes off all its produce. This trade will increase in proportion to the progress that part of the French colony hall make, and of which it has considerable opportunities. Even the French privateers from the Windward islands, repair in great numbers to Curaffou in the times of hostilities, notwithstanding the distance. The reason is, that they find there all kinds of necessary flores for their vessels ; and frequently Spanish, but always European goods, which are universally used English privateers seldom cruize in these parts. EVERY commodity, without exception, that is landed at Curaffou, pays one per cent. port-duty. Dutch goods are never taxed higher: but those that are shipped from other European ports, pay nine per cent. more. Foreign coffee is subject to the same tax, in order to promote the sale of that of Surinam. Every other production of America, is subject only to a payment of three per cent. but with an express stipulation, that they are to be con vexed directly to some port of the republic.,R4 ST.
B O O K ST. Lusatia was formerly subjea to the same import XI.,fitions as Curaffou; but they were taken off at the be ginning of the late war. It derived this benefit from its neighbourhood to the Danish island of St. Thomas, which being a free port, engrossed a great part of its trade. Un der the present regulation, its contraband trade in time of peace is chiefly confined to the barter of English cod, for the molasses and rums of the French islands. A state of hostility between the courts of London and Versailles, opens a very large field to St. Lusatia; which is enriched by their divisions. In the lait war it became the staple of almost all the merchandise of the French co ionics, and the general magazine of supply for them. But this great operation was not conducted finely by the Dutch: both EngliSh and French united in the harbour of this island, to form, under shelter of its neutrality, commercial engagements. A Dutch passport, which cod 252 livres (n), and was granted without inquiring of what nation the person was who applied for it, kept their connections from public view. This great liberty gave rise to numberless transactions between persons very fin regularly situated, with regard to each other. Thus com mere found the art of pacifying or eluding the vigilance of discord but the Dutch, who are equally mailers of the art of converting either the good or bad fortune of others to their own profit, are not confined to the temporary ad vantages of a precarious trade in the new world. They are in possession of a large territory, which they cultivate, on the continent. It i, separated from the French Gui ana by the river Macaroni, and by that of Poumaran from Spanifh Guiana and known by the name of Suri-,nanm, () About ili. feeling.
nam, the most ancient and most important settlement in B O 0 K the colony. XII. THE foundation of it was laid in 1640, by the French, Dutch set whose aivity carried them at that time into a variety oftlement t climates, and whore fickleness suffered them not to fettle Berbice, in any. They abandoned Surinam a few years afterward E- they arrived there, and were succeeded by the English; whose diligence began to be attended with some success, when they were attacked in 1667 by the Dutch, who finding them dispersed over a vast tract of land, had little difficulty in subduing them. Some years after they were to the number of twelve hundred transported to Jamaica, and the colony was formally ceded to the republic. THEIR subject, whose role occupation was commerce, had not the least taste for agriculture. Surinam was for some time a monument of the prejudices of its new ma steps. At length, the company, which governed the country, cut down woods, divided part of the land among the inhabitants, and furnished them with slaves. All persons who were desirous of occupying there lands, obtained grants of them upon an engagement to pay by instalments out of their produce, the price at which each lot was valued: and they had the further privilege of disposing of them to any purchaser, who would agree to pay whatever part of the original debt remained due. THE success of there first settlements gave rise to a great number of others. By degrees they extended to twenty leagues distance from the mouth of the Surinam, and of the Commenwine, which runs into it; and would have advanced much further, if they had not been checked by the fugitive negroes, who taking refuge in inaccessible forests, where they have recovered their li betty, never cease to infest the back parts of the colony.,THE
B 0 K THE difficulties, which attended the clearing of there XII. « - lands, required that uncommon resolution, which is rea-,dy to attempt, and that perseverance which is capable of surmounting every thing. The greatest part of the lands which were to be made fit for cultivation, were covered with water every tide to the depth of four or five feet. By making great numbers of ditches and sluices, they succeeded in draining them; and thus the glory of set ting bounds to the ocean was acquired by the Dutch in the new world, as t had been before in the old. They contrived even to give to their plantations that neatness which is every where a characteristic of them, and such conveniences as are not to be found in the most flourishing either of the English or French settlements. ONE of the principal circumstances, to which they owe their success, has been the extreme ease with which the settlers procured money to carry on their works. They raised as much as they could make use of at the rate of fix per cent. but under an express condition, that their plantations should be mortgaged to their creditors, and that they should be obliged to deliver to them their whole produce at the price current in the colony, til! such time as the debt should be entirely paid off with the affiance of these loans, they formed upon the banks of the Surinam, or at a little distance from it, 425 plantations, upon which, in 1762, were 84,500 blacks, and too white men as overseers. Among the latter, are included French refugees, Moravians, and a very confiderabie number of Jews. There is, perhaps, no country upon earth, where this unhappy nation is so well treated. They not only permit them to enjoy the exercise of their religion, the propriety of lands, and the determination of disputes, which arise among themselves; they ser them likewise to participate of the common,rights
rights of citizens, to have a share in the general admini- B 0 0 C fixation of affairs, and to vote in the elections of public XTI magistrates. Such is the influence of the spirit of trade, that it forces all national and religious prejudices to sub mit to that general interest, which should be the bond of union among mankind. What are those idle nominal distinctions of Jews, Lutherans, French or Dutch ? Mi female inhabitants of a spot, which ye cultivate with so much toil and sorrow; are ye not all men? Why then do ye drive each other from a world, where ye live but for an instant ? and what a life too is it, that ye have the folly and cruelty to dispute with each other the en moment of? Is it not sufficient, that the elements, the heavens, and even the earth, fight against you, but ye must add to those scourges, with which nature has fur rounded you, the abuse of that little strength she has left you to resist them ? Paramaribo, the principal place of the colony of Su rinam, is a small town pleasantly situated. The houses are pretty and convenient, though they are only built of wood upon a foundation of European bricks. Its port, which is five leagues distant from the sea, has every re quite that can be desired. It is the rendezvous of all the ships dispatched from the metropolis to receive the produce of the colony. THE success of this establishment suggested in 1737, the idea of forming another upon the river Berbice, which falls into the sea nineteen leagues weft of the Su rinam. The shores at its mouth were so marshy, that they found it necessary to go fifteen leagues up the stream in order to form plantations on its banks. A na tion, that had made even the sea habitable, it can scarcely be supposed, would yield to such an obstacle. A new Company had the glory of raising new productions in soil
B O O K soil taken from the bed of the ea, and the oar gave place xII. to the plough-ihare.,THE same prodigy has since been attempted by another association, and with the same success on the De merry and Effequebe, which fall into the bay at twenty leagues stance from Berbice, and upon the Poumeran, at fifteen leagues from the Effequebe, and twenty-five from the principal mouth of the Oronooko. The two last colonies will probably some time or other equal that of Surinam; but at present they do not reckon that there are more than twelve hundred free persons there, at the head of twenty-eight, or thirty thousand slaves. Produce of THESE three settlements produce exactly the same ar the three titles; cotton, cocoa, and sugar. Though the last of merits. these is much the most considerable, the quantity doesn't answer either to the number of hands, or the pains they employ about it. This defect arises, no doubt, from the nature of the soil, which is too marshy, and by its superabundant humidity drowns or wastes away the vegetable salts and juices of the cane. The little profit they made of it induced the planters to turn their thoughts to some other object; and about the beginning of this century, they took up the cultivation of the coffee tree. THIS tree, originally the produce of Arabia, where nature, scantily supplying the necessaries of life, scatters its luxuries with a lavish hand, was long the favourite plant of that happy land. I he unsuccessful attempts made by the Europeans in the cultivation of it, induced them to believe that the inhabitants of that country steeped the fruit in boiling water, ordered it in the oven before they sold it, in order to secure to themselves a trade from which they derived all their wealth. They cntiilueJ in this error, till they had conveyed the tree,itself
itself to Batavia, and afterwards to Surinam: when they B 0 K,XII. were convinced by experience, that the feed of the coffee-tree, as well as of many other plants, will never come to any thing, unless it is put fresh into the ground. THE fruit of this plant resembles a cherry. It grows in clusters, and is ranged along the branches under the axilla of the leaves of the same green as those of the laurel, but something longer. They gather it, when it comes to be of a deep red, and carry it to the mill. THE mill is composed of two wooden rollers, furnished with two plates of iron, eighteen inches long, and ten or twelve in diameter : there are moveable, and are made to approach a third, which is fixt, and which they call the chops. Above the rollers is a hopper, in which they put the coffee, from whence it falls between the rollers and the chops, where it is script of its first skin, and divided into two parts, as may be fen by the form of it after it has undergone this operation, being flat on one side, and round on the other. From this ma chine it falls into a brass sieve, where the kin drops be tween the wires, while the fruit ides over them into baskets placed ready to receives: it is then thrown into a vessel full of water, where it soaks for one night, and is afterwards thoroughly washed. When the whole is finished, and well dried, it is put into another machine, which is called the peeling-mill. This is a wooden grinder, which is turned vertically upon its trundle by a mule or a horse. In passing over the dried coffee it takes off the parchment, which is nothing but a thin kin that detaches itself from the berry, in proportion as it grows cry. The parchment being removed, it is taken out of this mill to be winnow.ed in another, which is called the winnowing mill. I Ths machine is provided with four,pieces
B o O K pieces of tin fixed upon an axle, which is turned by a . slave with considerable force; and the wind, that inmate by the motion of there plates, clears the coffee of all the pericles, that re mixt with it. It is afterwards put upon a table, where the broken berries and any filth that may happen to remain, are separated by negroes. After these operations, the coffee is fit for sale. THE tree, which produces it, flourishes only in those climates, where the winters are extremely mild. The curious raise them only in hot-houses, where they water them frequently, and this merely for the pleasure of fee ing them the coffee tree delights particularly in hills and mountains where its root is almost always dry, and its head frequently watered with gentle lowers. It prefers a western aspect, and plowed ground without any appear. ance of grass. The plants should be placed at eight feet distance from each other, and in holes twelve or fifteen inches deep. If left to themselves they would rise to the height of twenty feet; but they are stinted to five for the fake of gathering their fruit with greater ease. Thus dwarf they extend their branches, so that they cover the whole spot round about them. THE coffee tree blossoms in the months of December, January, and February, according to the temperature of the air, or the season for rain, and bears in Otober or November. It begins to yield fruit the third year, but is not in full bearing till the fifth. With the same in infirmities, that most other trees are subject to, it is like wise in danger of being destroyed either by a worm, that pierces its root, or by the darting rays of the fun, which are as fatal to it as to the human species. The length of its life depends upon the quality of the soil it is planted in. The hills where it is chiefly found haven gray
gravelly or chalky bottom. In one of these it land o guises for some time and then dies; in the other, its roots, which seldom fail of frisking between the sones, obtain nourishment, invigorate the trunk, and keep the tree alive and fruitful for thirty years. THIS is nearly the period for plants of the coffee tree. The proprietor at the end of this term not only finds himself without trees, but has his land o reduced, that it is not fit for any kind of culture. One may fairly say, he has sunk his capital for an income of a very (short continuance. If his situation happens to be in an inland, entirely inclosed and occupied, his lost is not to be repaired. But upon an open and widely extensive continent, he may make himself amends for a spot to tally exhausted by a tract of unappropriated and un broken virgin land, which it is at his own option to clear. This advantage has contributed amazingly to multiply the coffee plantations in that part of Guiana that belongs to the Dutch. THE single colony of Surinam furnished in 1768 one hundred thousand weight of cotton, two hundred thou sand of cocoa, fourteen millions of coffee, and twenty eight millions fix hundred thousand of raw sugar. Seventy hips were freighted with these commodities to bring them to the metropolis, It is not possible for us to determine with the same precision the produce of the other colonies; but we hall not be very wide of the truth in setting it at one fourth part. It may and will increase considerably. Every species of cultivation, they have yet undertaken, will be extended and improved. They will, perhaps, attempt new ones; at least, they will resume that of indigo, which a few unsuccessful experiments induced them to abandon without fuicicnr reasoner
B O OK IT is true, that the coal, which is seventy-fix leagues,in extent, does not atord a single spot for plantation. The land throughout is low and always under water. But the great rivers, upon which they have begun to fettle, and the least of which is navigable for more than thirty leagues, give a firing invitation to enterprising men to come and enrich themselves on their banks. The country that lies between there, is fruitful and watered by smaller rivers, which are, however,, large enough to carry oops. The only obstacle to great success is the climate. The year is divided between continual rains and excessive heats. Their crops, which cost them vast pains to raise, are not to be preserved without the utmost difficulty from farms of diffusing reptiles: and they themselves are-exposed successively to the languors of the drcpfv, and to fevers of every kinds-Is is undoubtedly the reason, which has induced the principal proprietors of Dutch Guiana to reside in Europe. There are scarcely to be-found in the colony any inhabitants, but the factors of these wealthy men, and such proprietors, whose fortunes are too moderate to admit of their intruding the care of their plantations to other hands. For this reason their consumption can not be large; accordingly the vessels, which are went from the metropolis to bring home their produce, carry cut nothing but absolute necessaries, at least, if there are ever any articles of luxury, it is but felon. Even this scanty supply the Dutch traders are forced to Share with the Englfla of North-america. THOSE foreigners were at first admitted only because the colony was under a necessity of purchasing horses of them. The difficulty of breeding, and, perhaps, other causes, have established this permission. The bringing livres is so indian bt; a purport so: the men, that ani?
ship which does not carry a number proportioned to its B 0 K size is not admitted into their harbours. But if the v horses happen to die in the passage, it is sufficient that their heads are produced, which entities the owners to expose to sale other saleable commodities, with which they may have flocked themselves in lieu of their horses. There is a law forbidding payments to be made otherwise than by barter of molasses and rum ; but this law is little attended to. The English, who have usurped the right of exporting thither whatever they please, take care to export the mos valuable. commodities of the colony, and even exact payments in money or bills of exchange on Europe. Such is the law of force, which republics ap ply not only to other nations, but to each other. The English treat the Dutch pretty much in the same man ner as the Athenians did the people of Melos. It has ever bean the cras, said they to the inhabitants of that island, that the weasel suits to tie Jlrongfl: this lw is not of our making ; it is as ois as t 's wrl /, and will subsist as Clog as the world ensures. This argument which is so well calculated to suit the purposes of injustice, brought Athens in its turn under the dominion of Sparta, and at length destroyed it by the hands of the Romans. VARIOUS are the opinions with respect to the dangers Daneerl,,to which which Dutch Guiana may be exposed to. It shall be the Dutch our business to obtain some fixed idea on this important colonies,are epor- point. In the first instance, an invasion by any of the ,d European powers, would be easily effected. Their targets (hips could enter the river Poumaran, the mouth of which has seven or eight fathom depth of water, which hoes continually increasing to forty fathom, at the di lance of four or five leagues. The little fort of New Zeland, which proteus the ban'-.<-.-!J not find their VtL. Il. S 
o o K artillery for two hours. The entrance of the Demeraryj,which has from eighteen to twenty and twenty-four fa thon of water, and has not less than fifteen or sixteen through the pace of four leagues, and is totally defence. less, would be still more easy. The outlet of the Effequebe, which is three leagues in breadth, is filled with small islands and shallows; but here, as well e:. a along the course of the river, are found channels deep enough to bring the largest hips up to an island ten leagues distant from the sea, and defended only by a mi female redoubt. And though the river Berbice, which is one league broad, can scarcely admit the smallest vef. fess, they would carry sufficient force to reduce fort Nassau, and the scattered settlements on both its banks. All the western part of Dutch Guiana is scarcely in a condition to resist the attack of an enterprising cruiser: but would infallibly be obliged to capitulate on the fight of the most contemptible squadron. THE eastern part, which, by its wealth, is exposed to greater danger, is better defended. The entrance of the Surinam river is not very practicable, on account of its sand-bags. Ships, however, that do not draw more than tv.-er.'t feet water, can come in at flood. At to leagues from its outlet, the Ccnmmenwine joins the Su rinam. 'This point of union the Dutch have principally fortified. They have erected a batter', on the Surinam, another on the right bank of the Commenwine, and on the left bank a citadel called Amsterdam. There works f, r:n a triangle, and their fires, which cross each other, are contrived to have the double tz-cs of preventing si.: fr om Proceeding further up one river, and from en terris: into the other. The fortress is situated in the m isle or a ills niorafy, and is inaccessible except by a narrows causeway entirely commanded by the artillerymen
It requires no more than eight or nine hundred men to B 0 o K garrison it completely. It is flanked with four bastions, ' and furrounded'with a mud rampart, a wide ditch full water, and a good covered way : for the rest, it is unprovided with powder magazines, has no vaults, nor any kind of casemate. Three leagues higher up on the Surinam is a close battery intended to cover the harbour and town of Parambiro. It is called fort Zeland. A battery of the same kind, which they call Sommeswelt fort, covers the Commenwine at nearly the same distance. The forces of the colony consist of its militia and twelve hun died regulars, one half of whose pay is supplied by the inhabitants, and the other by the company. THIS number of men would be more than sufficient if they had nothing to guard against but the efforts of the natives. The few savages, who endeavoured to keep possession of places, that suited the Dutch, have been exterminated. The reft kept retreating further into the inland parts, in proportion as they found the Europeans encroaching upon them; and live quietly in those woods, which, by serving them as an asylum, are become as dear to them as the country from which they have been riven. BUT the colony has not the same degree of security with refpea to the negroes. When these miserable creatures who are brought from Africa, are exposed to ale, :hey are placed one after another upon a table, and examined with the most minute attention of a surgeon em Cloyed by the government. According to his report, he prices of them are fettled, and the money is usually )aid at the end of three weeks. The purchaser, how ver, has four and twenty hours allowed him to judge rom his own observation, of the goodness of his bar ,ain. If within that time he is dissatisfied with the choicest he
B 0 0 K he has made, he has a right to return what he has taken,,X. without any ceremony or indemnification ; provided he hasn't set his feal upon them. This feal is a fiver plate en which are engraved the initials of his christian and surname: after heating it, they apply it to the arm or breast of the stave, and the marks thus burned i can never be effaced. The uCe of this barbarous practice is to enable them to distinguish those whose features re not sufficiently characterised for European eyes. NOTHING is more uncommon in the Dutch fettle ments than to see a slave made free. He cannot obtain his liberty but by becoming a christian; and before they are authorised to administer baptism to him, they nul purchase letters of freedom, which cost four hundred livres.(o) Security must also be given for his mainte dance during life, left he should become a burthen tother company, or should he induced to increafethenumberofth; enemies of the colony, which is already too great. When we add to all these expences the loss of the original pur chafe money, we may safely venture to conclude, that the enfranchisement of a slave cannot be common amboina people with whm avarice is the ruling, if not the only, p.LTon.,THE planters here are so far from giving way to the, acts of humanity, that they have carried oppression infinitely greater lengths, than it has been extended, in the hands. The opportunities of desertion on a con tient of immense extent is, probably, the cause of ths extraordinary barbarity towards the blacks. Upon th slighter suspicion a slave is put to death b his mater i the presence of all his companions; but this is done wit' out the knowledge of the white people, who might cii en hence against them for so Fragrant a breach of the righ,(o) Bremen 171. and 181. (riling.
of society. The blacks not being admitted to give testis B O o K,· XII mony, are of no fort of consequence. The metropolis wink at this cruelty, and y its shameful connivance, risques the loss of an useful settlement. They have frequently had the strongest reason to be apprehensive of a revolution; but the danger was never Ib great nor so imminent as in 1763. IN the month of February, 1763, an nfurrcAi:n broke out, which by its example and consciences might hare produced the most fatal fleas throughout the American settlements. Seventy-three blacks assembled in one ho-se at Berbice, suddenly murdered their master, and [it about the cry of liberty. At this found, courage and hope revived and animated the whole body of fl;vcs. They joined to the number of nine thousand, and in the first transports of their rage sell upon all the white people in their way; these, with the chief of the colony, were obliged to take refuge on board a brigantine at the lower port of the river. In the mean time skie hundred men arrived from Surinam to their assistance. They made an attempt to land, and intrenched themselves in an advantageous posh, till the arrival of bone troops som Europe. Happily for the republic, the English at Barbadoes, who are in possession of most of the plantations formed on the Poumaran, Demerara, and ffcquebe, sent in time a sufficient force to keep the slaves on these three rivers in order ; and by a still more fortunate occurrence, the people at Surinam at this very tine concluded a treaty they had on foot with the negroes, who had taken refuge in the neighbouring woods. Ignorant, as they probably were, of a commotion, which might have been so favourable to them, they consented not to receive among their any fugitives of their own nation. This stipulated 3 tion
B O0 K tion deprived the rebels of their principal resource; ands. by such a combination of unexpected events, they were reduced again to a tate of servitude. The greatest part of them being without arms, they eagerly embraced the offer of a capitulation with their matters. They have, however, given proofs of that inextinguishable principle prevailing in their fouls, which never fails to resist op pression. The tranquility of Dutch Guiana, like that of all other countries, where rebellions have once broke out, is more apparent than real. The feeds of treason are ripening in secret within the forests of Aula and Sa mac. Is these deserts, which are peopled with all the slaves who have fled from the yoke of the covetous Hollander, a species of republic has grown up, composed of fifteen or sixteen thousand inhabitants, divided into several vil sages, each of which chooses a chief for itself. These wandering clans fall unexpectedly sometimes upon one side of the colony, sometimes upon another, in order to carry off supplies for their own subsidence, and to lay waste the wealth of their former tyrants. It is in vain that the troops are kept continually upon the watch to check or to surprize so dangerous an enemy. By means of private information, they contrive to escape every snare, and direct their march to those parts which happen to be left defenceless. Conventions and treaties are no security r.e;-r.;-. again their attacks. uy-,h IT depends, however, upon the wifdorn and moderns Dutch curl; to tion of there very republicans, who have tendered the lo-i cjuro' te of servitude so oppressive to the negroes, to prevent a ge of thr:r neral revolution, of which they would be the first victims. c*Ooni:' They have already been guilty of great oversights. They and to en ccu;ngc t, have not given to their American settlements, that at. produce ut mention theydeferved, although they have met with firck:,n.
so revere, and so closely following upon each other, as B 0 0 K ought to have opened their eyes. If they had not been blinded by the rapidity of their success, they would have discovered the beginning of their ruin in the loss of Bra zil. Stript of that vast acquisition, which in their hands might have become the first colony of the universe, and might have atoned for the weakness or insufficiency of their territory in Europe, they saw themselves reduced to the condition they were in before they had made this con quest, of being favors for other nations and thus was created, in their mass of real wealth, a void which hath never since been filled up. THE consequences of the aH of navigation, passed in England, were not less fatal to the Dutch. From this time, that island ceasing to be a tributary to the trade of the republic, became her rival, and in a short time ac quire a decisive superiority over her in Africa, Asia, and America. HAD other nations adopted the policy of Britain, Holland muff have sunk under the stroke. Happily for her, their kings knew not, or cared not, for the prosperity of their people. Every government, however, in proportion as it has become more enlightened, has assumed to itself its own branches of commerce. Each step that has been taken for this purpose, has been an additional check upon the Dutch; and we may presume from the present late of things, that sooner or later every people will establish a navigation for themselves, suited to the nature of their country, and to the extent of their abilities. To this period the course of events in all nations seems to tend, and whensoever it shall arrive, the Dutch, who are indebted for their success as much to the indolence and ignorance of their neighbours, as to their owns + ceconomy
B oO K ceconomy and experience, will find themselves reduced,to their original fate of poverty. IT is ;tot certainly in the power of human prudence to prevent this revolution ; but there was no necessity to anticipate it, as the republic has done, by choosing ta interfere as a principal, in the troubles which so frequently hae agitated Europe. The interested policy of our times wo::ld have afforded a sufficient excuse for the wars she has commenced or turned for the fake of her trade. Est upon what principle can the justify those in which her exorbitant ambition, or ill-founded apprehensions, have en-get her She has been obliged to support her self by immense loans: if we sum up together all the debts separately contracted by the states-general, the pro vices, and the towns, which are all equally public debts, we hall find they amouii; to two thousand millions (p) the interest of which, though reduced to two and a half per cent. has amazingly inlcrtafcd the load of taxes.,I shah leave it to others to examine whether these taxes have been laid on with judgment, and college with due economy. It is sufficient here to remark, that they have had the efifcc of increasing so considerably the prices of Necessaries, and consequently that of labour, that the in curious part of the nation have suffered severely from them. The manufactures cf wool, silk, gold, silver, and a variety of others, have sunk after having struggled for a long time under the rowing weight of taxes and scar civ. Vvxhen the spring equinox brings on at the same time his tides and the melting of the snow, a country is laid under water by the ove: flowing of the rivers. No cooler does the increase of taxes raise the price of provi» sons, than th; vwor:2a:1, who pays more for his daily collum potion, v:.hout rec-sting any addition to his wsage,,forfikt () Bc'.\-.n ,; ?.r.i! 10 "i:;ons sti:.:n.
forsakes the manufacture and workshop Holland has B O O K,XII not preserved any of its internal resources of trade, but ' such as were not exposed to any foreign competition. THE husbandry of the republic, if we may be allowed to call it by that name, that is to ay, the herring fishery, has scarcely suffered less. This fishery, which for a long time was entitled the gold mine of the state, on account of the number of persons who derived their sub silence, and even grew arch by it, is not only reduced to one-half, but the profits of it, as well as those of the whale fishery, are dwindled by degrees to nothing. Nr is it by advances of cash, that those who support these two fisheries, embark in the undertaking. The partner ships consist of merchants, who filrnifli the bottoms, the rigging, the utensils, and the stores. Their profit con sifts almost entirely in the vent of these several merchandises they are paid for them out of the produce of the fishery, which seldom yields more than is sufficient to de fray its expences. The impossibility there is in Holland of employing their numerous capitals to better advantage, has been the only cause of preserving the remains of this ancient source of the public prosperity. THE excessive taxes, which have ruined the manu pictures of the republic, and reduced the profits of their fisheries so low, has greatly confined their navigation. The Dutch have the materials for building at the first: hand. They seldom cross the ea without a cargo. They live with the strictest sobriety. The lightness of their ships in working, is a great laving in the numbers of their crews ; and these crews are easily formed, and always kept in the greatest perfection, and at a small expence, from the multitude of sailors swarming in a country which consists of nothing life but ea and lore. Notwithstanding all these advantages, which are further increased by the low,rate
B o0 K rate of money, they have been forced to share the carries. ing trade of Europe with Sweden, Denmark, and especially the Hamburghers, with whom the necessary re hussites for navigation are not encumbered with the same impositions. WITH the freights have diminished the commissions which used to be sent to the United Provinces. When Holland was become a great fable, merchandise was sent thither from all parts, as to the market, where the sale of them was most ready, ure, and advantageous. Foreign merchants were the more ready oftentimes to send them thither, as they obtained at an easy rate credit to the mount of two-thirds, or even three-fourths, of the va lue of their goods. This management insured to the Dutch the double advantage, of employing their capitals without risque, and gaining commission betides. The gains of commerce were at that time so considerable, that they could easily bear these charges: they are now so greatly lessened, since experience has multiplied the number of adventurers, that the feller is obliged to con dut his commodity himself to the consumer, without the intervention of any agent. But if upon certain occasions an agent muff be employed, they will prefer, cater tribus ; Hamburgh, where commodities pay a duty only if one per cent. for import and export, to Holland, where they pay five.,'HE republic hath lost likewise the trade of insurance, which she had in a manner monopolized formerly. It was in her ports that all the nations of Europe uedto insure their freights, to the great profit of the insurers-who by dividing and multiplying their risques, seldom failed of enriching themselves. In proportion as the spirit of inquiry introduced itself into all our ideas, where of philosophy or economy, the utility of these speculations
nations became universally known. The practice became B 0 O K familiar and general ; and what other nations gained by XI. it, was of course lost to Holland. FROM there observations it is evident, that all the branches of commerce the republic was in possession of, have been very greatly diminished. Perhaps the greater part of them would have been annihilated, if the extent of her credit, and her extraordinary ceconomy, had not enabled her to be satisfied with a profit of no more than three per cent. which we look upon to be the value of the product upon all her trade. The deficiency has been made up to them by vesting their money in the English, French, Austrian, Saxon, Danish, and even Russian funds, the amount of which upon the whole, is about sixteen hundred millions of livres (q). FORMERLY the state made this branch of commerce unlawful, which is now become the most considerable of any. Had the law been observed, the sums they have lent to foreigners would have lain unemployed at home; their capitals for the use of trade being already so large, that the least addition to them, so far from giving an ad vantage, would become detrimental, by making the amount too great for use. he superfluity of money would immediately have brought the United Provinces to that period, in which excess of wealth begets poverty. Millions of opulent persons, in the midst of their plea sures, would not have had wherewithal to support them selves. THE contrary practice has been the principal resource of the republic. The money she has lent to neighbour ing nations, has procured her an annual balance in her favour, by the revenue accruing from it. The credit is always the same, and produces always the same interesting (q) About o millions sterling.
B O K WE shall not presume to determine how long the Dutch XII.,will continue to enjoy so comfortable a situation. Ex prince authorises us only to declare, that all govern ments, which have unfortunately for the people adopted the detestable system of borrowing, will sooner or later be forced to give it up ; and the abuse they have made of it will most probably oblige them to defraud their creditors Whenever the republic shall be reduced to this hate, her great resource will be in agriculture. THIS, though it is capable of improvement in the country of Breda, Bois-le-duc, Zutphen, and Gueldres, can never become very considerable. The territory be longing to the United Provinces is so small, that it will almost justify the opinion of a sultan, who, seeing with what obstinacy the Dutch and Spaniards disputed with each other the possession of it, declared, if it belonged to him, he would order his pioneers to throw it into the lea. The soil is good for nothing but fish, which, be fore the Dutch, were the only inhabitants of it. It has been said with as much truth as energy, that the four elements were but in embryo there. The produce of the lands will never be sufficient to maintain one fourth part of the two millions, that inhabit it at this time. It cannot, therefore, be by her European pollutions, that the republic can expect to be preserved. She may depend with more reason upon those in America. THE countries she holds in that part of the world are ill of them under the influence of monopolies. Her infants as well as her factories in America, depend upon the Weft-India company, the credit of which, since the loss of Brazil, has sunk so prodigiously, that their flock fells at near sixty per cent. under par. SURlIN'A.-, which was taken by some private flips ttted cu: in Zeland, ws ceded by the fl;:tzs of that pro-,\yi:C^
Vince to the same Company, who having hill their imago 0 K nation filled with the idea of their ancient grandeur, un II undertook without hesitation, the management of that ter ritory. Upon serious reflection they found that the ex pence which was necessary to put it in a state to yield them any advantage, was far too great for their exhausted si dances. They gave up a third of their property to the city of Amsterdam, and another third to an opulent individual of the name of Daarfsens. The two other colonies on the continent are likewise under the controul of trading companies, to which they owe their foundation. NoT one of these societies is in possession of a single ship, nor carries on any fort of trade. The navigation to the American settlements is equally open to every member of the community, under this whimsical and oppressive condition, however, that every ship bound for Surinam and Berbice, shall fail from Amsterdam; and those for Effequebe from Zeland, and that they (hall return to the same ports from which they failed. The business of the companies is confined to the government and the defence of the territories submitted to their jurisdiction and to enable them to support these expences, the republic authorises them to impose taxes of different kinds. ALL commodities imported into the colonies, or ex ported from them, pay large duties. Slaves, on their arrival, are subjea to much larger. There is a poll-tax upon blacks and whites from the age of three years. None but foreigners are exempted from this shameful tribute; and this exemption is not taken off but b a residence of more tin ten years. When an fate i; transferred, bth the !elder and the purchaser arc fubjcA tn a considerable fine. Every manufatllrcr, be his in dusty cic so grit , i: ob!:icd to gie in an account of,hi.
B 0 0 K his gains upon oath, and the impost is regulated agreeable XII.,to the amount of his profits. After the public expences are defrayed, the remainder of the revenue, which the weakness or corruption of the sovereign power has suffered become too exorbitant, is divided among the members of the different companies every wise government has discovered the ill effect of leaving their American possessions in the hands of par. titular societies, whose private interests do not always coincide with that of the public. They have considered their fubjeas in the new world as having an equal right with those of the old to be governed not by partial but by general laws. They have been of opinion, that their colonies would make a more rapid progress under the immediate protection of the state, than under that of a middle-agent. Tie event has demonstrated more or less in all cases the justness of these reflections. Holland is the only power which has not adopted so simple and ra national a plan ; though every circumstance concurred to make it more necessary to her than to other states. HER settlements are without any defence against ene mies, which either ambition or revenge may raise up against her; and are in continual danger of insurrections from the cruelty with which the slaves are treated. Their productions, all of which ought to be carried home to the metropolis, are every day smuggled into foreign co ionics in North-america. The disinclination, which a people merely commercial naturally have to the improve mentor land is strengthened in the colonies by the abuses inseparable from the form of government established there. The means of creating a new order of things in them are not within the reach of the authority, protection, or activity of a pri ate society. Revolutions of such mag-,ritude
nitude cannot be brought about but by the immediate fu B 0 0 K,XlI. superintendence of the slate. IF the republic adopts the resolution, which her dearest interests require, the will cease to depend solely for her existence upon a precarious industry, one branches of which he is every day losing, and which, sooner greater, the will lose entirely. Her colonies, which comprehend every advantage, that a mercantile and landed nation can desire, will furnish productions, the whole profits and property of which will center in her. By her territorial acquisitions she will be enabled in every market to rival those nations, whose commodities he formerly served only to convey. In a word, Holland will cease to be a warehouse, and become a nation. She will find in America that confidence, which Europe has denied her. It remains to see, if Denmark, the only northern power, that has extended its trade and sovereignty into the new world has any reasonable foundation to conceive hopes of aggrandizing itself by them. DENMARK and Norway, which are at present united Danlid set under the same government, formed in the eighth centum stlenhnt at ry two different fates. While the former signalized it ml,, St self by the conquest of England, and other bold enter sana cz prises, the latter peopled the Arcades, Hero and Iceland. Urged by that restless spirit, which had always actuated their ancestors, the Scandinavians, this active nation b early as the ninth century formed an e.iblihment in Greenland, which country there is good reason to oppose is attached to the American continent. It is cic thought, notwithstanding the dark-elms which prevails over all the historical records of the north, that there are sufficient traces to induce a belief, that their navigators in the eleventh century were hardy enough to penetrate as far as the coasts of Labrador and Ne\wfoundlll.l, alnd,that
B O 0 K that they left some small colonies on them. Hence it s . probable that the Norwegians have a right to dispute with columbus the glory of having discovered the new world; at least, if those may be said to have made the discovery who were there without knowing it. Time wars which Norway had to sustain, till the time it became united to Denmark; the difficulties, which the government opposed to its navigation; the state of o.!i ion and inaction into which this enterprising nation sell, no: only lost it its colonies in Greenland, but also v whatever settlements or connections it might have had on the costs of America. IT was not till more than a century after the Genoese navigator had begun the conquest of that part of the v.-ord under the Spanish banner, that the Danes and Ncr.ve-ians, who were then become one nation, cast rei. eves upon that hemisphere, which was nearer to them than to any of tfc nations, who had already possessed tr.eneve.cs of different parts of it. They chore, how ever, to make their v.y into it by the shortest course, and therefore in 1619 sent captain Miunk to find out a passage by the north-wet into the pacific: ocean. His expedition was attended with as little success as those of many other navigators, both before and after him. IT may be presumed, that a disappointment in thei sirs attempt would not entirely have disgusted the Danes and that te' would have continued their American ex petitions till they had succeeded in forming some fettle ments, that might have rewarded them for their trouble If they loll fight of those distant regions, it was, be cause they were forced to it by wars in Europe, which their imprudence as well as their weakness had brough u,.-n then. Successive Insides reduced them to a deuce rete fate, from which they would never have recovercd,ha
had not the assistance of Holland and the steady persevere o o K,XII. ranceof the citizens of Copenhagen procured them a . peace in 1660, less humiliating and less destructive than they had reason to fear. THE government seized the first moment of tranquil city to probe the wounds of the state. Like all other Gothic governments, it was divided between an leave chief, the nobility or senate, and the commons. The king enjoyed no other pre-eminence than that of pre siding in the senate and commanding the army. In the intervals between the Diets, the government was in the hands of the senate: but all great affairs were referred to the Diets themselves, which were composed of the clergy nobility, and commonalty. THOUGH this constitution is formed upon the model of liberty, no country was less free than that of Den mark. The clergy had forfeited their influence from the time of the reformation. The burgesses had not yet ac quire wealth sufficient to make them considerable. These two orders were overwhelmed by that of the no ability, which was still influenced by the original feudal spirit, that reduces every thing to force. The critical situation of the affairs of Denmark did not inspire this body of men with that justice or moderation which the circumstances of the time required. They refused to contribute their proportion to the public expences, and by this refusal exasperated the members of the Diet. These, in the excels of their resentment invested the king with an absolute, unlimited power; and the nobles, who had driven them to this at of desperation, found them delves obliged to follow their example. AFTER this revolution, the mot imprudent, and the not singular that ever occurred in the annals of history, be Danes sell into a lethargy. To those great convulse VOL. Ill. T finis,
Bo 0 K sons, which are occasioned by' the clasping of imports. tant rights, succeeded the delusive tranquillity of servitude. A nation, which had filled the scene for several ages, appeared no more on the theatre of the world. In 1671, itjuft recovered so far from the trance, into which the access of despotism had thrown it, as to look abroad and take possession of a little American island, known by the name of St. Thomas.,THIS island, the farthest of the Caribbees towards the acts, was totally uninhabited, when the Danes un undertook to form a settlement upon it. They were at first opposed by the English, under pretence that force emi grants of that nation had formerly begun to clear it. The BritiSh ministry stopt the progress of this interference and the colony were left to form plantations of sugar, such as a sandy Coil of no greater extent than five leagues in length, and two and a half in breadth would admit of.,So sall a cultivation would never have given any im portance to the island of St. Thomas; but the sea has hollowed out from its coast an excellent harbour, in which fifty (hips may ride with security. So signal an advantage attracted both the English and French Buccaneers who were desirous of exempting their booty from the duties they were subjeA to pay in the settlements belong ing to their on nations. Whenever they had taken their prizes in the lower latitudes, from which they could not make the windward islands, they put into that of St. Thomas to dispose of them. It was also the aft lur. of all merchant ships which frequented it as a ncutra! port in tm of war. It was the mart, where the neigh. building colonies bartered their rcpcaive commodity: which they could not do elsewhere with so much cat and ifaftcy. It wan the port from which they continuall,dif
dispatched vessels richly laden to carry on a clandestine' 0 O K te with the Spanish coasts, in return for which they X. brought back considerable quantities of metal and mer chastises of great value. In a word, St. Thomas was a market of very great consequence. DENMARK, however, reaped no advantage from this raid circulation. The persons, who enriched them selves, were foreigners, who carried their wealth to other situations. The metropolis had no oilier communication* with its colony than by a single hip sent out annually to Africa ro purchase saves, which being sold in America, The hip returned home laden with the productions of that country. In 171t, their traffic increased by the clearing of the island of St. John, which is adjacent to St. Thomas, but not half so large. These ender begin ing would have required the addition of Crab island, or Pourriquen, where they had attempted to form a fettle ment two years before. TRIS island, which is from eight to ten leagues in circumference, has a considerable number of hills; but they are neither barren, steep, nor very high. The soil of the plains and vallies, which run between them, items to be very fruitful; and is watered by a number of springs, the water of which is said to be excellent. Nature, at the same time that he has denied it a har your, has made it amends by a multitude of the finest bays, that can be conceived. One can scarce fir a step without finding Come remains of plantations, rows of Orange and lemon trees, which make it evident, that the Spaniards of Porto-Rico, who are not further distant than five or fix leagues, had formerly fettled there. TRE English, offering that so promising an island vas without inhabitants, began to raise Come plantations here towards the end of the last century; but they hades ot
B 0 0 K not time to reap the fruit of their labour. They weft X.aIL surprized by the Spaniards, who murdered all the men,,and carried off the women and children to Porto-Rico. This accident did not deter the Danes from making for attempts to fettle there in 1717. But the fubjeas of Great-britain reclaiming their ancient rights, sent thither some adventurers, who were at first plundered, and soon after driven off by the Spaniards. The jealousy of these American tyrants extends, even to the prohibiting of sidling boats, to approach any shore where they have a right of possession, though they do not exercise it. Too idle to prosecute cultivation, too suspicious to admit in industrious neighbours, they condemn the Crab island to eternal solitude ; they will neither inhabit it themselve, nor sussex any other nation to inhabit it. Such an ever. tion of exclusive sovereignty, has obliged Denmark to give up this island for that of Santa Cruz.,San:a Cruz had a better title to become an object o national ambition. It is eighteen leagues in length, an from three to four in breadth. In 1643 it was inhabited by Dutch and English. Their rivalfhip in trade fool made them enemies to each other. In 1646, after a obstinate and bloody engagement the Dutch were beat and obliged to quit a spot upon which they had forme great expectations. The conquerors were employed i f-curing the consequences of their victor) ; when i 1650, they were attacked and driven out in their turn twelve hundred Spaniards, brought over thither in fir( snips. The triumph ofthefe lasted but a few months. 'T remains of that numerous body, ishich were left fort defence of tile island, surrendered without resistance to hundred and sixty French, who had embarked from S Christopher's to make then es mars of the ifiarn.,THE:
THESE new inhabitants lost no time to make them B o o K,XII. ives acquainted with a country so much in request. In a soil, in other repeat excellent, they found only one river of a moderate size, which gliding gently almost on a level with fe, through a flat country, furnished only brackish water. Two or three springs, which they found in the innermost parts of the island, made but fee able amends for this defeat. The ponds were for the most part dry. The construction of reservoirs required time. Nor was the climate more inviting to the new inhabitants The island being flat, and covered with old trees, scarcely afforded an opportunity for the winds to carry oft the poisonous vapours, with which its morasses clogged the atmosphere. There was but one remedy for this in convenience; which was to burn the woods. The French set fire to them without delay; and getting on board their Ships, became operators from the ea for several months of the conflagration they had railed in the island. As soon as the flames were extinguished, they went on flore again. THEY found the soil fertile beyond belief. Tobacco, cotton, ariosto, indigo, and sugar, flourished equally in it. So rapid was the progress of this colony, that in eleven years from its commencement, there were upon it eight hundred and twenty-two white persons, with a proportionable number of slaves. It was rising by hasty strides to a degree of prosperity, which would have eclipsed the most flourishing settlements of the French nation,'when such obstacles were thrown in the way of its activity as made its motions retrograde. Its decay was as sudden as its rise. In 1696 there were no more than one hundred and forty-seven men, with their wives and children, and fix hundred and twenty-three blacks 3 remaining;
B o K remaining; and thelc were transported from hence to St. Nil - I Domingo.,WRITERS, who take it for granted that the court of Versailles is always'governed in its decisions by the mol comprehensive views of profound policy, have supposed, that the neglect of Santa Cruz, was the result of a de termination to abandon the small islands, in order to unite all the strength, industry, and population in the large ones: but this is a mistaken notion. The resolution did not take its rise from the court, but from the farmers of the revenues, who found, that the contraband trade of Santa Cruz with St. Thomas, was detrimental to their interest. The spirit of finance has in all times been in curious to commerce; it has destroyed the womb in which it was bred. Santa Cruz continued without inhabitants and without cultivation till 1733, when it was sold by France to Denmark for 73S,coo livres (r). Conduct THIS northern power seemed likely to take deep root of Desk t in America. Unfortunately he laid her plantations un yards its der the yoke of exclusive privileges. Industrious peoples all sets, particularly Moravians, shrove in vain to overcome this great difficulty. Many attempts were made to reconcile the interests of the colonists and their op. pressure, but without success. The two parties kept up a continual struggle of animosity, not of industry. At length the government, with a moderation not to he ex pecked from its constitution, purchased in 754 the privileges and effects of the company. The price was fixed at 9,go90o,o livres (), part of which was paid down, and the remainder in bills upon the treasury, bearing in teres. From this time the navigation to the islands wa opened to all the fubjeas of the Danish dominions.,TliS (r) About 3ooo/. lerlrg. () About 43,00ooo. eri :
THE rapaciousness of the treasury unluckily prevented B 0 0 K,XII. the advantage which this arrangement would otherwise have produced. Indeed the national productions and merchandise, in short, whatever they could draw from the first hand, and put on board Danish vessels were to be shipped from the metropolis free of all duties; but for all manufactures that did not fall under these descriptions, they demanded a tax of four per cent. All imports into the colonies paid five per cent. and all exports, fix. Of American productions, what was consumed in the me metropolis, had two and a half per cent. laid upon it, and what was carried to foreign markets had one. AT the same time that the trade to the islands recovered its natural independence, at the expence of these burthensome religions, that to Africa, which is the basis of it, was likewise laid open. The government had above a century before purchased of the king of Aquambou, the two forts of Fredericksburg and Chriftianfburg, situated on the Gold Coast at a small distance from each other. The company, in virtue of its charter, had the sole possession of them; and exercised its privileges with that bar rarity, of which the polite European nations have set the example in these devoted climates. Only one of its agents had the resolution to renounce rhode cruelties, which custom had given a sanction to. So great was the reputation of his humanity, and the confidence reposed in his probity, that the blacks would come from the di stance of a hundred leagues to see him. The sovereign of a distant country sent his daughter to him with pre lents of gold and slaves, that Schiller (for so this Eu european, thus revered through all the coasts of Nigritia, was called) might give him a grandson. 0 virtue! ill dost thou exist in the fouls of these wretched beings, con denned to dwell with tygers, or groan beneath the yokes of
B 0 0 K of their own species ! They yet have hearts susceptible Nim -, of the soft impressions of humanity and beneficence!,Just and virtuous Dane! What monarch ever received so pure, so glorious a homage, as thy nation has seen thee enjoy? And where ? Upon a sea, upon a continent degraded for ever by an infamous trafic, of men ex changed for arms, and children sold by their parents, of crimes and misfortunes, carried on through two centuries We cannot sufficiently lament such horrors, and if we could, our lamentations would be useless the exclusive privilege of purchasing negroes, has, however, been abolished in Denmark as in other states. All the fubjeas of this commercial nation are permitted to buy men in Africa. They pay only eighteen livres (i) a head for every one they carry into America. Thirty thousand slaves, including ail ages and each sex, are em played already in their plantations, on which a poll-tax is laid of four livres ten fols.(u) The produce of their labours loads forty vessels, from one hundred and twenty to three hundred tons burthen. The plantations, which pay to the treasury an annual rent of nine livres () for every thousand feet square, furnish to the mother country a little coffee and ginger; one wood for inlaying; eight hundred bales of cotton, which are chiefly carried to foreign markets, and fourteen millions weight of raw sugar, four-fifths of which are consumed in the metro polis, and the rest is sold in the Baltic, or introduced into Germany by the way of Aitena. Santa Cruz, though the most modern of all the Danish settlements, furnishes five-seventh of this produce this island is divided into three hundred and fifty plantations by lines, which intersect each other at right angle., () Between fifteen and sixteen shillings. (a) About four Ceilings. (w) About eight shillings,
angles. Each plantation contains one hundred and fifty B 0 0 K,XII. acres, of forty thousand square feet each; tb that it may . occupy a space of twelve hundred common feet in length, bright hundred in breadth. Two-thirds of this trac are fit for the growth of sugar, and the proprietor may occupy fourscore acres at a time, each of which will yield, one year with another, sixteen quintals of sugar without reckoning the molasses. The remainder may be employed in other cultivations less lucrative. When the island comes to be entirely cleared, some towns may be built upon it; at present it has only the village of Christianity built under the fort, which defends the principal harbour. DENMARK cannot be ignorant, that the riches which Reasons begin to flow from her colonies, do not belong entirely why Den to herself. A great part goes to the English and Dutch, m;.glt to who, without living upon the islands, have formed theapirprriat best plantations in them. New England supplies them t he ro with wood, cattle, and meal, and receives in exchangel"rc of al1,hler islands. molasses and other commodities. They arc obliged like wise to import their wines, linens, and silks. Even In dia is concerned in this trade. Upon a firic calculation, perhaps, it might appear, that what remains to the pro praetors, after the commission, freight, and duties ae paid, is a very insignificant share. The situation of Den mark does not admit of her looking with indifference upon such a disadvantage Every thing conspires to in duce her to take proper measures for securing to herself the entire profits of her American possessions. THE Danish territories in Europe were formerly inde pendent of each other. Revolutions of a singular na ture have united them into one kingdom. In the center of this heterogeneous composition are Tome islands, the principal of which is called Zealand. It has an excel-lent
B O OK lent port, which in the eleventh century was but a little,. fishing town; it became a place of importance in the thirteenth, in the fifteenth, the capital of the kingdom, and since the fire in 1728, which consumed sixteen hun. died and fifty houses, a handsome city. To the south of these islands is that long and narrow peninsula, which the ancients called the Cimbrian Cherfonefus. Jutland, Slew wick and Holstein, the most important and extensive parts of this peninsula have been successively added to the Danish dominions. They have been more or less flourishing, in proportion as they have felt the effects of the unsettled temper of the ocean, which sometimes re tires from their coasts, and sometimes overwhelms them. In these countries, as well as in those of Oldenburg and Delmenhorif, which are subjeE to the same power, one may see a perpetual struggle between the inhabitants and the ea, so well sustained on each part, that the success has always been equal. The inhabitants of such a country will be free from the moment they feel that they are not so. Mariners, islanders, and mountaineers, will not long remain under the disgrace of servitude. NOR is Norway, which constitutes part of the Danish dominions, more adapted to servitude. It is covered with jonas or rocks, and interpreted by chains of barren mountains Lapland contains only a few wild people, either fettled upon the sea-coals, for the fake of fishing, &r wandering through frightful deserts, and subsisting by the chace, by their furs and their rein-deer. Iceland is a miserable country, which has been many times over turned by volcanos and earthquakes, and conceals with in its bowels a quantity of combustible matter, which in an infant may reduce it to a heap of ales. With re spect to Greenland, which the common people look up n s an island, and which geographers consider as unit-sed
ed towards the west to the American continent, it is a B 0 o K,XII. vast and barren country, condemned by nature to be eter- . nally covered with snow. If ever there coi4riies should become populous, they would be indeAtfrnt of each other, and of the king of Denrtic-,w -*. thinks at present that he rules over their wild inhaitbfonis be cause he calls himself their king, while they; io nothings the matter. THE climate of the Danish islands in Europe is not so severe as might 'e conjectured from the latitude they lie in. If the navigation of the gulfs, which surround them, is sometimes interrupted, it is not so much by ice formed there, as by what is driven thither by the winds, and by degrees collects into a mass. All the provinces which make part of the German continent, except Jut land, partake of the German temperature. The cold is very moderate even on the coasts of Norway. It rains there often during the winter, and the port of Bergen is scarcely once closed by ice, while that of Amsterdam, Lubec, and Hamburgh, is shut up ten times in the course of the year. It is true, that this advantage is dearly purchased by thick and perpetual fogs, which make Denmark a disagreeable and melancholy residence, and its inhabitants gloomy and low-spirited. THE population of this empire is not proportioned to its extent. In the earlier ages it was ruined by conti null emigrations. The piratical enterprises, which succeeded to these, kept their numbers from increasing; and a total want of order and government put it out of their power to remedy evils of such magnitude and im portance. The double tyranny of the prince over one order of his fubjeAs, who fancy themselves to be free, under the title of nobles, and of the nobility over a people entirely deprived of liberty, extinguishes even the,hopes
B O O hopes of an increase of population. The bills of mortality . of all the states of Denmark, excepting Iceland, taken together make the deaths in 1771 amount only to 55,125; so that upon the calculation of thirty-two living to one dead person, the whole number of inhabitants does not amount to more than ,764,00o. Indecencies of many other causes, the weight of imposts is a great obstacle to their prosperity. There are fixed taxes payable on land, arbitrary ones collected by way of capitation, and daily ones levied on consumption. This oppression is the more unjust, as the crown possesses a very considerable domain, and has likewise a certain resource in the straits of the found. Six thousand nine hundred and thirty hips, which, if we may judge from the accounts of the year 1768, annually pass into, or out of the Baltic, pay at the entrance of that sea about one per ct. upon all the commodities they are laden with. This species of tribute, which though difficult to raise, brings into the state two millions, five hundred thousand livres, (x) is received in the bay of Elinor, under the guns of the castle of Brandenburg. It is astonishing, that the situation of this bay and that of Copenhagen, (hould not have suggested the idea of forming a table here, where all the commercial nations of the north and south might meet and exchange the produce of their climates and their industry. WITH the funds arising from tributes, domains, customs and foreign subsidies, this state maintains an army of twenty-five thousand men, which is composed entirely of foreigners, and passes for the cry worst militia in Europe. On the other hand, its fleet is in the higheR reputation. It consists of thirty-two snaps of the line, fifteen or feteen frigates, and some ga!!-:, the us of,) car I sn~ri.which, (x) Near ,so,eczs. frriirg.
which, though wisely prohibited in other parts, cannot B 0 0 K be avoided on the coasts of the Baltic, which are for the most part inaccessible to vessels of other kinds. Twenty four thousand registered seamen, most of whom are conti annually employed, form a certain resource for their navy. To their military expences, the government has of late years added others for the encouragement of manufactures and arts. If we add to there, four millions of livres (y) for the necessary expences and amusements of the court, and about the same sum for the interest of the national debt, amounting to about seventy millions (z). We hall account for the disposition of about twenty-three millions of livres (a), which form the revenue of the crown. IF it was with a view of securing these several branches, that the government, in 1736, prohibited the use of jewels, and gold and silver stuffs, we may venture to say, there were plainer and easier means to be used for that purpose. They hould have removed a multitude of difficulties which clog the commercial intercourse of the citizens, and hinder a free communication between the different parts of the kingdom. The whale fishery, the Greenland and Iceland trade, once rescued from the bond age of monopolies, and that of the islands of Hero given up by the king, would have been pursued with new zeal. Their foreign connections would have received equal im provement if the Barbary company had been supprest, and all the members of the state had been released from the obligation, which was imposed upon them in 726, to buy their wine, salt, brandy, and tobacco, at Opens hagen.,IN (J) 75,coo0. telling. (z) About 3,c52,zos!. feeling. (a) About ,oo6,cco/. fling.
B O O K I the present slate of affairs, their exportations are but ,.L (mall. In the provinces on the German continent, they,conaift of five or fix thousand beeves, three or four thousand ores, fit for cavalry, and one rye, which is sold to the Swedes and Dutch. For one years pal, Denmark has consumed all the wheat, which Ionia and Allan used to export to other nations. Those two islands, as well as Zealand, have now no other traffic but in those magnificent harnesses, which are purchased at so dear a rate by all who love fine horses. The trade of Norway consists of herrings, timber, masts, tar, and iron. Lapland and Greenland produce furs. From Ice land they get cod, whale blubber, seals, and manatees, sulphur, and that luxurious down so celebrated under the name of eider-down. WE shall close here the details, into which the com mesne of Denmark has necessarily led us; and which are sufficient to convince that power, that nothing can con tribute so much to her interests as having the sole posses sion and traffic of all the productions of her American islands. The more her possessions are limited in the new world, as the always will be within the torrid zone, the more attentive ought she to be, not to let any of the ad vantages she might draw from them escape her. In a fate of mediocrity, the least negligence is attended with serious consequences. We shall presently have occasion to observe, that nations which are posies even of extensive and rich territories, do net commit faults with im. punitv.,END OF THE TWELFTH Boor.,BOOK
BOOK XIII. B 0 0 K XIII. Settlement of the Frdnh in the .american islands. FRANCE, ever since the fatal catastrophe of the First ex assassination of the best of her kings, had been in perfections tuas confusion, from the caprices of an intriguing queen, to the the oppressions of a rapacious stranger, and the schemes islands. of a weak-minded favourite. A despotic minister began to enslave the natives; when some of her sailors, ex cited as much by the desire of independence, as by the allurement of riches, turned fail towards the Leeward islands, in hopes of making themselves mailers of the Spanifh vessels that frequented those seas. Their courage had been successful on many occasions; but they were at last obliged, in order to refit, to seek for an asylum, which they found at St. Christopher's. This island ap feared to them a proper place for securing the success of their expeditions, and they were, therefore, desirous of procuring a settlement upon it. Demambuc, their chief, not only obtained leave to fettle there, but likewise to extend as far as he would or could, in the great Archipelago of America. Government required for this per-emission
Bo 0 Mission merely, without giving any assistance to the Xl/ . .scheme, or encouraging it with any protection, a twentieth part of the produce of every colony that might be founded. The A company was formed in 1626, in order to reap the French landsman benefit of this concession. Such was the customs those ois un times, when trade and navigation were vet in too weak a er exclu n i n *' dir primus fate to be intruded to private hands. This company ob times. gained the greatest privileges. The government gave them the property of all the islands they should cultivate, and empowered them to exam a hundred weight of to banco, or fifty pounds of cotton, of every inhabitant, from sixteen to sixty years of age. They were likewise to enjoy an exclusive right of buying and selling. A ca vital of forty-five thousand livres (b) only, and which was neer increased to three times that sum, procured them all there advantageous seemed impossible to effect any greater matters with inadequate means. Yet, fwarrr.s of bold and enterprising men poured out from St. Christopher's, who hoisted the French flag in the neighbouring islands. Had the com any which excited this spirit of invasion by a few privileges aced upon a consistent and rational plan, the state must soon have reaped some advantage from this restless disposition. But unfortunately an inordinate thirst of gain made them become unjust and cruel; a fate that ever did, and ever will attend monopolizers. THE Dutch, apprized of this tyranny, came and of served provisions and merchandise on far more moderate terms, and made proposals which were readily accepted. This laid the foundation of a connection between those republicans and the colonists, that could never afterwards be brooch; and formed a competition, not only fatal goethe
the company in the new world, where it prevented the B 0 0 K sale of their cargoes, but even pursued them in all the , markets in Europe, where the interlopers undersold all the produce of the French islands. Discouraged by there deserved disappointments, the company sunk into a total inaction, which deprived them of most of their emoluments without lessening any of their expences. In vain did the government remit the stipulated reserve of the twentieth part of the profit; this indulgence was not sufficient to restore their aivity. Some of the proprietors were of opinion that by renouncing the destructive principles which had been hitherto adopted, they might frill recover the ground they had lost: but the greater number thought it impracticable, maugre all their advantages to cope with ucll frugal private traders as their rivals were. This opinion brought on a revolution. The company, to prevent their total ruin, and that they might not fink under the weight of their engagements, put their possessions up to auction: which were mostly bright up by their respective governors. IN 1649, Boifleret purchased, for seventy-three thou sand livres,(c) Guadalupe, Marigalante, the island called ti Saints, and all the cfecas belonging to the company on these several islands: he afterwards parted with half in favour of Hotel his brother-in-law. In 165o, Du paroquet paid but forty-thousand livres) for Martinico, St. Lucia, Granada, and the Granaries. Seven years after. he sold Granada and the Granaries to Count Ccrillac, for one third more than he had given for his where purchase. Iln ci, Malta bought St. Christopher St. Martin, St. Bartholomew, Santa Cruz, and Torture, for forty thousand crowns,(e) which were paid down by the commandant of Poincy, who governed VOL. III. U thole (<*) 3, 9 31. IS$. (d'i} S 2,6 (e) 5,2501
B o o K those islands. The knights of Malta were to hold them u. . in fief of the crown, and were not allowed to intrust any,but a Frenchman with the administration of them. THE new possessors enjoyed an unlimited authority and disposed of the lands. All places both civil and military were in their gift. They had the right of par doing those whom their deputies condemned to death; in fort, they were so many petty sovereigns. It was natural to expect that as their domains were under their own inspection, agriculture would make a rapid progress. This conjecture was in some measure realized, notwithstanding the contests which were necessarily harp and frequent under such masters. However, this second state of the French colonies did not turn out more beneficial to the nation than the first. The Dutch continued to furnish them with provisions, and to bring away the pro duce, which they sold indiscriminately to all nations, even to that, which ought to have reaped the sole advan. take of it, because it was her own property the mother-country suffered considerably from this evil, and Colbert mistook the means of redress. That great man, who had for some timeprelided over the finances and trade of the kingdom, had let out upon a wrong plan. The habit of living with the farmers of the revenue un der the administration of Mazarin, had accustomed him to consider money, which is but an instrument of circulation as the source of every thing. He imagined that ma nufacures were the readiest wav to draw it from abroad; and that in the work-sops were to be found the best resources of the state, and in the tradesmen the most useful subjects of the monarchy. To increase the number of these men, he thought it best to keep the necessaries of life at a low price, and to discourage the exportation of corn. The production of materialists
ras the heart object of his care, and he bent his whole at I O O K mention to the manufacturing of them. This preference oft, ~ industry to agriculture became the reigning taste, and unfortunately this dcftruaive system still prevails. HAD Colbert entertained just notions of the improve ment of lands and of the encouragement it requires, and of the liberty the husbandman muff enjoy, he would have pursued in 166+ a very different plan from that which he adopted. It is well known that he redeemed Guada- luke and its dependent islands for one hundred and twen- ty-five thousand livres;(f) Martinico for forty thousand crowns ;(g) the Granades for a hundred thousand livres; (h) and all the possessions of Malta for five hundred thousand livest) So far his conduct was deserving of commendation: it was fit he hould restore so many branches of sovereignty to the body of the state. But he ought never to have submitted possessions of such im portance to the oppressions of an exclusive company; a measure proscribed as much by past experience, as by reason. Ministry was probably in hopes that a society into which were to be incorporated those of Africa, Cayenne, and North-america, and what little trade was beginning to be carried on upon the coasts of St. Do lingo, would become an irresistibly permanent power, from the great combinations it would have opportunities of forming, and the facility it would be supplied with of repairing from one quarter, the losses it might sustain in another. They thought to secure the future splendor of the company by lending them the tenth part of the amount of their capital, free from interest for four years, by permitting the exportation of all provisions duty free into their settlements, and by prohibiting as much as they could, the competition of the Dutchess 2 Not r) ,468l. aI. (g) 5,50o/, (1) 4,375, (i) :1,8751.
B 0 0 K NOTWITHSTANDING all these favours, the company XII., . was never in a flourishing slate. The errors the), sell in.,to Lr-cn.ed to increase in proportion to the number ofcon- ceiioans tht had been injudiciously bellowed upon them, The knavery of their agent, the disheartened condition of the colonists, the devastations of war with other causes, concurred to throw their affairs into the utmost confusion. Their ruin was advancing, and appeared in .ev:tatab'e in 1674, when the ate judged it proper to py off their debts, which amounted to three millions, five hundred and twenty-three thousand livres,(k) and to reimburse them their capital of one million, two hundred eiahtv-levcn thousand, one hundred and eighty-five - ores (i) I hose generous terms restored to the body cd the fate those valuable possessions which had been hither. to as it-ere alienated from it. The colonies were true; Fret-ch, and all the citizens without distinction, were at libcr:v to go and fettle there, or to open a communi. cation with them. The TsiEY were now freed from the chains under which folds r- the h d f' long been oppresses', and nothing ferret ca cui-r hir pab!e of abating the aci';e spirit of labour and industry. liberi. O-'clei-s Tie transports of joy this event occasioned in the islands-'i- in;- can hardy be expressed. Every individual ave a f!l peat their fucci. .scope to his ambition, and thought hirfcf at the eve ;making an immense fortune. If they were deceived in these expectations, this cannot be attributed either to their presumption or their indolence. Their hopes were very rn2rur.l, and their whole conduct was such 2i j:i':i.d and confirmed them. Unfortunately the rtrl- dir-s of the mother country threw insurmountable if-cuiics in their way.,FIR!T
FIRST, it was required even in the islands, that every B 00 KI free man, and every lave of either fcx, hould pay a , yearly poll-tax of a hundred weight of raw sugar. In vain did they remonstrate that the condition imposed upon the colonies, to trade only with the mother country was of itself a efficient hardship, and a eaibn why they should be exempted from all other taxes. There re presentations were not attended to, as they ought to have been. Whether from necessity, or firm ignorance on the part of government, those farmers who ought to have been assisted with loans without interest, or with gratuities saw part of their harvest collected by greedy, tax gatherers; which, had it been returned into their own fertile fields, would gradually have increased their pro duce. WHILST the islands were thus script of part of their provisions, the spirit of monopoly was taking sexual measures in France to reduce the price of what was left them. The privilege of buying them up was Ih;.ited to a few sea-ports. This was a manifest infringement of the essential rights vested in the other harbours of the kingdom; but to the colonies it proved a very unfortunate restriction, because it lessened the number of buyers and fellers on the coasts. To this disadvantage another was on added. The ni niflry had endeavoured to exclude all foreign vcffcls from those distant pollutions, and h:d succeeded, because they were in earless. These navigators obtained from avarice the privilege that was denied them hb the laws. They purchased of the French merchants passes to go to the colonies, where they took in their latins, and carried them directly to their own country. This unfair deal ing might have been punished and suppressed in many 4Sb:rent w.'v, and they fixed upon the most pcrnicious.,U 3 All
B O 0 K All hips were required to give in their return, not only XIII. Is. at home, but likewise at the ports from whence they assailed. This restraint necessarily brought on a confide able expence to no purpose, and could not fail of en dancing the price of American commodities. THE sale of sugar, the molt important of there corn modifies, on met with another check. The refiners, in 62, petitioned that the exportation of raw sugars might be prohibited; in which they seemed to be in fuer.ced merely by public good. They alledged, that it was repugnant to all found principles that the original produce should be sent away to support foreign manu features, and that the fate should voluntarily deprive it self of the profits of so valuable a labour. This play. bible reasoning made too much impression upon Colbert; and the consequence of it was; that the refining of sugar was kept up at the same exorbitant price, and the art itself never received any improvement. This was not ap proved by the people who consumed this article: the French sugar-trade sank and that of the rival nations was visibly increased.,SOME of the colonists, observing that the system was not dropped notwithstanding this fatal experiment, foi limited leave to fine their own sugars. They had so many means of going through this process at a trifling expence, that they flattered themselves they might soon recover that preference they had lost in the foreign markets. This change was more than probable, had not every hundred weight of refined sugar they sent home, been clogged with a duty of eight livres(nm) on entering the kingdom. All they could do under the load of this heavy imposition, was to bear up against the competition of the refiners in France. The produce of the rcfpec-,ti'O ()) :.
time manufactures was all consumed at home, and those 0 0 K in power chief rather to relinquish an important branch, . of trade, than to own' that they had been guilty of a, mistake in prohibiting the importation of raw sugars. FROM this period, the colonies, which supplied twenty seven millions weight of sugar, could not dispose of it all in the mother-country, which consumed but twenty millions. The want of a demand made it needless to grow any more than what was necessary. This medium could only be fettled in process of time, and before this was effort, the commodity sank to the lowest ebb. This fall, which was likewise owing to the negligent manner of refining it, was so great, that raw sugar, which sold for fourteen or fifteen livres,(n) per hundred, in 1682, fetched no more than five or fix,(o) in 7!3. THE low price of the staple commodity would have made it impossible for the colonists to increase the number of their slaves, even if the government by its proceed kings had not contributed to this mischief. The negro trade was always in the hands of exclusive companies, who imported but few, on purpose to keep up their price. We have good authority to art that in 1698 there were not twenty thousand negroes in those numerous fettle ments; and it may safely be affirmed that moll of there had been brought in by interlopers. Fifty-four ships of a moderate size were sufficient to bring over the whole pro duce of there colonies. THE French islands could not but fink under oi many difficulties. If the inhabitants did not forsake them, and carry their industry elsewhere, their perseverance must be attributed to some trifling advantages, which still kept them in hopes of better times. The culture of tobacco, cocoa, indigo, cotton and ariosto, was rather encouragers 4 Go (n) Between Is. and Izs. (0) Not quite 5s. on an average.
B O K Government supported it indirectly, by laying heavy du,,,ties on the foreign importation of thee articles. This flight favour gave them time to wait for a happier rei solution which was brought about in 1716. AT this period, a plain and simple regulation was sub fitted in lieu of equivocal orders, which greedy officers of the revenue had from time to time extorted from the wants and weakness of government. The merchandise destined for the colonies was exempted from all taxes. The duties upon American commodities designed for home consumption were greatly lessened. The goods brought over for exportation were to be entered and clear ed out freely, upon pah ing three pr cent. The duties laid upon foreign sugars were to be levied every where alike, without any regard to particular immunities, except in cases cf re-exportation in the ports of Bayonne and lar filles. IN granting so many favours to her remote positions, the mother county vias not unn,i'ldful of her own in interests. All merchai:dil' prohibited at home, was alia forbidden in the colc:ces. To cure the preference to their own manufactures, it was enacted that even full goods as were not prichb:ted, should pay duty on their entry into France, although they were destined for the ClIsiecs. Salt beef alone, which the mother-country could no: furni i competition, was exempted from this obligation. This regulation w uld have ;tern as rood a one as the times would admit of, if the edict had allowed hat the trade frcm: America, which till then had been confined to a few' fel-ports, f'iioid be general, and had released ships from the lne.cilitv of returning to the place from whence hey ca-ce. 'I hel restraints limited the nur-.br; f, famenl raie d the expences of navirgtin, and prevented
the exportation of the territorial productions. B 0 0 K,XIII. The persons who were then concerned in the govern ^ . ment of the fate ought to have been aware of these in conveniences, and no doubt intended one day to restore to trade that freedom and action which alone can make it flourish. They were probably forced to sacrifice their own maxims to the clamours of men i office, who loud ly disapproved of whatever clashed with their interest. Notwithstanding this weakness, the colonists, who had reluctantly given up the hopes of an excellent soil, bellowed their most industry upon it, as soon as they were allowed that liberty. Their success astonished all na tions. If government, on the arrival of the French in the new world, had but foreseen what they learned from experience a century later, the slate might soon have en toyed from the advantages of cultivation that wealth which would have added more to its prosperity than con quests. It would not then have been as much ruined by its victories as by its defeats. Thole wile ministers who repaired the losses of war by a happy revolution in trade, would not have had the mortification to see that Santa Cruz was evacuated in 1696, and St. Christopher's given up at the peace of Utrecht. Their concern would have been greatly heightened, could they have foreseen that in 1763, we sould be reduced to deliver up the Granades to the English. Strange infatuation of the ambition of nations, or rather of kings ! Ater sacrificing thousands of lives to acquire and to preserve a remote possession, a greater number must fill he lavished to lose Settlements f the it. Yet France has feri.c important colonies left: let us French in begin with Guiana, which lies to windward of all theGuina well. ons of th.t,cololly. THE great extent of this immense country is evident Its adian- from its very boundaries. It is limited on the cat by the t" s an-,occan ; vn;cncr.
B O O K ocean; on the north by the Oronooko; on the' south by,.the Amazons; on the weft by the Rio-negro; which joins those two rivers, the largest in South-america. Guiana, in this position, may be considered as an island, at least two hundred leagues over from north to south, and above three hundred from east to weft. THE people who roved about this vast that, so fortunately bounded, before the arrival of the Europeans, were divided into several nations, none of which vere very numerous. Their manners were the same as those of the savages of the southern continent. The Caribs on ly, who from their numbers and courage were more turbulent than the rest, distinguished themselves by a re markable custom in the choice of their chiefs. To be qualified to govern such a people, it was necessary a man should have more strength, more intrepidity, and more knowledge than the rest of his brethren, and that he hould give evident and public proofs of there superior qualifications. THE man, therefore, who aspired to the honour of leading his fellow-creatures muff of course be well ac quaint with all the places fit for. hunting and fishing, and with all the springs and roads. He was obliged to endure long and severe fais; and was afterwards ex posed to carry burthens of an enormous weight. He used to pass several nights as a sentinel, at the entrance of the carpet or principal hut. He was buried up to the waif in an ant's nest, where he remained for a confider able time, exposed to sharp and bloody sings. If in all these situations he shewed a strength and fortitude fit to cope with the dangers and hardships incident to shelves of savages; if he was one who could endure every thing and fear nothing, he was declared to be the man. He with drew, however, as if conscious of what his intended,dignity
dignity required; unconcealed himself under thick busies. B o' I- The people went out to seek him in a retreat, which X,# made him more worthy of the post he seemed to shun. Each of the assistants trod upon his head, to flew him, that being raised from the duff by his equals, it was in their power to fink him into it again, if ever he hould be forgetful of the duties of his station. Such was the ceremony of his coronation. After this political lesson, all the bows and arrows were thrown at his feet, and the nation was obedient to his laws, or rather to his ex ample. SUCH were the inhabitants of Guiana, when the Spa niard Alphonfo de Ojeda first landed there in 1499, with Americus Vesuvius, and John de la Cosa. He went over a part of it; but this voyage afforded him only a super filial knowledge of so vast a country. Many others were undertaken at a greater expence, but turned out Rill more unsuccessful. Yet they were fill persisted in, from a mo time which ever did and ever will deceive mankind. A report prevailed, tho' its origin could not discovered, that in the interior parts of Guiana, there was a country, known by the name of del Dorado, which contained im mense riches in gold and precious stones, more mines and treasures then ever Cortez and Pizarro had found. This fable not only inflamed the ardent imagination of the Spa niards, but fired every nation in Europe. SIR Walter Raleigh in particular one of the molt ex extraordinary men that ever appeared in a country abound ing in singular charters, was seized with this enthusiasm He was passionately fond of every thing that was magnificent; he enjoyed a reputation equal to that of the greatest men; he had more knowledge than those whose immediate pursuit was learning; he possessed a freedom of thinking uncommon in those days; and had a kind unromantic
B O OK romantic turn in his sentiments and behaviour. This,turn of mind determined him, in 1595, to undertake a voyage guiana; but he returned without discovering any thing relative to the object of his voyage. On his return, however, he published an account, full of the moor brilliant impostures that ever amused the credulity of mankind. THE French had not waited for this fallacious testimony to turn their thoughts towards so famous a country They had long before embraced the general prejudice with a vivacity peculiar to themselves. V.'hiil the hopes of their rivals were engaged on the fide of the Oro nook, they fought to realize their own expectations up on the river Amazon. After many fruitless excursions, they at length settled on the island of Cayenne in 1635. Some merchants of Rouen, thinking that this fettle men: might turn out to advantage, united their flock in 1643. They intrusted their affairs in the hands of a fe precious man, named Ponce de Bretagne, who having declared war both against the colonists and the savages, was soon murdered. This catastrophe having damped the courage of the associates, a fresh company started up in 165i, which seemed to bid fair for out-doing the former. They set out with so large a capital as to enable them to c!iecd, in Paris items, even or eight hundred colonies. These embarked on the Seine, in order to fail down t' Havre de Grace. Unfortunately the virtuous Abb de Marivaux, ho was the foul of this undertaking, and was to ha.'e bad the management of it as director-general, :las drowned as he was epping into his boat. Roiille, a gentleman of Normandy, who was going over to Cay anne as general, was assassinated in the passage. Twelve of the principal adventurers, who were the perpetrators of this deed-nd had undertaken to put the colony into £oo;ii'n.:= condition, behaved there in as atrocious almanac;
manner as might be expected from so horrid a beginning. B o o K;,XIII. They hanged one of their own number ; two died; three . were banished to a desert hand: the rest abandoned themselves up to all kinds of excess. The commandant of the citadel deferred to the Dutch with part of his gar ripon. The remainder, that had escaped hunger, poverty and the fury of the savages, which had been roused by numberless provocations, thought themselves happy in being able to get over to the Leeward islands in a boat and two canoes. They abandoned the fort, ammunition, arms, and merchandise, with five or fix hundred dead bodies of their wretched companions, fifteen months after they had landed on the island. A new company was fct on foot in 1663, under the direction of.La Barge, master of requests. Their capital was no more than two hundred thousand livres). The assistance they obtained from the ministry, enabled them to expel theDutch, who, under the conduct of Stranger, had taken possession of the lands granted to them, after they had been evacuated by their countrymen. A year after, this small body made a part of that company and the possessions and privileges of all the rest were united. Cayenne returned into the hands of government, at that happy period which restored freedom to all the colonies. It was taken in 1667 by the English, and in 676 by the Dutch; but has never even been attacked since that time. THIS settlement, so often overturned, had but just begun to be re-established, and to enjoy rome tranquillity, when great hopes were entertained of its success. Some pirates, laden with spoils they had gathered in the South Seas, came and fixed there ad, what was of greater consequence, rcfu!vcd to employ their treasures in the cultivation of,the j) 8,7501. Sterling.
30o0 E the lands. It was probable, that their .plan would e, ofr executed with vigour, because their means were great;,when Ducafe, who was reputed an able seaman, came with some ships, in 1688, and proposed to them the plundering of Surinam. This rouzed their natural taste; the new colonist beame pirates again, and almost all the in habitants followed their example the expedition proved unfortunate. Some of the be fingers sell in the attack, the rest were taken prisoners, and sent to the Caribbees, where they fettled. The co tony has never recovered this loss. Far from extending into Guiana, it has only languished at Cayenne. THIS island is only parted from the continent by two rivers. It may be about sixteen leagues in circumference. By a disposition very uncommon in islands, and which makes it not very fit to be inhabited, the land is high near the water side, and low in the middle. Hence it is inter seed with o many morasses, that all communication is impracticable, without taking a great circuit. Until the lands that are under water are drained, and secured from future inundations by dykes properly raised, there will be no place fit for culture, except the rising grounds. There are some small tracts of an excellent soil to be found there, but the generality is dry, sandy, and on spent. The only town on the colony is defended by a covert way, a large ditch, a very good mud rampart, and five bastions. In the middle of the town, is a pretty considerable emi hence, of which a redoubt has been made that is called the fort, where forty men might capitulate after the place had been taken. The entrance into the harbour is through a narrow canal, and Chips can only get in at high water, through the rocks and reefs that are scattered about this pass.,THE
THE rft produce of Cayenne, was the ariosto. This B O0 K is a red dye, called by the Spaniards arhiote, into which , they dip white wool, whatever colour they intend to give it. The tree hat yields this lye, has a reddish bark, and large, strong, and hard leaves, of a dark green. It is as high as a plumb-tree, and more bushy. The flowers, that grow in hunches, not unlike wild roes, are succeeded twice a year by pods, as prickly as the (hell of a chesnut, but smaller. They contain one little feeds of a pale red, and these make the ariosto. As soon as one of the eight or tes: pods that grow in a bunch opens of itself, all the rest may be gathered. All the feeds are then to be taken out, and thrown directly into are troughs, full of water. When the fermentation begins, the feeds are to be bruised several times with wooden pestles, till the skin is all come off. The whole is then poured into sieves, made of rushes, which retain all the solid parts, and let out a thick, reddish, and fetid liquor into iron coppers. As it boils, the scum is kim med off, and saved in large pns. When the liquor yields no more form, it is thrown away as useless, and the scum poured back into the copper. THIS feud, which is to be boiled for ten or twelve hours, must be.conftantly stirred with a wooden spatula, to prevent its flicking to the copper, or turning black. When it is boiled enough, and somewhat hardened, it is spread upon boards to cool. It is then made up into cakes of two or three pounds weight, and the whole business is finished. FROM the culture of the ariosto, Cayenne proceeded to that of cotton, of indigo, and at last of sugar. It was the first of all the French colonies that attempted to grow coffee; which was brought thither in 72a by fonte de fetters, who purchased their pardon by conveying it from,Surinam,
B O K Surinam, where they had taken refuge. Ten or twelve years after they planted cocoa. In 1752, 260,541 pounds weight of ariosto, o,363 pounds of sugar, 17,919 pounds of cotton, 26,ES1 pounds of coffee, 91,916 pounds of co coa, 68 pieces of timber, nd e4. planks, were ex ported from the colony. All these articles were the fruit of the labour of ninety French families, a hun died and twenty-five Indians, and fifteen hundred blacks, which made up the whole of the colony such, and weaker still, was the state of Cayenne, when, to the astonishment of the public, in 1763, the court of Versailles endeavoured to raise its consequence The French had then tuft emerged from the horrors of an unsuccesSful war. The Situation of affairs had de termined the ministry to purchase peace with the cession of several important colonies. It appeared equally ne cesare to make the nation forget her calamities, and the errors that had been the cause of them. The prospect of better fortune might amuse the people, and silence their clamours; while their attention was removed from possessions the nation had lost, and turned towards Gui ana, which, it was given out, would compensate all their misfortunes. THIS vast country, which was long decorated with the pompous title of Equinoctial France, was not the sole property of that power, as it had been formerly pretended. The Dutch, by fettling to the north, and the Portuguese to the south, had confined the French between the rivers of Maroni and Vincent Pincon ; which limits were fixed by several treaties. These boundaries were equally di slant from Cayenne, and the extent between them com pretends no less than a hundred leagues of the fe-coast. The navigation along this coast is extremely difficult, on account of the rapidity of the currents, and is con-,tinually
tiaually obstructed by small islands, banks of sand and B 0 0 K,XIII. of hardened mud, and by strong mangroves closely en tangled that extend two or three leagues into the sea. There is no harbour, few places where ships can land, and the lightest fools often meet with insuperable difficulties The large and numerous rivers that water this continent are not more navigable. Their bed in many places is barred by huge rocks, which makes it impossible to fail through it. The shore, which is flat almost in all parts, is mostly overflowed by the spring-tides. In the inland country, mos of the low lands are only mo raises in the rainy season. Then there is no safety but upon higher ground. These torrents of water, how ever, that suspend all the labours of the field, moderate the heat of the weather, without producing that malignant influence upon the climate which might be apprehended from them. Uncertain conjectures can only be formed of the population of the inland parts. That of the ea coast may amount to nine or ten thousand men, divided into several nations, the most powerful of which are the Alibi. Some missionaries, by great attention and perseverance, have found means to fix rome of thole roving nations, and even to reconcile them to the French, against whom they had with reason enter gained the most formidable prejudices. The first ad venturers who frequented this region, took away or brought men, whom they condemned to the harder la hours of slavery on the very soil where they were born free, or sold them to the colonists of the Leeward islands. Their common price at first was twenty pistoles (q) a head. Happily for the inhabitants, they rote to exorbitant in their demands, that no purchasers could be found. It was thought better to purchase negroes, who VOL. 111. X were,(i) 161. Miss.
B 0 0 K were almost as expert at hunting and fishing. and much XlII. .Xi . more Co at the labours of the great plantations that were then carrying on in every part. Guiana, as we have described it, appeared a very valuable resource to the French ministry, reduced as they were to the necessity of repairing the great mistakes they had commited. A few considerations will enable us to judge of their motive san erica presents itself to Europe under two different views. It offers to those who emigrate from us, two zones to be peopled and cultivated, the torrid, and the temperate northern zone. The first, more fruitful, and more rich, but merely so in articles of luxury and indulgence, must of course afford a brighter prospect, and convey a speedier and more extensive influence to the powers that made themselves matters of it. This zone being more apparently calculated for despotism, be cause the heat of the climate and the fertility of the soil, dispose men to become slaves for the fake of quiet and pleasure, was therefore most fit to be in the hands of absolute monarchies, and to be peopled with slaves, who should only cultivate such productions as were pro per to enervate the vigour and elasticity of the fibres, by increasing the number of our quick sensations. Themes that abound there, affording wealth without labour, must naturally hasten the decay of states, by the occasion they afford of exciting our desires and our facility of enjoyments. The nations that inhabit that zone mute of course, either fall into indolence, or engage in undertakings suggested by a ruinous ambition, which becomes the more so from its first successes. Mistaking the fruit or sign of wealth for the creative principle of political strength, those rates fondly imagined, that with money they could keep the nations in their pay as they kept the negroes in their chains;,and
and never considered that the very money which would B 0 0 K procure allies, would make of them so many powerful . enemies; who, uniting their arms with foreign riches, would exert this double force to subvert the whole. THE temperate zone of North-america could only at trac free and laborious people. It furnishes no productions but what are common and necessary; and which, for that very reason, are a never failing source f wealth and strength. It favours population, by supplying ma trials for that peaceful and sedentary husbandry which fixes and multiplies families; and, as it does not excite inordinate desires, is a security against invasion. It ex tends through an immense continent, and presents a large extent, on every side open to navigation. Its coasts are washed by a sea which is generally in a navigable fate, and abounds with harbours. The colonists are not at so great distance from the mother country; they live in a climate more analogous to their own; and in a tuition that is fit for hunting, fishing, husbandry, and for all the manly exercises and labours which improve the strength of the body, and are preservatives against the vices that taint the mind. Thus, in America as in Europe, the north will get the better of the south. The one will be covered with in habitants and plantations, whilst the other will lavish its voluptuous liquors and its golden mines. The one will be able to polish the savage nations by their intercourse with a free people; the other will never form but a mon fibrous and feeble mixture of a race of slaves with a na tion of tyrants. IT was of consequence to the southern colonies to have the roots of population and vigour in the north, where they might exchange the commodities of luxury for those of necessity, and keep open a communication that might afford them succours if they were attacked; a retreat in,X 2 case
B o O K case they were defeated, and a supply of land forces to XIII.,balance the weakness of their naval resources before the last war, the French southern colonies en toyed this advantage. Canada, by its situation, the war like genius of its inhabitants, their alliances with the In tian nations in friendship with the French, and fond of the frankness and freedom of their manners, might ba lance, or at least give umbrage to New-england. The loss of that great continent determined the French mini try to seek for support from another. Guiana was thought to be no bad substitute, if a free and national population could be established there, which might be able to refill foreign attacks, and in course of time, to furnish a speedy distance to the other colonies, when circumstances might require it.,SUCH was evidently the system of the minister. He did not imagine, that a region thus inhabited, could ever enrich the mother country by the produce of such commodities as are peculiar to the southern co ionics. He was too intelligent not to know, that there is no such thing as selling, without complying with the general run of the market, and that this cannot be done but by producing saleable commodities at the same rate as other nations can afford them, and that labours executed by free men, must of necessity bear a much higher price than those that are exacted from slaves. THE measures were directed by an native minister. As a wise politician, who does not sacrifice safety to wealth, he only proposed to raise a bulwark to proteA the French possessions. As a philosopher, who feels for his fellow-creatures who knows and repeat the rights of humanity he wished to people these fertile but desert regions with free men. But genius, especially when too impatient of success, cannot fore fee every circumstance. he,mifltke
mistake proceeded from supposing that Europeans would be B 0 O K able to undergo the fatigues of preparing lands for curtis XII nation under the torrid zone; that men, who quitted their own country only in hopes of living more comfortably abroad, would accommodate themselves to the precarious subsistence of a savage life, in a worse climate than that which they had left; or lastly, that it would be an easy matter to establish an intercourse of importance between Guiana and the French islands. THIS bad system, which the government was drawn into by a set of bold men, who were either milled by their presumption, or who sacrificed the public good to their own private views, was as extravagantly executed as it had been inconsiderately adopted. All was jumbled to gather, without any principle of legislation, and without considering in what manner nature had suited the several lands to the men who were to inhabit them. The in habitants were divided into two classes, the proprietors and the mercenaries. They were not aware, that this division, at present established in Europe and in most civilized nations, was the consequence of wars, of revolutions, and of the numberless chances which ime brings on; that it was the effect of the progress of sociability, not the basis and foundation of society, which in its beginning requires that all her members should partake of her po party. Colonies, which are new populations and new societies, ought to adhere to this fundamental rule. It was here broken through at first setting out, by allotting lands in Guiana to those only who were able to advance a certain fund for the cultivation of them. Others, whose desires were tempted with uncertain hopes, were excluded from this division of lands. This was a fault both against found policy and humanity. Had they granted 2 portion of land to every new inhabitant that was ent,X 3 over
B O o K over to this barren and desert country, each would have XIII.,cleared his own spot, and have tilled it in proportion to his strength or abilities, one with the assistance of his mo ney, another by his own labour. It was necessary that those who were palsied of capital should neither be d discouraged, because they were men of great consequence to a rising co tony, nor that they hould have an exclusive preference given them, left it hould prevent them from meeting as infants who might be willing to be dependent on them. It was also indispensably necessary, that every member of the new transmigration should be offered rome property, with which he might turn his labour, his industry, his money, in a word, his greater or lesser powers to his ad vantage. It ought to have been foreseen, that Europeans, in whatever situation, would not quit their own country but in hopes of better fortune, and that deceiving their hopes and confidence in this respect, would be an effectual way to ruin the colony intended to be established. IN vain did government supply the colonists with two years subsistence. This was too much provision at once. It mush spoil, either in the transport, or at the end of the voyage. The very passage, in which some part mush be consumed, and the rest injured, could not but make these provisions dear, scarce, and noxious. A hot climate, and a damp country, would be additional causes of pu trefaicion among the eatables, and of firmness and mortality among the men. It would have been a folly to pre tend to carry over from Europe to Guiana a sufficient quantity of live cattle to furnish fresh meat every day for a numerous colony. Most of them would have died, either in the passage or at their arrival; for as animals are more immediately under the direction of nature, they are the more affected by the sudden alterations of the air, and by the change of climate and food.,T:;E
THE increase of cattle should have preceded that ofB O O K,XIII men. Both (hould have multiplied by degrees, and the feeds of culture in that distant region have been laid in, before the inhabitants were become too numerous. The first transports should have been small, and attended with every advance, every assistance necessary for clearing the lands. In proportion as the infant colony should have produced enough and even more than was necessary for their own consumption, the purchase of the overplus would have become a sources increase. Agriculture and population would then have mutually assisted and promoted each other. The new colonists would have drawn others as ter them, and society, like individuals, would have ar rived at its, proper strength and maturity in the space of twenty years. THESE very simple and natural reflections never oc cursed to the contrivers of this scheme. Twelve thou sand men, after a tedious navigation, were landed upon dreary and inhospitable horses. It is well known that alors throughout the torrid zone, the year is divided into two seasons, the dry and the rainy. In Guiana, such heavy rains fall from the beginning of November to the end of May, that the lands are either overflowed, or at least unfit for tillage. Had the new colonists arrived there in the beginning of the dry season, and been placed on the lands destined for them, they would have had time to put their habitations in order, to cut down or burn the woods, and to plough and sow their fields. FOR want of these precautions, they knew not where to bestow such multitudes of people as were constantly pour ing in just at the rainy season. The island of Cayenne might have been a proper place for the reception and re freshmen of the new comers, till they could have been disposed of; there they would have found lodging and,X 4 aflilt-
B 0 0 K assistance. But the false notion which prevailed, that thei new colony must nor be intermixed with the old, de-deprived them of this resource. In consequence of this prejudice, twelve thousand aims were landed on the banks of the Kourou, on a ridge of sand, amidst a num ber of unwholesome little islands, and only sheltered un der a miserable awning. In this situation, totally native, and weary of existence, they gave themselves up to all the irregularities that idleness necessarily produces among a set of low men, removed far from their native country, and placed under a foreign sky; there they sell into a fate of misery and were seized .eth contagious distempers, themes cesare consequences of such a situation, and their wretched fate was at length terminated in all the horrors of despair. Their ashes will for ever cry out for vengeance on the im pastors who promoted this fatal scheme, on which such great expences have been bestowed, in the sudden destruction of so many unfortunate men ; as if the devastations of war, which they were intended to repair, had not swept away a sufficient number in the course of eight years. THAT nothing might be wanting to complete this horrid tragedy, fifteen hundred men, who had escaped the mortality, were wasted away by the floods. They were distributed upon lands, where they were overflowed at the return of the rains, and every one of them perished, without leaving behind them a single mark of poficrit, or the leat trace of their memory. THE state has deeply lamented this loss, and has im peached and punished the authors of it; but how grievous is it for our country, for the subjects, for every foul that is sensible of the value of French blood, to see it thus lavished upon ruinous enterprizes, by an absurd jealousy of authority, which enjoins the most rigorous fe crecy upon all public operations. Is it not then the in-sternest
terest of the whole nation that her chiefs should be well B o K informed ? and how can they be so but from col X . letting general information? Why should project, of which the people are to be both the object and the in ferment, be concealed from them ? Can the will be com handed without the judgment, or can we inspire courage without confidence ? The only true information is to be had from public writings, where truth appears un disguised, and falsehood fears to be detected. Secret memoirs, private schemes, are commonly the work of crafty and interested men, who insinuate themselves into the cabinets of persons in administration, by dark, ob pique and indirect ways. When a prince or a minister has acted according to the opinion of the public, or of enlightened men, if he is unfortunate, he cannot on any account be blamed. But when enterprizes are under taken without the advice or against the sense of the people when events are brought on unknown to those whose lives and fortunes are exposed by them; what can this be but a secret league, a combination of a few individuals against the bulk of society ? Can it be possible that au authority hould think itself degraded by an intercourse with the citizens ? Or will men in power for ever treat the rest of mankind with so great a degree of contempt, as not even to desire that the injuries they have done them should be forgiven ? WHAT has been the consequence of that catastrophe, in which so many fulness, so many foreigners, have been sacrificed to the illusions of the French ministry with re spect to Guiana ? This unhappy climate has been abused with all the rancour with which resentment and misfortune can aggravate its real evils. It has been asserted, that colonies would never be brought to flourish there, even if those very principles of culture and administration
B 0 0 K tion by which all other colonies have prospered were to,be adopted. This opinion grounded upon the barren. ness of the soil, the excessive dampness of the climate, the prodigious swarms of ants that indes the country, and the facility the flares have of deserting from their labour. There is one truth, but there is likewise rome exaggeration in these complaints. BECAUSE the island of Cayenne is not very fertile, it cannot surely without injustice be inferred that the neigh pouring continent is altogether as rebellious to the la hours of cultivation. Those who draw this inference have gone no further than the marshy coasts of this vast country. But observers, who have penetrated into the inland parts, are quite of a different opinion, and the few experiments already made, contradict a prejudice founded merely on the first appearances the apprehensions arising from the duration of the rains are not so ill-grounded. This defect in the seasons endangers the lives of the cultivators, increases the fa fatigues of their labour, and renders their crops precarious especially that of sugar, which has hitherto been less plentiful on the continent, and inferior in quality to that which comes from the islands. But it is not to be doubted, that the inundations will in a great measure subside, when the woods are cleared away, which hare covered there vast deserts from the beginning of the world. Trees attract the rains and dews; and keep the ground damp by excluding the rays of the fun. If we remove these great vegetables, which by their deep roots and wide-extended boas, absorb and pump up all the juices of vegetation that circulate either in the inside, or in the atmosphere of the globe, nothing will remain but a moisture which will be of use to the plantations.,AT
AT present the greater part of them are overrun with B 0 0 K,XIIt. ants, and many to such a degree as sometimes to baffle the best grounded hopes. But this is an evil that has molested every new settlement in America; and which in time they have got rid of. Many do not now suffer any inconvenience from it, the rest but little. Guiana will be less and less infested with these infects, proportion as the lands are cleared. As to the negroes, if there is any danger of their run ing away, gathering in troops, and intrenching them selves in the woods, it is the tyranny of their masters that drives them to it. No doubt this inconvenience is greater on the continent than in :he islands i but the de section of there poor wretches will be prevented when ever their condition is made tolerable. The law of ne effigy, which restrains even tyrants, will prescribe that moderation in Guiana, that humanity alone hould in spire every where. THE obstacle least attended to, though the molt in superable of all, is the difficulty, nay the impossibility of undertaking any considerable plantations on the coasts of Guiana. That coast which lies to the south of Cayenne, for the space of twenty leagues, presents nothing but a bog, which is overflowed by the tides twice a month, at the new and full moon, and dried up again in the in interval between these two periods. The coast, on the north, is constantly under water, for fix months in the year, and its fertility mill therefore be very precarious. The sugar-cane dies there the first time it bears, which increases labour without augmenting the produce. In other repeat this part of the coast is also very unwholesome An easterly wind constantly drives thither all the malignant vapours which the heat of the fun draws from the swampy grounds of the southern coast.,TlEn
B O O K THE rivers of Cayenne, Aprouac, Oyapoko, Kourou,, . ' and Maroni, are not liable to the same inconveniences in,their course. Upon the river Sincmary there still are five or fix hundred men subsisting, who escaped from the gene rat disasters of the colony. They enjoy the most perfect health; their little plantations succeed to the utmo of their wiles; and the increase of their cattle is prodigious The same advantages are to be expected from the highest borders of the cher rivers; some of them are even fitter to be navigated, either in boats, or small vessels. ALL there discussions evidently shew that France ought not to give up the cultivation of Guiana. At first, the sugar will be watery and insipid, and there will be but little of it; but it has seldom been better in any grounds that have been newly cleared. Coffee, cocoa, and cot. ton are better in Guiana than in the Leeward islands. Tobacco must thrive there. Indigo, which formerly grew there in great plenty, has degenerated, but may be retrieved by fresh feeds from St. Domingo. Thearnotto is of no great value there, but the sale of it is certain. The Vanilla is the natural produce of the country; but no profit has been hitherto made of it, because the pods rot as soon as they are gathered. It would, however, be an easy matter to inquire into the method of managing the trees that bear it, and to enrich Guiana with this branch of trade large exportations of rice, wood, cattle and salt fish can hardly be expected from thence. The colony might, indeed, attempt these things, but a good market would be wanting. The only one within reach would be the French windward islands, and this could never be very considerable. Those settlements having nothing forgive
give in exchange for these commodities, the expences ofB o O K navigation would necessarily make the trade flag. BUT fill this lait connection may fail, and yet that between Guiana and the mother-country will not sussex in the leaf. The whole will depend upon the encouragement the court of Versailles may bestow upon the establishment. It is not attended with more difficulties than that of Surinam was, where more constant labour and greater means have never produced so much increase as in the islands. Yet Surinam is at this day covered with rich plantations. Why should not France put Guiana upon a footing with this colony of the Dutch ? This may he done by giving such advantages and gratuities as every slate ought to sacrifice when large tracts of lands, which may turn out to be of great utility, are to be cleared. These clearings of rude lands are real con quests over chaos for the advantage of all mankind; different from those conquests which depopulate whole pro vices, and lay them waste, in order to seize upon them; which cost the blood of two nations to enrich neither; which mutt be defended at a great expence, and covered with troops for ages, before the peaceable possession of them can be secured. Guiana requires nothing but la hours and inhabitants. How powerful the motives for encouraging both ! THIS colony may at pleasure multiply its cattle and increase its subsistence. It would be difficult to invade it, and still more to block it up; therefore it will never be conquered. 'The Leeward islands, on the contrary, already once lost, are looked upon with a wishful eye by a nation exasperated at the restitution of them. Her chagrin makes it probable she will always be disposed to recover by force of arms what he has lost by negociation. The wrci-grcunded confidence she paces
B 0 0 K in her navy, and in the flourishing condition of her nor.,X. there colonies, will perhaps soon engage her in a frelh,war, in order to retake what was given up at the last peace. Should fortune again favour the wise admini. fixation of her happy government; hould a people, en courage by victories of which they themselves reap the benefits, always get the better of a nation that fights on ly for her kings; Guiana would at least afford a great re. source, where ail such articles as custom has made necks. far, might be cultivated, and for which an enormous duty must be paid to foreigners, if the nation cannot be supplied with them from her own colonies. NOTHING has yet been done towards securing the ad vantages which this settlement presents. In January 1i69, itconffed only of ,291 free men, and 8,047 slaves. The herds did not amount to more than 1,923 head of black cattle, and r,o77 of small. The produce of the colony was even inadequate to these means, small as they were, because the works were carried on by white men without skill, and blacks without subordinate. on. Time will bring on more knowledge and better discipline. Till that happy period arrives, let us turn from Guiana, and proceed to St. Lucia. The pos THq English took possession of this island without op. ftffioD of position in the beginning of the year 1639. They lived St. Lucia for a long there peaceably for a year and a half, when a ship of their ime difpu- wn nation, which had been overtaken by a calm off ted, is at laRtceded Dominica, carried off some Caribs who were come in to the their canoes to bring them fruit. This violence occa- French signed the savages of S:. Vincent and Martinico conjoin the offended savages; and in August 1640, they all sell upon the new colony. In their fury, they murdered all that came in their way. The few who,escaped
escaped their vengeance, quitted for ever a settlement B 0 0 K,XIII. that could he in no great forwardness. . .v IN the first ages of the world, before civil societies were formed and polished, all men in general had a common right to every thing upon earth. Every one was free to take what he pleased for his own use, and even to con fume it, if it was of a perishable nature. The use that was thus made of common right supplied the place of property. The moment any one had in this manner possessed himself of any thing, another could not take it from him without injustice. It was in this point of view which can only be applied to the primitive slate of na ture, that the European nations considered America when it was first discovered. They thought nothing of the natives, and imagined they were sufficiently authorised to seize upon any country, if no other nation of our conti went was in possession of it. Such was constantly and uniformly the only public right observed in the new world, and which we have not been ashamed to avow and attempt to justify in this century, during the late hostilities FROM these principles, which the author of a philosophical history of commerce would to be ashamed approve, St. Lucia was to belong to any power that could or would people' it. The French attempted it sirs. They sent ever forty inhabitants in 1650, under the conduct of Rousseau, a brave, give, prudent man, and singularly beloved by the natives, on account of his having married one of their women. His death, which happened four years after, destroyed all the good he had begun to do. Three of his successors were murdered by the discontented Caribs, who were dissatisfied with their behaviour to them and the colony was but in a drooping condition,
B OO Ktion, when it was taken in 1664 by the English, who , evacuated it in 1666.,THEY were scarce none, when the French appeared again on the sand. Whatever was the cause, they had not increased their number much, when the enemy that had driven them out before, again forced them to quit their habitations twenty years after. Some, instead of evacuating the island, took refuge in the woods. As soon as the conquerors, who had made only a tempo mary invasion, were gone, they resumed their labours; but only for a short time. The war, which on after raged in Europe, made them apprehensive that they might fall a prey to the first privateer that should take a fancy to come and plunder them, they therefore removed in search of quiet, to other French settlements, where they might hope for better protection. There was then no regular culture or colony in St. Lucia. It was only frequented by the inhabitants of Martinico, who came thither to cut wood, and to build canoes, and who had considerable docks on the island. SOME soldiers and sailors having deserted thither after the peace of Utrecht, Marshal d'Eftrees petitioned for a grant of the island. No sooner was it obtained in 1718, but he sent over a commandant, troops, cannon and in habitants. This gave umbrage to the court of London, which had a kind of claim to this island, from prior set tient, as that of Versailles had, from almost uninterrupted pression. Their complaints determined the French ministry to order that things should be put into.the same condition they were in before the grant. Whether this compliance did not appear sufficient to the English, or whether it gave them room to think they might venture upon any thing, they themselves gave St. Lucia in 1722 to the duke of Montagu, who sent to take poflcfeicn of,it.
it. This clashing interests occasioned some disturbance B O O K between the two courts; which was fettled however in XII. 17i3 by an agreement made, that till the receive claims hould be finally adjusted, the island should be evacuated by both nations, but that both Should wood and water there. THIS precarious agreement furnished an opportunity for private interest to ad. The English no longer molested the French in the enjoyment of their habitations; but employ ed them as a channel to gift them in carrying on with richer colonies, smuggling connexions, which the subjects of both governments thought equally advantageous to them. This trade has continued more or less brisk till the treaty of 1763, which secured to France the long contested pro party of St. Lucia. THE first use which the court of Versailles proposed to What be-came of St. make of her acquisition, was to fix a magazine there. It Lucia in had been the general opinion fr one years past, that te hands,of the the wood and cattle of North-america was absolutely ne French. cesare for there southern colonies. It was found inconvenient to carry them directly thither, and St. Lucia was pitched upon as a very proper place for the exchange of there commodities against the molasses of Martinico and Gaudalupe. Experience soon shewed that this scheme was impracticable. To bring it to bear, the English mush either deposit their cargoes in store-houses, or keep them on board, or sell them to traders fettled on the island: three things equally impossible. THESE sailors will never consent to lore fight of their cattle, as the expences they would incur for having them taken care of, for their food, or from accidents, would infallibly ruin them. - Neither will they pay for warehouses for their wood, which is too cheap and too bulky VOL. ll. Y a comb
0 0 K a commodity to be worth the charge of flore-room. Nor,,can it be expected that they should quietly fit on board their ships, waiting till fore traders should come from the French islands to deal with them: the nature of their trade will no: admit of such delays. The only remaining w-ay of managing this, would be by means of traders who might fettle on the island as brokers ; but the profit they muff necessarily make, would enhance the price of the goods so much, that it would be impossible to carry on the trade through their channel. THE difficulties re not cis on the side of the owners of rr.olaes, than on that of the dealers in northern com modifies. Accustomed to sell their spirit at thirty-five or thirty-fix livres (r) a barrel, they would never content to an abatement of two-iffths, which must be allowed for carriage, emptying out, and commission. If the English are obliged to ay n higher price for the molasses, they must of course raise that of their own commo cities, and this advance villi make them too dear for the ccn funer.,THE French ministry, undeceived as to their first no tion, without formally giving it up, have. turned their thoughts to the cultivation of St. Lucia. In 1763, they sent over at a great expence, and with unnecessary pa rade, seven or eight hundred men, whose unhappy fate ii more a matter of pity than surprize. Under the tropics, the best clarified colonies always destroy one third of the soldiers that are sent thither, though they ale healthy stout men, and find good accommodations: it is no wonder then, that a set of miserable wretches, picked up from the dunghills of Europe, and exposed to all the hardships of indigence, and all the horrors of dcfpair,,fr.c.ul. (r) About IS. IHJ,
should most of them perish in an uncultivated and un B 0 0 K,XIII. wholesome island. , THE advantage of peopling this colony was reserved to the neighbouring settlements. Some Frenchmen, who had sold, upon very profitable terms to themselves, their plantations at the Granades to the English, brought part of their capital to St. Lucia. Several planters from St. Vincent, incensed at being obliged to buy lands which the) themselves had been at incredible pains to clear and fertilize, took the same course. Martini also furnished rome inhabitants, whole positions were either not fLlfiicntly fertile, or too much confined, and traders who devoted part of their flock to husbandry Each of these has obtained the free grant of a spot of land proportioned to his powers. Those whose means were small, have confined themselves to such labours as required no great advances. Thos who were richer have fared to greater undertakings. There are already nine parishes on the colony, eight to leeward, and only one to windward. This preference given to one part of the island, is not for the fake of a better soil, but for the conveniency of the shipping. In time, that part that was neglected at sirs, will likewise be inhabited, as there are bays continually discovered, in which canoes may put in, and receive all kinds of com modifies on board. A road which goes all round the illud, and two others that cross it from east to weft, are very convenient for carrying the produce of the plantations to the landing places. In proccs of time, and with some expence, these roads will be brought to a much greater degree of perfection than it was possible they should be at si; si, without running into expences too burdienlfnie for a Ittlcmcnt in its infant slate, The i;tcrri-n:ions occasion by the making these 2 roads,
B o o K roads, have unavoidably retarded the culture of the lands, XIII. and excited much murmuring-but the colonists now be-gin to bless the wise and ready hand that has orderedtand conducted this work for their benefit.,ON the first of January, 1772, the population of the white people in the island amounted to 2018 fouls, men, women, and children ; that of the blacks to 663 freemen, and 12,795 slaves. The cattle confided of 928 mules or horses, 2070 head of horned cattle, and 3184 sheep or goats. There were thirty-eight sugar-plantations, which occupied 978 pieces of land ; 5,395,889 coffee-times; 1,32 ,cc cocoa plants ; and 367 plots of cotton. They were divided into seven hundred and fix dwelling places. The present produce is four millions of livres (s); a re venue which for tome time to come must increase one eighth every year.,A general prejudice prevailed in there islands against St. Lucia. It was said, that nature had refused it every advantage nccclitry to form a colony of any importance. In the opinion of the public, its dry and stony soil could never pay the expence of manuring. The inclemency of the climate would infallibly deStroy every man, who, from a greedy desire of enriching himself, or who driven by despair, should be bold enough to fettle there. Thes, notions were universally received successful experience must at length undeceive th most prejudiced person. The soil of St. Lucia is not bad one even by the sea side, and grows better the further we advance up the country. The whole of the allan. may be cultivated with success, except rome high an craggy mountains, which bear evident marks of old vol canoes. In one deep valley there are still eight or tt ponds, the water of which boils up in a most dreads,maann
manner, and retains some of its heat at the distance of fix B 0 0 K thousand t ses from its reservoirs. There are not indeed xttI many extensive. plains on the island, but several small ones, where the growth of sugar may be carried to fifteen millions weight. The shape of the island, which is long and narrow, will make the carriage easy, wherever the canes are planted. THE air in the inland parts of St. Lucia, is the same as it was in all the other islands before they were inhabited, foul and unwholesome at first; but les noxious as the woods are cleared, and the ground laid open. The iron sone part of the sea-coast is more unhealthy. On the leeward side the lands receive some small rivers, which springing from the foot of the mountains, have not a ope sufficient to wash down the sands with which the influx of the ocean choaks up their mouths. Stopped by this insurmountable barrier, they spread into unwholesome morasses upon the neighbouring grounds. So obvious a reason had been sufficient to drive away the few Caribs who were found upon the island when it was first discovered. The French, driven into the new world by a more powerful motive than even self-preservation, have been less careful than the savages. It is in this very spot that they have chiefly fixed their plantations. They will sooner or later be punished for their blind ra graciousness, unless they erect dikes, and dig canals, to drain off the waters. The health they enjoy along the rivers, where the sips are careened, and those in which the rain waters are college, which fall into deeper bays, seems to indicate that this expedient would succeed. THE character and abilities of the Earl of Ennery, the founder of this colony, authorize us to affirm, that when this island, which is about forty-five leagues in circum terence, has attained the degree of cultivation it is capa-,Y 3 able
B 0 0 K able of, it may employ fifty thousand aves, and furnish Xiii I trade with commodities to the amount of ten millions (t),yearly. This period of prosperity cannot even be far off, as the aivity of the planters is released from those fetters which have retarded their progress every where else. Fifty men, appointed t maintain public order, are all the troops they have at St. Lucia. They pay no taxes, di recital nor indirectly. Ships of all nations are admitted into their roads, and pay nothing at coming in or going out. Every one is free to bring thither what goods he can sell at the cheaper: rate, and to carry away such commodities as will fetch the best price. Ever incec Eur pe has acquired positions in America, none has met with more indulgence. Such singular favour must undoubtedly have 3 period, and this island, like all the others, wil one car be brought under the yoke of reflrirt;e laws. But a few years peace and feedcm will enable hei to bear this burden. Science Before this burden is imposed, the mother country will oraecrea take care to secure to herself the produce of an ifl.lld itt's *t' which she has put into a flourishing condition. To keep of St. Lu profusion of it, it : ili be sufficient to defend the Carcen-,a. ae harbour. TH.:s famous harbour unites many advantages. It has good four.dins every hele, with an excellent bottom. Nature has provided it with three careening places, which hake a wharf needless, and on!, require the capifcrn to heave the (hip down on the shore. Thirty (hips of the line might ride fascly there, and be sheltered from the hurricanes without the trouble of mooring. The boats of that country, which have lain there for a long while, hae never been injured b the worms ; it is no:, however, ex petted that this ad:r'.ntag will continue, whatever may be,(**):?~~ 4~3-,5°o.lt
the immediate cafe of it. The winds are always fa-B O O K favourable for going out; and the largest squadron would be cleared out in leis than an hour. So favourable a situation is able not only to defend all the national possessions, but also to threaten those of the enemy throughout America. The naval forces of England cannot cover all parts. The smallest squadron sent out from S. Lucia, would in a few days invade those co ionics, which, being least exposed, would think them selves quire secure. The only way to prevent mischief from that quarter, would be to block up the Careenagz; and even then, the purport of so costly and tiresome a cruize might be defeated, by a man who should be daring enough to undertake all that can be achieved at sea. THIS harbour is subjea to the inconvenience exposing every hip that comes within fight; nd has never ap feared worthy the attention of the Bitilh nation, though too powerful and too enlightened not to consider, that chips are to protect the roads, and not the roads the ships. With regard to France, this harbour affords the greatest maritime defence, a position that will not allow a ship under fail to enter. She mist be warped for a con miserable space before he can get into it. There is no plying to windward between the two points. The found kings increasing suddenly near the land from twenty-five to a hundred fathom, wil! not permit the assailants to come to an anchor. Only one ship can come in at a time, and flie would be exposed to the fire of three mnafl:d bat series, in front and on both sides. A ship that would attack the harbour, would be under a necessity of landing at Shoque-bay, a lore league long, which is only parted from the Careenae- by the points 4 called
B O Called Vigie, which forms this bay. Once matter of the r . Vigie, the enemy would fink every ship in the harbour,,or least compel them to bring to; and that without any loss on their side, because this peninsula, though com handed by a citadel, built on the other side of the har your, would cover the assailants by its own back. They would only have occasion for mortars, and neither fire a single gun, nor endanger the life of one man.,IF shutting up the entrance of the harbour againftthe enemy were sufficing, twould be needless to fortify Vigie. The enemy might be kept out without this precaution; but the hips of our own nation nuit be protected. It is necessary that a small squadron should be able to set the English forces at defiance ; compel them to block the place up; take advantage of their absence or of some error they might fall into; all which cannot be effected without fortify, ing the top of the peninsula. It must be considered, that by thus multiplying the pints of defence, a greater number of men will be wanted; but if there are any ships in the harbour, their sailors and gunners may be employed in defending the Vigie, which they would do with the greater alacrity, as on this would depend the safety of the squadron If there are no vessels in the harbour, the Vigie will be left defenceless, for the following reason. Os, the other inde of the harbour there is an eminence, called the i fortunate Morne. The fiat on the top offers one of those favourable situations that are seldom to be met with, for erecting a citadel, wench would require no less a force to attack it, than the bet fortified place in Europe. 'I his fortification, the pian of which is already laid, and will certainly one dey be put in execution, will have the ad vantage of defending the Carnage bay on all sides, of commanding-ll the eminences that surround it, and of raking it impocilbc fr the enemy to enter; of fccuring,llie
the town which is to be built on the back of the mount o o K,XII. tain, in short, of hindering the assailants from penes treating into the stand, even if they had actually landed at Shoque, and made themselves masters of Vigie. Further discussions on the means of preserving St. Lu cia must be left to the professors of the art. Let us now fix the attention of the reader on Martinico. THIS island is sixteen leagues in length, and forty-five The in circumference, leaving out the capes, which sometimes French t-,tie at Mar extend two or three leagues into the sea. It is very un tinicoupon even, and interfered in all parts by a number of hillocks, 'ethical which are mostly of a conical form. Three mountainsrihs. rise above these lesser eminences. The highest bears the indelible marks of a volcano. The Woods with which this is covered, continually attract the clouds, which occasions noxious damps, and contributes to make it horrid and inaccessible, whilst the two others are in mot parts cultivated. From these mountains, but chiefly from the first, issue the many springs that water the island. These waters, which flow in gentle firearms, are changed into torrents on the slightest Storm. Their qua city partakes of the nature of the soil they traverse; in some places they are excellent, in others so bad, that the inhabitants are obliged to drink the water they have col lead in the rainy season. DENAMBUC, who had went to reconnoitre Martinico, failed from St. Christopher's in 1635 to fettle his nation there for he would not have it peopled from Europe. He foresaw that men, tired with the fatigue of a long voyage, would for the molt part perish on after their arrival, either from the climate, or from the hardships incident to most emigrations. The ole founders of this lew colony were a hundred men who had long lived in lis government of St. Christopher's. They were brave,,active,
3 00 Kaaive, inured to labour and fatigues; skillful in tilling X 1. the ground and erecting habitations; abundantly provided with potatoes plants and all necessary feeds they completed their first settlement very quietly. The natives, intimidated by the fire-arms, or seduced by fair promises, gave up to the French the western and southern parts of the island, and retired to the other. This tranquillity was of short duration. The Caribs, when they saw these enterprising strangers daily in creasing, were convinced that their ruin was fine it. able, unless they could extirpate them; and they therefore called in the savages of the neighbouring island to their assistance. They sell jointly upon a little fort that had been accidentally ercced ; but they met with such a warm reception, that they thought proper to retreat, ]caving seven or eight hundred of their bea warriors dead upon the spot. After this check they disappeared for a long while, and when they came back, it was with presents and penitent species. They were received in a friendly manner, and the reconciliation was sealed with some pots of brandy that were given them to drink. THE labours had been carried on with difficulty till this period. The fear of a surprise obliged the colonists of three different habita-ions to meet every night in that which was in the center, and which was always kept in a state es defence. There they slept secure, guarded by their dogs and a sentinel. In the day time no one ventured out without his gun, and a brace of pistols at his girdle. These precautions were needless when the two nations came to be on friendly terms. But the one whose friendship and favour had been courted, took fch undue advantages of her superiority, to extend her usurpations that fne on rekindled a half extinguished ha red in the breast of the other. The savages, whose,man-
manner of life requires a aft extent of land, fining O o K,XIII. themselves daily more straightened, had recourse to stratagem to weaken an enemy whom they durst not attack by force. They separated into small bands, way-layed the French, who frequented the woods, waited till the portman had fired his piece, and before he had time to load it again, ruffed upon him and destroyed him. Twenty men had been thus murdered, before any one was able to account for their disappearance. As on as the circumstance was found out, the aggressors were pur fuel and beaten, their carbets burnt, their wives and children massacred, and those few that escaped the car nage, fled from lartinico, and never appeared there after. THE French, by this retreat, now become sole masters of the island, lived quietly upon those spots which best suited their plantations. They were then divided into two classes. The first confined of such as had paid their pillage to America: and these were called inhabitants. The government distributed lands to them, which be came their absolute property upon paying a yearly tribute. They were obliged to keep watch, by turns, and to contribute in proportion to their abilities towards the necessary expences for the public welfare and safety. These had under their command a multitude of disorderly people brought over from Europe at their cxpenc whom they called, engages, or, bond linen. This engagement was a kind of slavery for 'he term of three years. When their time was expired, the boj;dfien, by recovering their liberty, became the equals of those whom they had served. THEY all confined themselves at first to the culture of tobacco and cotton; to which was soon added that of the ariosto and indigo. The culture of sugar was not begun till about the year cc. Benjamin Dakota, one of those,Jews
B O K Jews who are beholden for their industry to that very op XIII. pression which ter nation is new fallen under, after having exercised it upon others, planted ime cocoa trees ten years after. His example was not followed till 1684, when the chocolate grew more common in France. Cocoa then became the principal dependence of the colonists who 'red net a iu.cicnt fund to undertake sugar planta tions. One of those calamities which the seasons bring on, sometimes upon men and sometimes upon plants, destroyed all the cocoa trees in 1718. This spread a ge neral consternation among the inhabitants of Marinicc. The coffee tree was then held out to them as a plank to mariners after a shipwreck. THE French ministry had received as a present from the Dutch two of these trees, which were carefully preserved in the royal garden of plants. Two hoots were taken from these. Mr. Defclieux, who was intrusted to car rv them over to Mlartiico, happened to be on board a ship which sell short of water. He hard with his young trees the portion that was allotted him for his own drink ing; znd by this generous sacrifice, saved the precious trull that had been put into his hands. His magnanimity was rewarded. The cos-ee throve at an amazing rate, end this virtuous patriot enjo-,.s with a heart-felt satisfaction the uncommon felicity of having as it were saved an important colon', and enriched it with a fresh branch of industry. ixDErE3:.T of this resource, Martinico was possessed of those natural advantages, which eyed to promise a ,foeedv and rear fortune. Of all the French settlements, it is the most happily situated, with regard to the winds that prevail in those fas. Its harbours possess the inestimable advantage of affording a certain shelter from the hurricanes which annoy these latitudes. Its fituat:on,has ing
having made it the feat of government, it has obtained B O O K mot favours, and enjoyed the ablest and most upright administration of them all. The enemy has constantly respected the valour of its inhabitants, and has seldom at tacked it without having cause to repent. Its domestic peace has never been disturbed, not even in 1717, when urged by a general discontent, the inhabitants ventured, boldly, indeed, but prudently, to send back to France a Governor and an Intendant, who oppressed the people under their despotic and rapaciousness. The order, tranquility and harmony, which they found means to preserve in those times of anarchy, were a proof that they were influenced rather by their aversion from tyranny, than by their impatience of authority; and served in lome measure tojuflify to the mother-country, a ep, which in itself might be con filtered as irregular, and contrary to the established principles Notwithstanding all thclf advantages, Martinico, though in greater forwardness than the other French colo nies, had made but little progress at the end of the las century. In 1700, they had but 6597 white men in all. The savages, mulattoes and free negroes, men, women and children, amounted to no more than 507. The number of slaves was but 14566. All there together, made a population of 21,640 persons. The whole of the cattle was 3,668 horses or mules, and 9,217 head of horned cattle. They grew a great quantity of cocoa, tobacco and cotton, and had nine indigo houses, and ,one hundred and eighty-three small sugar plantations.,ON the cessation of the long and bloody wars, which ProTpriety,ofMartini- had ravaged all the continents, and been carried on upon o. Causes all the seas of the world, and when France had resin-of it. quashed her projects of conquest, and those principles of administration, by which he had been so long milled, Martinico emerged from that languid state in which all,these
B O O K there calamities had kept her, and on rose to a high XIII. ,pitch of prosperity. She became the mart for all the windward national settlements. It was in her ports that the neighbouring islands sold their produce, and bought the commodities of the mother-country. The French navigators loaded and unloaded their hips no where else. Martinico was famous all over Europe. She was the objet of peculation, as a planter, as an agent to the other colonies, as a trader with Spanifh and North Americans a planter, he possessed in 736, 447 sugar-works; 1 ,953,232 coffee trees; 193,S7o of cocoa; 2,o68,480 of cotton; j3,4co of tobacco; 6,750 of ariosto. Her provision of food confined of 4,806,142 banana trees; 34,4S3,o0o trenches of cassava; and 247 plots of po toes and yams. She had population of 72,co blacks, men, women and children. Their labour had improved her plantations to the highest pitch that was confident with the consumption then made in Europe of American productions, and she exported annually to the amount of sixteen millions of livres.ru) THE connexions of Martinico with the other islands intitled her to the profits of commission and the charges of transport, as he alone was in possession of carriages. This profit might be rated at the tenth of the produce, and the sum total muff amount to 17 or 18 millions of livres.(w) This standing debt, seldom called in, as left them for the improvement of their plantations. It was increased by advances in money, slaves, and other necessary articles. Martinico thus becoming more and more a creditor to the other islands, kept them in a con fiant dependence, but without injuring them. They allen 7oo,cco. (.':) 0n an avcage about i76,,jsC:
enriched themselves by her assistance, and their profit was B O O I a benefit to her. HER connections with Cape Breton, with Canada, and with Louisiana, procured her a market for her ordinary sugars, her inferior coffee, her molasses and rum, which would not sell in France. They gave her in exchange, fin-fish, dried vegetables, deals and one flour. In her clandestine trade on the coasts of Spanish America, con sifting wholly of goods manufactured by the nation, he was well paid for the risques which the French merchants did not chuse to run. This traffic, les important than the former as to its object, was much more lucrative in its effet. It commonly brought in a profit of ninety per cent, upon the value of four millions of livres,(x) yearly sent to the Caraccas, or the neighbouring co ionics. So many prosperous operations had brought immense sums into Martinico. Eighteen millions of livres() were constantly circulated there with amazing rapidity. This is, perhaps, the only country in the world where the balance has ever been such, as to make it a matter of indifference to them whether they dealt in minerals or commodities. HER extensive trade annually brought into her ports two hundred ships from France, fourteen or fifteen fitted out by the mother-country for the coast of Guinea, sixty from Canada, ten or twelve from the islands of Margaret and Trinidad; besides the English and Dutch hips that flipped in to run goods. The private navigation from the island to the northern colonies, to the Spanish continent, and to the windward islands, employed a hun died and thirty vessels from twenty to seventy tons bur then, manned with fix hcn'drcd European sailors cf a!!,l 0atio:j,, (x) 17,oo, (c. 8cooi,
B O 0 K nations, and fifteen hundred slaves long inured to the seas lervice.,AT fish, the hips that frequented Martinico, used to land in those parts where the plantations lay. This practice, seemingly the most natural, was liable to great inconveniences. The north and north-easterly winds, which blow upon part of the coasts, keep the sea in a confidant and violent agitation. Though there are many good roads, they are either at a considerable distance from each other, or from most of the habitations. The sloops destined to coast along this interval, were frequently forced by the weather to sand still, or to take in but half their lading. These crosses retarded the load ing and unloading of the hip; and the consequence of these delays was, a waste of the crew, and an increase of expence to the buyer and feller. COMMERCE, which must always reckon among its greatest advantages, that of procuring a quick return, could not but be impeded by another inconvenience, which was the necessity the trader lay under, even in the best latitudes, of disposing of his cargo in small parcels. If some industrious man undertook to save him that trouble, this enhanced the price of the goods to the co lifts. The merchant's profit is to be rated in proportion to the quantity he fells. The more he fells, the more he can afford to abate of the profit which another must make who fells less. A worse inconvenience than either of these was, that some places were overstocked with some forts of Euro pean goods, whilst others were in want of them. The owners of the hips were equally at a loss to take in a proper lading. Most places did not afford all forts of commodities, nor every species of the same commodity. This deficiency obliged them to touch at several places, or,to
to carry away too much or too little of what was fit for B 0 0 K,XIII. the port where he was to unload. , TiE 'ships themselves fierce many inconveniences. Several wanted creeping, and mor of them required free repair. The proper assistance on these (> affords was not to be found in the roads that were but !little frequented where workmen did not care to fettle, for fear of not getting employment enough. They were there fore obliged to go and refit in fine particular harbours, and then return to take in their lading at the place where they had made their f.:ie. These short voyages back ward and forward took up at leant three or four months. THESE and many more inconveniences made i; very desireable to some of the inhabitants and to all the na visitors to cfiab;ifh a magazine, where the colonies and the mother-country might end their rcfpeaivc mat terms of exchange. Nature seemed to point out Fort Royal as a fit place for this purpose'. Its harbour was one of the best in all the windward islands, and so famed for its safety, that when it was open to the Dutch sefels, they had orders from the republic to helter there in June, July and August, from the hurricanes which are so frequent and so solent in those latitudes. The lands of the Lamenting are distant but a league, and re the most fertile and richest of all the colony. The numerous rivers which water this fruitful country, convey loaded canoes almost as fr as theirs mouths in the fta. The protection of the fortifications secured the peaceable enjoyment of so many advantage, which, lho.'verr, were balanced by a swampy and unwholesome soil. Bc:?cs, this capital of Martinico was the refuse of-te men of war, which branch of the navy has sways oppressed the merchant en n Un this acccui:t, Fci: Ro-sal &.ts 'Vo. III. Z a ;i
B 0 0 K an improper place to become the center of business, .Nit. .which was therefore turned to St. Peter's.,THIS little town, which, notwithstanding the fires that have reduced it four times to ashes, ill contains i748 houses, is situated on the western coast 6f the island in a bay or inlet which is almost circular. One part of it is built on the strand along the sea-side; which is called the anchorage; and is the place for the ships and warehouses. The other part of the town stands upon a low hill: it is called the Fort, from a small fortification that was built there in 1665, to check the editions of the inhabitants against the tyranny of monopoly; but it now serves to protect the road from foreign enemies. These two parts of the town are separated by a rivulet or fordable; river. THE anchorage islands at the foot of a pretty high and perpendicular hill. Shut up as it were by this hill, which intercepts the easterly winds, the most con tant and most salubrious in three parts; exposed, with out ore refreshing breeze, to the scorching beams oi the fun, reflected from the hill, from the sea, and the black sand on the beach; this place is extremely hot, and always unwholesome. Besides, there is no harbour, and the ships, which cannot winter safely upon this coal, are obliged to take shelter at Fort Royal. But these disadvantages are compensated by the conveniency of th: road of St. Peter's, for loading and unloading of goods and by its situation, which is such, that ships can free! go in and out at all times, and with all winds. THIS village was the first that was built, peopled, an. cultivated on theifland. Its, however, not o muchor account of its antiquity as of its convenience, that it i become the center of communication between the colon: and the mother country. At first, St. Peter's was t-,sic;
storehouse for the commodities of Come districts, which B o O K,xIII. lay along such dreary and tempestuous coasts, that no ., ship could ever get at them, so that the inhabitants could carry on no trade without removing elsewhere. The agents for these colonists in those early times, were no other than the makers of small vessels, who having made them selves known by continually failing about the island, were enticed by the prospect ofgain, tofix upon a fettled place for thei: residence. Honesty was the only support of this inter course: mois of these agents could not read. None of them kept any books or journals. They had a trunk, in which they kept a separate bag for each person whose business they transact. Into this bag they put the produce of the sales, and took out what money they wanted for the purchases. When the bag was empty, the commission was at an end. This confidence, which must appear fa bulbous in our days of degeneracy and dishonesty, was yet common at the beginning of this century. There are some persons still living, who have carried on this trade, where the employer had no other security for the fidelity of his agent, but the benefit resulting from it. THESE plain men were filcccflivcly replaced by more enlightened persons from Europe. Some had gone over to the colony, when it was taken out of the hands of the elusive companies. Their number increased as the commodities multiplied; and they themselves contributed greatly to the extending of the plantations by the loans they advanced to the planters, whose labours had till then gone on but slowly for want of filch help. This conduct made them the necessary agents for their debtors in the colony, as they were already for their employers at home. Even the colonial who owed them nothing was in tome measure dependent on them, as ha r.iiht possibly hereafter stand in need of their afilancc. Suppose his crops 2 hould
B o O K should fail or be retarded, a plantation of sugar-canes be X.I . seton fire, or a mill blown down : if shipbuilding hould fall mortality carry off his cattle or his slaves; or that every thing sould be destroyed by drought heavy rains; where could he find the means of supporting himself during these calamities, or of repairing the loss occasioned by them ? These means are in twenty different hands. f only one refuses his assurance, the distress muff necessarily increase. These considerations induced such as had not yet borrowed money, to trust the agents of St. Peter's with their concerns, in order to secure a resource in times of difrefs.,THE few rich inhabitants, whole fortunes seemed to place them above these wants, were in a manner corn pellet to apply to this factory. The trading captains, finding a port vhcre they could conclude their business to the best advantage, without firing out of their ware. houses, or even out of their snips, forsook Fort Roya, Trinity Fort, and all the other places where an arbitrary) price was put upon the commodities, and where the pay ments were flow and uncertain. By this revolution the colonists being confined to their works, which require their constant presence and daily attendance, could rt longer go out to dispose of their produce. They ween therefore obliged to intrust it to able men, who being eat tied at the only frequented sea-port, were at hand to fez the most favourable opportunities for buying and selling an inestimable advantage this, in a country there trap is continually fluctuating. Guadalupe and Granada ful lowed this example, induced by the same motives. THE war of 1744 put a stop to this prosperity; no that the fault was in Martinico itself. Its navy constant! exercised and accustomed to the exertions requisite for car ring on a contraband trade, was ready trained up for action
tion. In less than fix months, forty privateers, fitted out B O O K at St. Peter's, spread themselves about the latitudes of the Leeward islands. They signalised themselves in a manner worthy of the ancient free-brothers. They were constantly returning in triumph and laden with an immense booty. Yet in the midst of these success, an entire flop was put to the navigation of the colon), both to the Spanish coast and to Canada, and they were constantly even disturbed on their own coasts. The few ships that came from France to make up their goods, the risques they ran, sold for very dear, and bought at a very low price. The produce being thus under rated, thelands were but poorly cultivated, the works neglected and slaves starved. Every thing was in a languid state, and falling to decay. The peace at last restored the freedom of trade, and with it, the hopes of recovering the ancient prosperity of the island. The event did net answer the pains that were taken to attain it. NOT two years after the c action of hofliics, theDecay of colony lost the contraband trade fie carried on with the Martinico,,and the American Spaniards. This revolution was not owingcaufc. to the vigilance of the guards-colas. As it is more the interest of the traders to dare them, than thei-s to de send themselves ; the former are apt to despise men who are poorly paid to protect such rights, or enforce such pro libations as are oftentimes unjust. The ;substituting regier- hips to fleets was the cause that confined the attempts of the smugglers within very narrow limits. In the new system, the number of ships was undetermined, and the time of their arrival uncertain; which occasioned a variation in the price of goods, unknown before. From that time the smuggler, who only engaged in this trade from the certainty of a fixt and constant profit, would no longer pursue it when it did not secure an equivalent to the risques he ran.,Z 3 BUT
B O o K BUT this loss was not so sensibly felt by the colony, as XIIi. the hardships brought upon them by the mother countryman unskilful administration clogged the reciprocal and necessary connexion between the hands and North-ames rica, with so many formalities, that in 1755 Martinico sent but four vessels to Canada. The direction of the colonies, now fallen into the hands of greedy and ignorant clerks, was oonl degraded, sank into contempt, and was prostituted :sto vcna:tj. BUT tilt trade c France was not yet asserted ly the decay of Martimlco. Our countrymen found traders in the roa ' f St. l'etir's, who paid them well for their car goes, and Cit their f ,.i , h.r.l' with expedition and rich" laden ; and they never i::qui:cj whether it was from this or the other c' es thl::th confu.ni;iion and produce arose. Even the negroes sent th iter fund very well ; but few re maiihd there. Tie c i:-f p-rt were colt to the Grenades, to Guadalupe, and been t te Neutral iandx, which, notwithstanding the unlimited freedom they cnjo'cd, pre ferret the fiavee brought by the French, to those which the English offered, on seemingly better terms. They vwcr convinced fi'-m long experience, that the choice negroes, who c;.' tree most, enriched their lands, while! the plantations did not thrive in the hands of the negroes bought at a lower price. But these profits of the mother country were foreign and rather hurtful to Mar tito. SHE had not yet repaired her offer during the each, rcr paid off the deb's which a ;ries of calamities hed oligcd her to contract ; when war, the greatest of all evils, broke ot afresh. it . as a scries of nmiisurtunes for France, which, after repeated strokes, and IlcOis, made Marine f ;; into the hands of the Engiifil. I: was retired in jy 1763, sixteen months after it h l,bc:n
been conquered; outstrips all the scenery means of prof B 0 0 K,XIIT. purity, that had raised it to so great a degree of prosperity. For tome 'yea! pAil, the contraband trade carried on to the Spanifl coauli was Almost entirely loi,. Tie ceflio of Cana da had cut c,offali hopes of once mor, opening a communication which had on;, been interrupted b tralfr.nt errors. The productions of the Grenades, Stringent, and dominica which were now become Brlnii( dominions, could no longer be brought into their harbours ; and a nre. regulation of the mother country, which f d her holding ally intercourse wit' Guadalupe, left her no hops som that quarter. THE colony thus script, and left to itself, neverthe Present less contained, at the last survey, which was taken on the state o,Martinico. first of January, 1770, in the compass of twenty-eight parishes, i2,150 white people of all ages and of both foxes; 18 4 free blacks or mulattos; 70,553 aves ; and 443 fugitive negroes. The whole population of the island amounted to 84,817 fouls. The number of births in 1766, was in the proportion of one in thirty amongst the white people, and of one in twenty-five anongi the blacks. From this observation, if it were constant, it Should seem that the chine of America is much more favourable to the propagation of the Aspic. ns than of the Europeans ; since the former multiply sill more in the la hours and hardships of slavery, than the latter in the midst of plenty and freedoms. The consequence must be, that in process of time the increase of blacks in Amcica will surpass that of the white men ; and, p r-h.ips. at laltavenisg this race of victims on the descendents of the c:;prefibrs. THE cattle of the colony consists of S8?3 horses or mules; 12,376 head of horned cattle; 975 hogs; and 13,544 sheep or goats.,Z 4 THEIR
B O O THEIR provisions are, 17,930,596 trenches of cassava, * I . 3 ,59,048 banana trees; and 406 squares and a half seams and potatoes their plantations contain i1,444 squares of land, planted with sugar; 6,638,757 coffee-trees; 871,c43cocoa- trees; ,764,o07 cotton plants 59,966 trees of cassia, and sixty-one of arlitto.,HER meadows or savannahs, take up 10,072 squares of land ; there are 11,966 in wood; and 8448 uncultivated or forsaken the plantations which produce coffee, cotton, cocoa, znd other things o lei's importance, are 515 in num ber. There arc bu: 2i fr far. They employ 116 water-mills, twelve wnnd-r.i;!s, and 4 turret by open. ]before the hurrlc-a of the 13'!t of August, 1766, there vere 302 frail abdication, and fifteen sugar-works rnore.,IN 1769 France imported from Martinico, upon two hundred and two trading veFlci, 177,1 6 quintals of fine sugar, and 12,570 quintals of raw sugar; 68,518 quin ta-s of coffee; 11,731 quintals of cocoa ; 6c48 quintals cf Cotton; 251S quintals of cassia 733 casks of rum; 3-77 casks of-rep; 150 pounds of indigo; 2147 pounds of preferred fruits; forty-seven pounds of choco ;ate; 22 pounds of raf-ed tobacco; 494 pounds of rope-yarn; 234 chefs of liqueurs; 234 barrels of mnor-fes; &c. c. 451 quintals of wood for dint,; znd 2,ro8 hides in the hair. All these production together have been bought in the ciory itl'c:f, for-2,265,S62 livres fourteen fols (). It is true, that the colony has received from the mother country to the amount of 13,44 ,46 livres (a) of goods; but part of these have been silent '.v-a) to the Spanifl coasts, and,ano:'ler (-) 5;6,631. 5'. i-:. (a) S°,41:I. 16j. 6d.
another part has been conveyed to the English fettle-B O O K ments. ALL those who from instant or duty wish well to the in terest of their country, cannot see without regret that so excellent a colony as Martinico, should furi;ifi so small a quantity of commodities, part of which even is brought from other places. It is well known, indeed, that the center of the island, full of horrid rocks, is unfit for the culture of sugar, coffee, or cotton; that too much moisture would be hurtful to these productions; and that, hould they succeed, the charges of carriage across mountains and precipices ould absorb the profits of the crops. But in this large space, meadows would turn to very good ac count. The soil is excellent for parurc, and only wants the attention of government to furnish the inhabitants with the necessity increase of cattle, both for labour and food. There arc other spits on the ind, v here the soil is ungrateful. Sonic are alternately spoilt by drought and rain, fie are marshy, and aloft always overflown by the ea. There are others where nothing will gros except those aquatic plants known by the general name of mangroves, but of various species, and very unlike each other. In other parts, the ground is so stony, that it cannot be improved by labour, or so much exhausted, that it is not worth manuring. To thes inconveniences, which aris from the nature's things, must be added a terrible plague it has experienced from the ants ; a species of infects formerly unknown in America. Some time ago, they ravaged Barbadoes so dread fully, that it was a matter of deliberation, whether that island formerly so flourishing, should not be evacuated. This calamity had greatly diminished there; hen in 1763 it began to be felt at Martinico. The mischief three in fess have done to several parts of the colony is inexpressible.
B o o K si!be. All the useful vegetables have been destroyed; the XIII. Xl , quadrupeds have been unable to subsist there; the largeil,trees have been infested in such a manner that even the Scat delicate birds would not fix upon them. It was not without the greatest precautions that the children were preferred from bing devoured; that the women could be supported till the ,' ly in; or that the men could subsist. It .as apprehended that this numberless and de pouring race would spread all over Martinico. Happily this formidable ra age has been dropped in its beginning, and ;seems very sensibly to be totally going off; but the lands inserted with this poison, held only to the cultivation of cos-fe, and will not produce sugar previous to this evil, those observers who were best acquainted with the colony, uwcre all o opinion, that's plantations were susceptible of improvement, and might be increased about one fourth part. Its present situation is far from encouraging such flattering hopes. i"' I IHE proprietors of the lands on the island may be Martllncu di iced into four chaises. The first are possessed of a,: ; hundred large sugar plantations, in which twelve thou-sand negroes are employed. The second have one hundred and fifty, worked by nine thousand blacks. The third poTs thirty, with two thousand blacks. The fourth, devoted :o the culture ofcoftce, cotton, cocoa, and calTf.a, mrr.a e!cy twelve thousand negroes. The remaining saves of both sexes are engaged in domestic services, in filing:, or in na:.igation.,THE firil cl c ifs entirely of rich people. Their culture is carried to the highest degree of perfection:, and they can afford to keep it up in the flourishing fate which they have brought it. Even the expences they must b at for replacing deficiencies, are not so great as those cf the i;ss wealthy planter, as the fives born upon these plan-station,
nations, supply the place of those destroyed by time and B o o K labour. XIII. THE second class, which is that of planters in easy circumstances, have but half the hands that would bene cellar to get a fortune equal to that of the opulent pro praetors. If they could even afford to buy the number of flares they want, they would be deterred from it by fatal experience. Nothing is so pernicious as putting a great number of fresh negroes at once upon a plantation. The sicknesses those miserable wretches are liable to, from a change of climate and diet; the trouble of inuring them to a kind of labour which they are not accustomed to, and which they dislike, cannot bt disgust a planter, from the constant and laborious attention he must pay to this training up of men for the cultivation of land. The most alive proprietor is he who is able to increase his works by one sixth of the number of flares every year. Thus the second class might acquire fifteen hundred slaves yearly, if the net produce of their lands would admit of it. But they must not expect to meet with credit. The mer chants in France do not seem disposed to trust them; and those who circulated their flock in the colony, no sooner saw it unless or in danger, but they remove it to Europe, or to St. Domingo. THE third class, which is but one remove from indigence cannot amend their situation by any means to be devised in the natural courses t;rde. ii is much if they can subsist by themselves. The beneficent hand of go government can alone impart life' to them, and make them useful to the fate, by lending them without intcrcd the sis they may wnt, to rile their plantations. These might venture upon fresh negroes, without the inconveniences which belong to the second class, bccaufe,each
B 0 0 K each planter having fewer slaves to look after, will beadle to attend more closely to those he may purchase. THE fourth class, who deal in articles of less consequence than sugars, do not stand in need of such power ful helps, to recover that ease and plenty from which they are fallen, by war, hurricanes, and other misfortunes. Could there two last classes but make an acquisition of fifteen hundred laves every year, it would be sufficient to raise them to that degree of prosperity to which their industry naturally intitles them. THUS Martinico might hope to revive her drooping plantations, and to recover the first splendor to which her diligence had raised her, if she could get a yearly ac cession of three thousand negroes. But it is well-known that he is not in a condition to pay for these recruits. She owes the mother-country, for balance of trade, about a million () A series of misfortunes has obliged hero borrow four millions (c) of the merchants fettled in the town of St. Peter's. The engagements she has entered into on account of divided inheritances, and those he has contrived for the purchase of a number of plantations, have made her insolvent. This desperate situation will neither allow her the means of retrieving on, nor the ambition of pursuing that road to fortune which onely open to her. Whether ADD to this, that he stands exposed to invasion. But hMartmnico can be on though there are a hundred places where the enemy may qucred. land, yet they will never make the attempt. It would,be to no purpose, because of the impossibility of bring ing up the artillery and ammunition, across such a rugged country to Fort Royal, which defends the whole colo ny. It is in this latitude only that the enemy would fail for such an attempt.,{h) 4~:'s1. (c) i-iioo
IN the front of this firing place, is a famous har-B 0 0 K hour situated on the side of a broad bay, that cannot Xi. be entered without many tacking, which must decide the fate of any hip that is forced to avoid fighting. If (he happens to be unrigged, or is a bad sailor, or meets with one accident from the variations of the squalls of wind, the currents, or whirlpools, he will fall into the hands of an assailant that is a better sailor. The fortress itself may become an useless and inglorious spectator of the defeat of a thole squadron, as it has been a hundred times of the taking of merchant ships. THE inside of the harbour is much injured on account of the hulks of several hips that have been sunk there, to keep out the English in the lais war. There vessels have been taken up again: but it will still require a great deal of expence to remove the heaps of sand which are gathered about them, and to put matters in the same fate they were before. This work will not admit of any de lay; for the port, though not very spacious, is the only one where hips of all rates can winter; the only one where they will find masts, fails, cables, and excellent water, which is brought there from the distance of a league by a very well-contrived canal, and which may be easily procured. AN enemy will always land near to this harbour, and there is no preventing it, whatever precautions are taken. The war could not long be carried on against them in the field, and the people would soon be reduced to shut themselves up in their fortifications They formerly had no other fortification than Fort Royal, where inrr.enfc sums had been ignorantly buried under a ridge of mountains. All the knowledge of the ablest engineers has never been sufficient to give any degrees
BO K of strength or solidity to works erected at random, by Xii,. the most unskillful hands, and; without any frt of plan. They have been obliged to content themselves with add ing a covered way, a rampart and flanks, to such parts of the place as would admit of it. But the work of the most consequence has been to cut into the rock, which easily gives way, and to dig subterraneous rooms, which are airy, rholelbme, and fit to keep warlike stores and provisions, as also to alter the fink and to defend the soldiers, and such of the inhabitants whose attachment to their country would inspire them with courage to defend the colony. It has been thought that men who were sure of finding a safe retreat in these caverns after having exposed their lives on the ramparts, would soon forgetting fatigues, and face the enemy with fresh vigour. This was a-oct thought, and must have been suggested, if not b a patriotic government, at least by some fen file and humane finisher. BT the bravery this m:lif inspire, could not be sufficient to preserve a place which is commanded on all sides. It was therefore thought advisable to look out for some more advantageous situation, and this they found on the point called Morne Garner, higher by thirty-five or forty feet than the higher tops of Palate, Tortenfon, and Cartouche, all which overlook Fort Royal. UPoN this eminence a citadel has been raised, confiding of four bastion. The bastions in front, the covered way, the rerr\cvir, for water, the powder Magazines; all there means of defence are ready, and it cannot be long before the rit will be finished. Noticing will soon remain to k- constructed but the cazerlno, and other nccci.arv buildings. If even the redoubts and the ba::tri s in:.c::.J, to force the enemy to make their,de-
descent at a greater distance than Vasco bay, where BOO they landed at the last invasion, should not take the Amp effet that is exceed from them ; yet still the co tony would be able to resist about three months. Fifteen hundred men will defend the Morne Gr- lier for thirty or fix and thirty days against an army of fifteen thousand ; and twelve hundred men will sus tain themselves for twenty or five and twenty days in Fort Royal, which cannot be attacked till Gamier has been taken. This is all that can be expected from an expence of seven or eight millions of livre sid THOSE who are of opinion that the navy alone ought to protect the colonies, think that so considerable an ex pence has been misapplied. Unable as we were, say they, to ere fortifications and to build ships at the same time, we ought to have preferred the indispensable to the secondary calls. Especially if the impetuosity in the character of the French disposes them to attack rather than to defend, we ought sooner to destroy than erect for tresses X or we should build none but flips those moveable ramparts, which carry war with them, instead of fitting Rill to wait for it. Any power that aims at trade, and the establishment of colonies, must have ships, which bring in men and wealth, and increase population and circulation whereas bastions and soldiers are only fit to con fume men and provisions. All that the court of Ver filles can expect from the expence she has been at in Martinico, is, that if the island hould be attacked by the only enemy fhc has to fear, there will be time enough to relieve her. The English proceed slowly in a siege; they always go on by rule, and nothing diverts them from completing any works that concern the tfic;y of the assailants; for they esteem the life of a fuidier of,more (d) About 32,00ooo on an average.
B O 0 More consequence than the loss of time. This maxim,,so sensible in itself, is perhaps misapplied in the destructive climate of America ; b: i i the maxim of a people, whose soldier is engaged in the service of the slate, not a hireling paid by his prince But whatever be the future fate of Martirico, it is now time to inquire into the present slate of Guadalupe. Calamities THIS island, which is of an irregular form, may be dPbv the about eighty leagues in circumference. It is parted in French two by a f'nall arm of the fca, which is not above two who first fete at leagues long, and from fifteen to forty fathom broad. GuadA- This canal, known by the name of the fait river, is na-navigable, but will only carry vessels of fifty tons burthen. THAT part of the island which gives its name to the whole colony, is, towards the center, full of craggy rocks, and so cold that nothing will grow there but fern, and some useless shrubs covered with moss. On the top of these rocks, a mountain called la Souphriere, or the Brimstone mountain, rifts to an immense height into the middle region of the air. It exhales through various openings a thick black smoke, intermixed with sparks that are visible by night. From all these hills low num beliefs springs, which fertilize the plains below, and mo derate the burning heat of the climate, by a refreshing fireman, o celebrated, that the galleons which formerly used to touch at the windward islands, had orders to re new their provision with this pure and salubrious water. Such is that part of the stand properly cilec Guadalupe. That which is commonly called Grande Terre, has not been so much favoured by nature. It is idccd left rugged, but it wants springs and rivers. The soil is not so fertile, or the climate so wholesome or so pleasant. No European nation had yet poiTciTed this hand, when five hundred -. n ;shy Frenchmen, ld on by two gen-,tlemen
(cement named Line and Plessis, arrived there from B O O K Dieppe on the auth of June 1635. They had been very XlI' imprudent in their preparations. Their provisions were so ill chosen, that they were spoilt in the passage ; and they had shipped so few, that they were exhausted in two months. They were supplied with none from the mo ther-country. St. Christopher's, whether from scarcity or design, refused to spare them any.; and their first at tempts in husbandry they made in the country could not as yet afford any thing. No resource was left fr the colony but from the savages; but.the superficies of a people, who cultivate but little, and therefore had never laid up any stores could not be very considerable. The new comers, not content with what the savages might bring of their own accord, came to a resolution to plunder them; and hostilities commenced on the t6th of January 1636. THE Caribs, not thinking themselves in a condition openly to resist an enemy, who had so much the ad vantage from the superiority of their arms, destroyed their own provisions and plantations, and retired to Grande Terre, or to the neighbouring islands. Front thence the most desperate came over to the island from which they had been driven, and concealed them selves in the thickest of the forests. In the day-time they hot with their poisoned arrows, or knocked down with their clubs, all the French who were scattered about for hunting or fishing. In the night, they burned the houses and destroyed the plantations of their unjust loiters. A dreadful famine was the consequence of this kind of war. The colonists were reduced to graze in the fields, o eat their own excrements, and to dig up dead boi.;s or their fubitelice. Many who had bl ita \e at Algici s VOL. I. A a 
O O K detested the hands that had broken their fetters ; and all of,them cursed their existence. It was in this manner that they atoned for the crime of their invasion, till the government of Aubert brought about a peace with the savages at the end of the year 640. When we consider the injustice of the hostilities which the Europeans have committed all over America, we are almost tempted to rejoice at their misfortunes, and at all the judgments that pursue those inhuman oppressors. We are ready to renounce the ties that bind us t the inhabitants of our own hemisphere, change our connections, and contrat beyond the seas with the savage Indians an alliance, which unites all mankind, that of misfortune and companion. THE remembrance, however, of hardships endured in an invaded island, proved a powerful incitement to the cultivation of all articles of immediate necessity, which afterwards induced an attention to those of luxury con fumed in the mother-country. The few inhabitants who had escaped the calamities they had drawn upon themfe!i es, were soon joined by home discontented colonia from St. Christopher's, some Europeans fond of novelty, some sailors tired of navigation; and by some ea cap pains, who prudently chose to commit to the care of a grateful soil the treasures they had saved from the dangers of the sea. But still the prosperity of Guadalupewas stopt or impeded by obstacles arising from its situation. The cclo- THE facility with which the pirates from the neigh ny of Guam dalupe pouring hands could carry off their cattle, their laves, makes no their very crops, frequently brought them into a very great pro goes. ruinous situation. Intestine broils, arising from jealousies of authority, often disturbed the quiet of the planters. The adventurers who went over to the wind ward islands, disdain ng a land that was fitter for agri. culture than for naval expeditions, were easily drawn to,Mar-
Martinico, by the convenient roads it abounds with. B 0 K,XIII. The protection of those intrepid pirates, brought to that island all the traders who flattered themselves that they might buy up the toils of the enemy at a low price, and all the planters who thought they might safely give themselves up to peaceful labours. This quick population could not fail of introducing the civil and military government of the Leeward islands into Martinico. From that time, the French ministry attended more fe piously to this than to the other colonies, which were not so immediately under their direction ; and hearing of no thing but this island, they turned all their encourage ments that way. IT was owing to this preference, that in 1700, the whole population of Guadalupe was but 3825 white people; 325 savages, free negroes, mulattoes ; and 6,725 laves, many of whom were Caribs. Her cultures were reduced to 60 fall plantations of sugar, 66 of indigo, a little cocoa, and a great deal of cotton. The cattle amounted to 1,620 horses and mules, and 3,699 head of horned cattle. This was the suit of sixty years labour. But her future progress was as rapid as her first attempts had been flow. AT the end of the year 755, the colony was peopled with 9,643 whites, and 41,140 slaves of all ages and of both sexes. Her saleable commodities were the produce of 334 fuga. plantations; 15 plots of indigo 46,840 fens of cocoa; I,7oo of tobacco ; 2,257,725 of coffee; 12,748,447 of cotton. For her provision she had 29 squares of rice or maize, and 1,219 of potatoes or yams ; 2,028,5zo banana trees; and 32,577,950 trenches of alfava. Thcfc details arc the moor essential parts of the history of America, so far as it concerns Europe. Cato the Censor Would have recorded them ; and Charlemagne a 2 would
B O O K would have read them eagerly. Who should be ashamed to Xiii. attend to them ? Let us then pursue these useful disquisitions. The cattle of Guadalupe consisted of 4,946 horses 2,924 mules; 25 asses; 13,716 head of horned cattle; 11,162 steep or goats; and 2,444 hogs. Such was the Rate of Guadalupe, when it was conquered by the English in the month of April 1759.,FRASCE lamented this loss; but the colony had reason to comfort theml;le's for this disgrace. During a siege of three months, they had seen their plantations de strove, the buildings that served to carry on their works burnt down, and sone of their saves carried off. Had the enemy been forced to retreat after all these devafla. tions, the island was undone. Replied of all assistance from the mother-country, which was in no condition to send her any succours, and expelling nothing from the Dutch, who on account of their neutrality came into her roads, because he had nothing to offer them in exchange, he could never have subsided till the fcalbn of the ensuing earnest. The Eg THE conquerors delivered them from there apprehends cGnu fio ns. The English, indeed, are no merchants in their dilute, colonies. The proprietors of lands, who molly refined t in ran in Europe, send their representatives whatever th:; to i s want, and draw the whole produce of the estate by the gree oft return of their ship. An agent, fettled in one sea-pot prosperity. of Great-britain, is incrusted with the furnishing the plantation, and receiving the produce. This was im practicable at Guadalupe; and the conquerors in this rcpect were obliged to adopt the custom of the con queried. The English, informed of the advantage the French made of their trade with the colonies, hastened in imitation of them, to send their ships to the conquered i.an.d, and so multiplied their expeditions, that they
overstocked the market, and sank the price of all Euro B 0 O K pean goods. The colonist bought them at a very low price, and in consequence of this glut, obtained long delays for the payment. To this credit which was necessary was soon added another arising from speculation, which enabled the colony to fulfil its engagements. A great number of negroes were carried thither, to hasten the growth and enhance the value of the plantations. It has been aid in a hundred memo rials, copied from each other, that the FIglifh had flocked Guadalupe with 30,000, during the four years and three months that they remained masters of the sand. The registers of the custom houses which may be de pended on, as they could have no inducement to impose upon us, attest that the number was no more than 18,72 . This was sufficient to give the nation well grounded hopes of reaping great advantages from their new conquest. But their ambition was frustrated, and the colony with its dependencies was restored to its former possessors in July 1763. BY the dependencies of Guadalupe, muff be under stood several small islands, which being included in the district of her jurisdiction, sell with her into the hands of the English. Such is the Defeat, which seen to have been detached from Guadalupe by the fca, and is only separated by a small canal. It is a kind of rock, where nothing will grow but cotton. Wee are not certain at what terre it was first inhabited, but this little settlement is certainly not of a long Handing. THE Saintes, three leagues distant from Guad:dupc, are two very small islands, which, with another yet smaller, make a triangle, and a tolerable harbour. Thirty Free, h- . men were went thither in 1648, but were soon driven away by an excessive drought, which dried up their only,A a 3 prin;,
B OK spring, before they had time to make any reservoirs. Second attempt was made in 1652, and lasting plantations begun, which now yield fifty thousand weight of coffee and ninety thousand of cotton. THIS is but little, but it is more than the produce of St. Bartholomew, which was peopled with fifty French men in 1648. They were all murdered in 1656 by a troop of Caribs from St. Vincent and Dominica, and were replaced but a long while after. In 1753, the co lifts were no more than i7o in number, and their whole fortune confined in 54 slaves, and 64,000 cocoa trees. Since the last peace, the population of the white people has increased to 400, and that of the blacks to coo. The plantations have increased in the same po portions. The soil of this small island is very hilly, and excessively barren ; but it has the convenience of a good harbour. The wretchedness of the inhabitants is so well known, that the English privateers which frequently put in there during the late wars, have always paid punctually for what few refreshments they could spare them, though the miserable inhabitants were too weak to compel them. There is then some humanity left even in the break of enemies and pirates ; man is not naturally cruel ; and only becomes so from fear or interest. The armed pirate, who plunders a vessel richly laden, is not destitute of equity, nor even of compassion, for a set of poor de senseless ilanders.,MARIGALANTE was wrested from her natural inhabitants in 1648. The French, who had forcibly taken possession of it, were long annoyed by the savages of the neighbouring hands, but at last are left peaceable possessors of a land the:' have cultivated, after they had un peopled it. This island is net large, but fruitful; it,cul-
cultivates twenty-one sugar plantations, 7,000 cocoa B OK,XIII. trees, 562,700 items of coffee, and 4,621,700 of cotton. u . If there frequent computations are tiresome to an indolent reader, who does not like to take account of his income, left he should find he must set bounds to his expences, it is to be' hoped they will be less o to political calculators, who find the exact measure of the strength of a state in the population and produce of lands, and are by these means the better enabled to compare the natural resources of the several nations. It is but by an exam register of this kind, that we can judge of the present state of the ma time and trading powers that have settlements in America In this case, accuracy constitutes the whole merit of the work, and the reader must excuse inelegance in favour of real utility. The public is already sufficiently amused and imposed upon by eloquent and ingenious de descriptions of distant countries; it-is now time to investigate truth, to compare the several histories of there countries and to find out what they now are, rather than what they formerly were. For the history of what is past is of little more consequence to the present age, than the history of what is to come. Let us then again observe that no one should think it strange, that we so often repeat the numeration of people and cattle, of lands and their produce; in a word, that we should so frequent ly enter into disquisitions which may appear dry, but are in fat the natural foundations of society. Why then should we be disgusted at seeing these things in a work which shews us our riches ? Let us, therefore, resume the subject, and compute the wealth of Guadalupe. BY the survey taken in 1767, this island, including the lesser settlements above-mentioned, contains 11,863 white people of all ages, and of both sexes; 752 frees a 4 blacks
B 0 O Backs and mulattoes; 7,761 slaves; which makes n XIII. all a population of 85,376 fouls the cattle consists of 5,063 horses; 4,854 mules; lIl asses; 17378 head of horned cattle; 14,895 sleep or goats; and 2,669 hogs The provision is 3,476,218 trenches of clara ; 2,819,2$2 banana trees; 2,118 squares of land planted with yams and potatoes the plantations contain 72 ariosto trees; 327 cf cassia; 13,292 of cocoa; 5, 81,176 of coffee; 12,156,769 of cotton; 21,474 squares of lInd planted with sugarcane. The woods occupy 22,097 Squares of land There are 20,247 in meadows ; and 6,405 are uncultivated or forsaken. Only 1582 plantations grow cotton, coffee, and provisions of eatables. Sugar is made but in 401. These sugar-works employ 140 water-mills, 263 turned by oxen, and 11 windmills the produce of Guadalupe, including what is poured in from the fmial finds under her dominion, ought to bev very considerable. ;ut in 1768, it yielded to the mother-country no more than 140,418 quintals of fine sugars; 23,603 quint-is of raw, sugars; 34,205 quintals of coffee; ,S55 quilts's of cotton; 456 quintals of cocoa; 1,884 quintals of ginger; 2,529 quintals of logwood; 2 costs of sweetmeats; 165 chess of li queurs; 34 casts of rum; and 1,202 undressed skins. A!l these commodities were sold ir the colony only for 7,c13,838 livres,!e) and the merchandise they have re civet from France has cost thnom but 4.523,884 livres.(f) It is easy to judge from hence hbw great a part of the produce has been fraudulently exported, since it i known that the crops cf Guadalupe are more plentiful than those of Marti;:ico.,Tlit (t) 32o.7 s. re-J/. (f) 97,919l. :Ss. 6d.
THE reasons for this superiority are obvious. Guam O OK,XIII. dalupe employs a greater number of flares upon the plan nations than Martinico, which being at once a trading and a planting island, engages many of her negroes in the towns and among the sipping. There are fewer children in Guadalupe, because the fresh negroes brought to the new-erected works, are all adults, or at least able to work, and the black women seldom breed till the fe conc year after their arrival in America. This may be owing to the change of climate and food asserting their constitutions, or, possibly, to a kind of reserve which they are more susceptible of than they are generally thought to be. Lastly, a great many of there blacks have been placed upon fresh lands; and ground newly cleared al ways yields more than that which is exhausted by long tillage. BUT if we may trust to some observers, the colony muff expect that her plantations will decrease. They maintain that part of the island properly called Guadalupe had long since attained the utmost pitch of increase, and the Grande Terre, almost all of which is newly cleared, as fords three fifths of the produce of the whole settlement. It is impossible that this part of the island can keep up to that flourishing state, to which a lucky chance has brought it. The land is naturally barren, already exhausted by forced culture, and the more exposed to the droughts, so common in this climate, as there is hardly a tree left. Betides the cultivation of them is attended with difficulty and cost, and the crops can only be kept up, by a daily increase of labour and expence, and by constantly re turning into the ground, the net produce of each harvest. YET many are of opinion that Guadalupe may augment her income by one fifth, and that the time of this increase is near at hand. The colony has no considerable debts.,With
B O O K Having fewer wants than the richer islands, where afflu. xII.,ence has long since created new desires and a new taste, the inhabitants can spare the more for the improvement of their lands. Their situation, in the midi of the English and Dutch settlements, gives them an opportunity of running a fourth part of their sugars and cottons, at a higher price than they would sell for to the French cap pains, to purchase saves and other articles in exchange at a cheaper rate. From there concurring circumstances, it is not unlikely that Guadalupe will on rise of herself to the greater prosperity, without the assistance, and in spite of the clogs, government has imposed upon it. Changes TrE flourishing slate to which Guadalupe had been the admit raised by the Eng!lh, when they restored it at the peace situation excited a general surprise. It was beheld by the mother of Guadi- hup lfinre country, with that kind of consideration and respect it has been which opulence inspires. Hitherto, this, as all the other reitordc o the domi windward islands, had been subordinate to Artifice. It lion of was rescued from this dependence, by appointing a go-governor and an intendant, to preside over it. These new administrators, desirous of signalizing their arrival by some innovation, instead of letting the commodities of this island return into the old track, laid a plan for con eying them directly to Europe. This scheme was by no means disagreeable to the inhabitants, who owed Martini two millions, which they were in no haste today; and it vas contrived that the ministry at home hould adopt it. From that time, all intercourse was strictly prohibited between the two colonies, which became as great strangers to each other, as if they had belonged to rival, or even to hostile powers. THE immediate connections of Guadalupe with france, had been hitherto confined to fix or seven ships every year. This number was increased, but not sufficiently to ease,the
the colony of the whole of her produce. This scheme B 0 o K,XIII. was carried into execution with two much haste. It ,. should have been done very gradually and with much caution for, certainly, most innovations in politics require to be introduced and conducted with moderation. The harbours of Guadalupe are but bad, the coasting trade difficult, and the goods frequently damaged in loading and unloading. These and other reasons had deterred the merchants of the mother-country from opening a direct trade with the colony, notwithstanding the inconveniences and charges attending an indirect one, There was a degree of prejudice in this; but many precautions were necessary to induce them to get rid of it. It was necessary to entice European ships to come to the colony by one privileges, and indulgences, which might ba lance the disadvantages that kept them away. With this kind of management the intended revolution would have been brought about gradually and insensibly. In short, the French hips hould have been encouraged, in order to keep off those of Martinico, not those of Martinico driven away, to bring in the French ships, which might possibly never arrive. SUCH was the commercial interest, singly considered; but, perhaps, it might come in competition with political interests of much greater importance. This is what we shall now examine. FRANCE has been hitherto unable effectually to protect her own colonies, or to annoy those of her most formi table rival. This double advantage can only be pro cured by a navy equal to that of a power, which openly declare. itself our natural enemy. Till that period arrives, which, from our present situation, seems to be more and more remote, it concerns us, at least, to put our colonies in a condition to provide for themselves in case of a war.,This
Booths they were able to do, when Martinico was the , 1 .center of all the winds ard settlements. From this iflnd,,full of traders nd seamen, and the most happily situated of all the French islands, with regard to the winds that blow in there latitudes, were sent out constant supplies of men, arms and provisions, which reached the other co ionics in twenty-four hour, with a mora! certainty of not been intercepted, nwith:,taling the multiplicity and strength of the squadrons destined to cut off this communication. Nob was this all. Swarms of privateers, went out from Martinico, made it impossible for the British trade to proceed without a convoy; and as the convoys could not be had in a constant succession, so as to bring a re gular supply to a climate where provisions will not keep long, the English islands were often reduced to great scarcity. The provinces of North-america endeavoured, it is true, to mate up this deficiency; but the cargoes sold so cheap, that they could not afford a convoy i so that the French privateers were sure to carry off two fifths of their trade with the southern colonies. And, indeed, all the vigilance and skill of the English could not prevent the Martinico privateers, during the hal war, from taking fourteen hundred vessels. ALL the advantages of Martinico, in which Guada- luke had is share, and which greatly contributed to the victualling of both islands, and to distress the ene mr's settlements, will be all lost by the separation made between the colonies by the mother-country. We hall no longer see there any merchants, nor eaten, nor stationed ships; and if a war should break out, there will te no fitting out the smallest-armament in those parts. It is the business of the court of Versailles to judge wh:-,thn
loner the direct navigation from the ports of France to B 0 K,XIII. Guadalupe can make amends for so great a sacrifice. BUT can France be assured of enjoying a long and MIafures,taken by quiet possession of this island? If the enemy that might Franc cbr attack the colony, chose only the Grande Terre, and the defences Guada- carry off the slaves and cattle from thence, it would be lue. impossible to hinder them, or even to make them sussex for it, unless an army was opposed to them. Fort Lewis, which defends this part of the settlement is but a wretched star fort, incapable of much resistance. All that could possibly be expected, would be to prevent the deviation from extending any further. The nature of the country presents several more or less fortunate positions, in which the progress of an assailed may be flopped with security whatever his courage or his forces may be. He would, therefore, be forced to remark and proceed to the attack of what is properly called Guadalupe. THE landing of the enemy could be effected no where but at the bay of the Three Rivers, and at that of the Bailiff; or rather these two places would be most favour able to the success of his enterprize; because they would bring them nearer than any other to Fort St. Charles of the Basse-terre, where they would have less difficulties to encounter. LET the enemy chuse which ever of there landings they please, they will find nothing more than a spot co vexed with trees, intersected with rivers, hollow ways, narrow pases, and steep ascents, which they must march over exposed to the French fire. When, by the superiority of their forces, they have surmounted these difficulties, they will be flopped by the eminence of the great camp. This is a platform surrounded by nature, with the river Galleon, and with dreadful ravines, tq which art has added parapets, barbettes, hanks and embrasures to direct the,ar-
3 0 0 O artillery in the befit manner. This intrenchment, tho' .formidable, must be forced. It is not to be imagined that an intelligent general would ever leave such a post as this behind him: his convoys would be too much ex posed, and he could not get up what would be necessary for carrying on the siege of fort St. Charles, without much difficulties those who were first employed in fortifying Guada- luke, had understood the art of war, or even been only engineers, they would nt have failed chusing the petition between the river Cense and the river Galleon, for erecting their fortifications. The place then would have had towards the sea-side a front, which would have in closed a harbour capable of containing forty fail of ships, which would have annoyed the enemy's fleet, without being themselves in the least exposed. The fronts to wards the rivers Galleon and Cense, would have been inaccessible, being placed upon the summit of two very sleep ascents. The fourth front would have been the only place open to an attack, and it would have been an easy matter to strengthen that as much as might have been thought proper. BY chusing the present position of fort St, Charles, the works, which were construed right, ought at least to have flanked each other, from the sea and from the heights. But the principles of fortification were so much neglected, that the fire was pointed entirely in a wrong direction, that the internal works were in all parts open to the view, and that he resentments might be bat tered from the bottom. SucH was the condition of fort St. Charles, when in 1764 they began to think of putting it in a ate of de fence. Perhaps, it might have been best to destroy it totally, and to place the fortifications on the position just,Fointcd
pointed out. They contented themselves, however, with B OO K,XIII. covering the bad fort construed by unskilful persons, , . with out-works; adding two bastions towards the sea side; a good covered way, which goes all round with the glacis, partly cut and partly in a gentle slope ; two large places of arms with re-entering angles, having each a good redoubt, and behind there good tenailles, with ca pondered and posterns of communication with the body of the place; two redoubts, one on the prolongation of the capital of one of the two places of arms, and the other at the extremity of an excellent intrenchment made along the river Galleon, the platform of which is defended by the cannon from another intrenchment, made on the top of the bank of the other side of the same river; large and deep ditches, a reservoir for water, and a powder magazine, bomb proof; in a word, a sufficient quantity of works underground to lodge a third part of the garrison All there outworks well contrived being added to the fort, will enable an active and experienced com mander to hold out a siege of two months, and perhaps more. But whatever may be the resistance that Guada- luke can oppose to the attacks of the enemy, it is time to pass on to St. Domingo. THIS island is sixty leagues in length its main breadth Srttlmcl;,of te is about thirty; and its circumference three hundred and Fi-eth t fifty, or fix hundred in chaffing round the several basest. Doting It is parted lengthways, from east to weft, by a ridge otf mountains, covered with woods, which rising gradually exhibit the finest prospect imaginable. Several of there mountains were formerly full of mines, and, perhaps, are so fill; others are fit for culture. Almost all of them form delicious and temperate vallies ; but in the plains. where the soil is very fertile, the air is so scorching hot as to be almost intolerable) especially in those places by,the
B o K tho sea side where the coast runs narrow, between the XIII., water and the back of the mountains, and is exposed to a double reflection of the fun, both from the rocks and the waves. SPAIN was the foe proprietor of this large possession, when one English and French, who had been driven out of St. Christopher's took refuge there in 1630. Though the southern coast, where they first fettled, was in a manner forsaken, they considered that being liable to be attacked by a common enemy, it was but prudent to secure a retreat. For this purpose they pitched upon Tortuga, a small island within two leagues of the great one; and twenty-five Spaniards who were left to guard it, retired on the first summons. THE adventurers of both nations, now absolute mailers of an island eight leagues long and two broad, found a pure air, but no river and few springs. The mountains were covered with choice woods, and the fertile plains only wanted the hand of the cultivator. The northern coast appeared to be inaccessible, but the southern had an excellent harbour commanded by a rock, which required only a battery of cannon to defend the entrance of the island this happy situation soon brought to Tortuga a multitude of those people who are in feared either of fortune or liberty. The most moderate applied themselves to the culture of tobacco, which grew into repute, whilst the more native went to hunt the buffaloes at St. Do lingo, and sold their hides to the Dutch. The molt intrepid went out to cruize, and performed such daring feats as will be long remembered. THIS settlement alarmed the court of Madrid. Judg ing by the losses they had already sustained, of the mis fortunes they had tll- to expect, they gave orders forth
the definition of the new colony. The general of the B O O K,XIII. galleons chore, for executing his commission, the time XI when the brave inhabitants of Tortuga were out at ea or a hunting, and with that barbarity which was then o familiar to his nation, carried off or put to the sword all those who were left at home. He then withdrew, with out leaving any garrison, fully persuaded that-such a pre caution was needless, astor the vengeance he had taken. But he fool found that cruelty is not the way to secure dominion. THE adventurers, informed of what had been doing at Tortuga, and hearing at the same time that a body of five hundred men, destined to horrors them, was getting ready at St. Domingo, judged that the only way to escape the impending ruin, was to put an end to that anarchy in which they lived. They therefore gave up personal in dependence to social safety, and made choice of one Willes to be at their head; an Englishman who had di extinguished himself on many occasions by his prudence and valour. Under the guidance of this chief, at the latter end of 1638, they retook an island which they had possessed for eight years, and fortified it that they might not lore it again. THE French on felt the effets 'of national partiality. Willes having sent for as many of his countrymen as would enable him to give laws, treated the rest as sub jecls. Such is the natural progress of dominion; in this manner most monarchies have been formed. Companions in exile, war, or-piracy, have chosen leader, who soon usurps the authority of a master. At first hefhiares the power or the spoils with the strongest, till the multitude, crushed by the few, embolden the chief to assume the whole power to himself, and then monarchy degenerates into dcliotifm. tut filch a fcr;cs ofrevolultions can only take place in ma Vol III, b ny
B 0 0 K ny years in great states. An island sixteen leagues squares of too much consequence to be peopled with slaves. The commander De Poincy, governor-general of the windward iflands,being informed of the tyranny Willes,immediately sent forty Frenchmen from St. Christopher's, who collected fifty more on the coast of St. Domingo. They landed at Tortuga, and having joined their countrymen on the island, they altogether summoned the English to withdraw. The Englifil,difconccrted at such an unexpected and vigo rous aa, and not doubting but so much haughtiness was supported by a much greater force than it really was, eva coated the island, never mere to return the Spaniards were not so tractable. They suffered so much from the depredations of the pirates which were daily sent out from Tortuga, that they thought their peace, their honour, and their interest, were alike con cornet in getting that island once more in their own power. Three times they recovered it, and were three times driven out again. At last it remained in the hands of the French, in 1659, and they kept it till they were so firmly established at St. Domingo, as to disregard so small a settlement. THEIR Progress, however, was but flow, and they sirs drew the attention of the mother country in 1665. Huntsmen, indeed, and pirates were continually seen ho veering about from one island to another, but the number of planters, who are properly the only colonies did not exceed four hundred. The government was sensible how necessary it was to multiply them; and the care of this Measures difficult work was committed to a gentleman of Anjou, taken h- named Bertrand Dogeron. the French to render THIS man, whom nature had formed to be great in 'this'" himself, independent of the smiles or frowns of fortune, g:cus. had served fifteen years in the marines, when he went,over
over to America in 1756. With the best contrived plans, B 0 K,XIII. he failed in his fir attempts; but the fortitude he hewed in his misfortunes, made his virtues the more conspicuous, and the expedients he found out to extricate himself, heightened the opinion already entertained of his ge nisus. The etleem and attachment-he had inspired the French with at St. Domingo and Tortuga, induced the government to intrust him with the care of directing, or rather of fettling that colony. THE execution of this project was full of difficulties It was necessary to subdue a lawlefscrew, who till then had lived in a ate of the most absolute dependence to reconcile to labour a troop of plunderers, who delighted in nothing but rapine and idleness; to prevail upon men accustomed to trade freely with all nations, to submit to the privileges of an exclusive company formed in 1664 for all the French settlements. When his was effected, it then became necessary to allure new inhabitants into a country which had been traduced as a had climate, and which was not yet known to be so fertile as it really was. Oberon, contrary to the general opinion, was in hopes he Should succeed. A long intercourse with men he was to govern, had taught him how they were to be dealt with, and his sagacity could suggest or his honest foul adopt no method of alluring them, but what was noble and just. Tne free-brothers were determined to go in search of more advantageous latitudes; he detained them, by re languishing to them that hare of the booty which h post entitled him to, and by obtaining fr them from Portugal, commotions for attacking the Spaniards, even after they'd made peace with France. This was the only way to make there men friends to their country, who otherwise would returned enemies, rather than have renounced the hopes of,B b 2 plunder.
B o o K plunder. The buccaneers, or huntsmen, who only wifled,to raise a sufficiency to ever habitations, found him ready to advance them money without interest, or to procure them force by his credit. As for the planters, whom he preferred to all the other colonies, he gave them every possible encouragement within the reach of his industrious activity. THESE happy alterations required only to be made per anent. The governor wisely considered, that women could alone cement the happiness of the men and the welfare of the colony, by promoting population. There was not one female on the new settlement. He there fore sent for some. Fifty came over from France, and were soon disposed of to the best bidders. Soon after, a like num ber arrived, and were obtained on still higher terms. This was the only way to gratify the most impetuous of all passions, without quarrels or bloodshed. All the inhabitants expected to see help mates come from their own country to soften and to share their fate. But they were dis. appointed. No more were Cent over, except women of no character, who used to engage themselves fer three years in the service of the men. This method of loading the colony with the refuse of the mother-country, introduced such a profligacy of manners, that it became necessary to put a flop to so dangerous an expedient, but without substituting a better. By this neglect, St. Domingo lost a great many ho newsmen, who could not live happy there, and was deprived of an increase of population, which might have proceeded from the colonists, who still preserved their attachment to the island. The colony has long felt, and, perhaps, feels to this day, the effects of so capital a fault. NoTrWITHsTANDING this error, Dogeron found means to increase the number of planters to fifteen hundred in four years time, when there were only four hundred at his,flrft
first coming. His successes were daily increasing, when B 0 0 K,. XIII. they were flopped at once in 1670, by an infurreion,,t which put the whole colony in a ferment. He did not experience the lea censure for an unfortunate accident, in which he certainly had not the least (hare. WHEN this upright man was appointed by the court of France to the government of Tortuga and St. Domingo he could only prevail upon the inhabitants to ac knowledge his authority, by giving them hopes that the ports under his jurisdiction hould be open to foreigners. Yet such was the ascendent he gained over their minds, that by degrees he established in the colony the exclusive privilege of the company, which in time engrossed the whole trade. But this company became so elated with prosperity, as to be guilty of the justice of selling their goods for two thirds more than had till then been paid to the Dutch. So destructive a monopoly revolted the inhabitants. They took up arms, and it was but a year after, that they laid them down, upon condition that all French ships should be free to trade with them, paying five er cent. to the company at coming in and going out. Dogeron, who brought about this accommodation, availed himself of that circumstance to procure two ships, seemingly destined to convey his crops into Europe, but which in sac were more the property of his colonists than his own. Every one Chipped his own commodities on board, allowing a mo derate freight. On the return of the effet, the generous governor caused the cargo to be exposed to public view, and every one helped himlfeI to what he wanted, not only at prime cool, but upon truss, without interest, and even without notes of hand. Dogeron had imagined he should inspire them with sentiments of probity and greatness of foul, by taking no other security than their own bare word. He was cut off by death in the midst,Bb 3 of
B 0 O K of these parental offices, in 1673, leaving no other in-inheritance than an example of patriotism, and of every humane and social virtue. His nephew Pounce succeeded rather to the duties than to the honours of his place. With the same quali fictions as Dogeron, he was not so great a man, because he followed his steps more from imitation than form na tural disposition. Ye; the discerning multitude placed an equal confidence in both, and both had the honour and happiness to establish the colony upon a firm sorting, without laws and without soldier. Their natural good sense, and their known integrity, determined all differences to the satisfaction of both parties ; and public order wis maintained by that authority which is naturally attendent upon persona! merit.,So wise a constitution could not be during ; it required too much virtue to make it so. In 1684 there was so visible an alteration, that in order to establish a due subordination at St. Domingo, two administrators were called in from Martinico, were good policy was already in a great measure fettled. These legislators appointed courts of judicature in the several districts, accountable to a fu periorcouncil at Little Goyave. In process of time this jurisdiction growing too extensive, a like tribunal was erected in 1702 at Cape St. Francis for the northern di striae. ALL these innovations could hardly be introduced with out some opposition. It was to be feared that the hunters and pirates, who composed the bulk of the people, averse from the restraints that were going to be laid upon them, would go over to the Spaniards and to Jamaica, allured by the prospect of great advantages. The planters themselves were under one temptation of this kind, as their trade was clogged with so many restrictions, that they,were
were forced to sell their commodities at a very low price. B 0 0 K,XIII. The former were won by persuasions, the latter by the. prospect of a change in their situation, which was truly desperate. SKINS had been the first article of exportation from St. Domingo, as being the only things the buccaneers brought home. Tobacco was afterwards added by the culture of lands, and it was sold to great advantage to all nations. This trade was on confined by an exclusive company, which indeed was in a short time abolished, but with no advantage for the sales tobacco, since that was farmed out. The inhabitants, hoping meet with some favour from go government, as a reward for their submission, offered to give the king a fourth part of all the tobacco they should send into the kingdom, free of all charge even of freight, upon condition they hould have the free disposal of the other three-fourths. They made it appear, that this me thod would bring in a clearer profit to the revenue than the forty fols (g) per cent. which were paid by the farmer. Private interests opposed so reasonable proposal. This unkind treatment exasperated the colonists, and luckily for them, they applied themselves wholly to the culture of indigo and cocoa. Cotton was a very promising article, because it had greatly enriched the Spaniards in former times; but they on gave it up, for what reason is not known, and in a few years not a single shrub of cotton was to be seen. TILL then the labours had all been performed hv'hire- lings, and by the poorest of the inhabitants. Some successful expeditions against the Spaniards, procured them a few negroes. The number was increased by two or three French hips, and much more by prizes taken from the English during the war of 1688, by an invasion of,B b 4 Jamaica, (g) Ir. 9.
0 0 Kt Jamaica, from whence our people brought away three thousand blacks in 1694. Without slaves, the culture of sugar could nor be undertaken i but they alone were not sufficient. Money was wanting to ere buildings, and to purchase utensils. The profit some inhabitants made with the free-shooters, who were always successful in their expeditions, enabled them to employ the flares. They therefore undertook the planting of those canes, which convey the gold of ':lcxico t nations whose only mines are fruitful lands. BUT the colony, which though it had lost one of its Europeans, had ti made a progress to the north and weft, amidst the devastations that preceded the peace of Rif wick, was yet in no forwardness to the south. This part, which includes fifty leagues of sea-coals, had not a hundred inhabitants, all living in huts, and all extremely wretched. The government could fix upon no better ex pediment to make some advantage of so extensive and so fine a country, than to grant, in 1698, for the space of thirty years, the property of it to a company, which took the name of St. Luis. This company, in imitation of Jamaica and Curacao, was to open a contraband trade with the Spanish continent, and to clear the vast trac of land included in the grant. This last object, as it was the most important, was soon the only one that was attended to.,To advance the improvement of agriculture, the com pan)' freely granted lands to all who applied for them. Each person, according to his wants and abilities, obtained flares they were to py for in three years, the men at the rate of fix hundred livres (), and the women at the rate of four hundred and fifty livres (;). The same credit was given for goods, though they were to be deliverers (s. :ó. . (i) igl. 13p. grd.
the market price. The company engaged to buy up all B 0 0 K,XIII. the produce of the lands at the same rate as those commo cities were sold for in the other parts of the island. The society, which made so many concessions, had no other amends for them but the exclusive right of buying and selling through the whole territory assigned to them. Even this dependence, oppressive to the colonist, was still softened by allowing him to take where he pleased, what ever he was left in want of, and to pay out of his provisions whatever he might have occasion to buy. THE monopolizer, as a torrent that is lost in the abyss itself has made, works his own ruin by his rapaciousness, by draining the country where he exercises his tyranny. This mismanagement f the oppressor, the dejection of the oppressed, both concur to damp industry and trade in states subjected to exclusive privileges. 'She company of St. Louis affords an instance among many, of the ill effect of Itch private combinations. It was ruined by the knavery and extravagance of its agents, nor was the territory committed to its care, the better for all there losses. The plantations and people that were found there, when the company gave up her rights to the government in 1720, were chiefly owing to the interlopers. IT was during the long and bloody war begun on ac count of the Spanifl succession, that this attempt had been made towards the improvement of the colony. It might have been expected to have made a speedy progress, when tranquility was restored to both nations by the peace of Utrecht. These fair prospects were blast by one of those calamities which it is not in the power of man to foresee. Al the cocoa-trees upon the colony died in 1715. Dogeron had planted the firs in 1665. InlMisfor-,tunes that process of time they had increased, especially in the nary happen to row valleys to the westward. There were no less than the colony.,twenty
B O 0 K twenty thousand upon some plantations; so that though ,. cocoa sold but five fols (k) a pound, it was become plentiful source of wealth. CtLTIVATIoss of greater importance amply compensated this lost, when the colony was threatened with a total subversion. A confiderabie number of inhabitants, who had devoted twenty or thirty years labour, in a burning climate, to lay up a sufficiency to spend a corn. sortable old age in their native country, were gone over to France, with a uffici-nt fortune to enable them to pay off their debts and purchase fates. Their commodities were paid them in bank notes, which turned out to beef no ufeto them. This heavy stroke obliged them to return poor into an island from whence they had departed rich, and reduced them in their old age, to solicit places, as stewards to the very people who had formerly been their servants. The fight of so many unfortunate persons, inspired a general detestation, both of Law's scheme, and of the In dia company, which was considered as accountable for this ill-concerted project of finance. This aversion, raised by mere compassion, was on strengthened by very considerable personal interests.,Is 1722 agents cme from the India company, which had obtained an exclusive grant of the negro trade, on con edition that they should furnish twothoufand negroes yearly. This was evidently a double misfortune for the colony, who could not expect to get above one-fifth of the slaves they wanted, and foresaw that those would he sold at an extravagant price. Their discontent broke out into hats of the greatest violence. Some commissaries, who by their insolent behaviour, had greatly heightened the dread naturally conceived of all monopoly, were forced to re pass the seas. The buildings where they transacted their,bufincfs (k) Tvwo.penc halfpenny,
business were burnt to the ground. The ships that came B O O K to them from Africa, were either denied admittance into the harbour, or not suffered to dispose of their cargoes. 'She chief governor, who endeavoured to oppose there disturbances, saw his authority despised, and his orders disobeyed as tneyv were not enforced by any compulsive power. He was even put under arrest. All parts of the island rang with the cries of sedition, and the clashing of arms. It is hard to fy how far there excesses would have been carried, had not government been so prudent as to yield. This extreme confusions lasted two years. At length, the inconveniences resulting from anarchy, disposed the minds of all parties to peace, and tranquility was restored with out having recourse to desperate means. FROM that period, no colony ever made such a good ufeoftime as that of St. Domingo. They advanced with the utmost rapidity to a prosperous fate. The two un fortunate wars which annoyed her seas, have only served to compress her strength, which has increased the more since the cessation of hostilities. A wound is soon healed when the constitution s found. Diseases themselves are a kind of remedies, which by the expulsion of the vitiated hours, add new vigour to a robust habit of body. They restore the equilibrium of the whole frame, and im part to it a more regular and uniform motion. So war seems to strengthen and support national spirit in many states of Europe, which might be enervated and corrupted by the prosperity of commerce, and tire enjoyments of luxury. The immense lose, which almost equally attend victory and defeat, awaken industry and quicken labour. Nations will recover their former splendor, provided their rulers will let them follow their own bent, and not pre tend to direct their fetes. This principle is peculiarly applicable to France, where nothing is requisite for its,prosperity
BO o K prosperity but to give a free course to the activity of the ,I inhabitants. Wherever nature leaves them at full liberty they succeed in giving her powers their full scope. St. Domingo affords a striking instance of what may be ex pealed from a good soil and an advantageous situation, in the hands of Frenchmen. Prctrm: THIS colony hs iSo leagues c.f sea-coals, lying to ttc of thistle north, the v-efr, and the out. The southern part extends from cape TibJron, to the point of Beat Cape, which takes in about fifty leagues of coast, more or less confined by the mountains. The Spaniards had built two large towns in that part, at the time of their prosperity, but forsook them in their decline. The va cant towns were not immediately occupied by the French, who might not think themselves in safety so near the town of St. Domingo, where was centered the chief force of the nation upon whose ruins they were rising. Their corsairs, who commonly ambled at the little island called Vache Island, to cruize upon the Castilians, and divide their spoils, emboldened them to begin a settlement on the neighbouring coast in 1673. It was soon destroyed, and was not resumed till a good while after. The company appointed to fettle and extend this colony might be of rome service to it, but the progress it made was chiefly owing to the English of Jamaica, and the Dutch of Curacao, who having resolved to carry Inst all their slaves to this place, bought up the produce of a land which they themselves contributed to improve. Our merchants at home have at length opened their eves, and since the year 740o, they frequent that part which is the most distant of the colony, though the failing out of this road is sometimes very tedious and difficult, on account of the winds.,Tn £
THE settlement that lies to windward of the rest is B 0 0 K,XlII. called Jaquemel. Though of a pretty long standing, it, contains but forty-two houses. The soil of this and the neighbouring settlements is o hemmed in by the mountains that no great opulence is to be exceed from it; but in another light, it merits the attention of govern ment. It lies very conveniently for the reception of any troops or warlike stores, which the mother-country might choose to convey to the colony, in time of war, and which would run great risques in taking the north ide, that being the natural and constant fiction of the enemy's squadrons. Jaquemel may also be of great service in another light. The little Dutch island of Curacao affords in times of hostilities an inexhaustible (lore of provisions. Their privateers being wrong and bold enough to beat the little corsairs of Jamaica, the only English eels that have hitherto obtruded their operations, have poured ar immense flock of provisions into the port of Jaquemel, during the late troubles. They will continue this supply as long as we please, provided we will but secure their landing by proper batteries, or by the protection of a frigate or two. This place will supply the western side of St. Domingo, by a road of eight leagues only, which leads to Leogane and Port-au-Prince, and the southern side by small boats that can easily range the coast. WHILST Jaquemel is the storehouse, St. Lewis is the defence of the island. This town, built in the beginning of the century, lies at the bottom sofa bay, which makes a tolerable harbour. It contains but forty houses, and seemed to be doomed to lasting wretchedness, having na naturally no water to drink. Some Jews, who live with out the gates of St. Lewis, at length undertook to form an aqueduct, which they caged to construe at their own expence. lThis place is the feat of government; and,r -
S 0 0 K receives the few men of war which appear in there lath. XIII . 'studies. This is the only advantage it has, and it is by,this it is able to protect the trade and wealth of the Cayes, which lies ten leagues lower. THIS town seems to have been, as it were, thrown at random in the bottom of a shallow bay, which grows more and more so, and has but three channels. The anchorage is so confined and so dangerous during the equinox, that ships which happen to be there at those seasons, are frequently lost. The great quantity of mud brought thither by a torrent, called the south river, has increased to such a degree, that in thirty years time there will be no getting in. The canal formed by the vicinity of Vache Island is of no use but to obstruct navigation. The creeks in this place are the resort of the corsairs of Jamaica. As they cruize there without fails, and can ob serve without being seen, they always have the advantage of the wind over such vessels as are hindred by the violence and constant course of the winds from passing above the island. If any men of war should be forced to put into this bad harbour, the impossibility of surmounting this obstacle and that of the currents, in order to get to windward of the island, would oblige them to follow the track of merchant hips. Doubling, therefore, the point of Labacou, one after another, on account of the shoals, there ships would get between the land and the enemy's fire, with the disadvantage of the wind, and would in fallible be destroyed by an inferior squadron. THE town of Cayes is worthy of the harbour. It con pains 280 houses, ll sunk into swampy ground, and mot of them surrounded with stagnant water. The air of this pot is foul and unwholesome, and on this ac count, as well as the badness of the harbour, it has often been wished that the trade with the mother-country,could
could be transferred to St. Lewis. But the efforts that B O K have been made to bring this about have hitherto been unsuccessful, and will for ever be so for very evident reasons. THE town of Cayes is surrounded with a plain nearly fix leagues long, and four and a half broad. The ground which is very even, extremely fruitful and in every part fit for the culture of sugar, is well watered in many places, and may be so every where. Nothing is left to make it rival the plain of the cape, but an equal number of slaves. These are daily increasing, and will soon multiply to such a number as to make the most of this fertile spot. So many advantages are an inducement to persons who cross the seas merely in hopes of making a speedy fortune, to go directly to Cayes. To pretend to thwart this partiality would be to retard the progress of a good settlement, to no manner of pur pose. Eventide caprices of industry should be indulged by government. 1 he least uneasiness in the trader creates distrust. Political and military reasonings will never prevail against those of interest. The colonies are influenced by no other rule. Wherever there is most money, there they direct their steps, and there they fix. Trade is a plant that only thrives in a soil of its own chusing. It starts at every kind of restraint. Forbidding the trade of Cayes, would be just as absurd a piece of tyranny, as ordering the dealers at a fair to quit their falls. ALL that the French ministry could reasonably propose, would be to fortify, and in orme measure to cleanse this place. Both might be effected, by digging a ditch all round the town, and the rubbish would serve to fill up the marshes within. The ground being raised higher by this contrivance, would of course grow drier; the water,,which
B K which would be brought down from the river into this Xiii. deep ditch, would, with the help of one fortifications,,secure the towns from the attacks of the corsairs, and would even afford a temporary defence, and allow tine to capitulate with a squadron.,WVE may and ought to go further fill. Why not al low a factious harbour to an important mart, which will soon be stopped ? The merchant hips that go and seek shelter in what is called the Flemish Day, less than two leagues to windward of Caycs, seem to point out this as the very harbour that is wanted for this town. It would contain a good number of men of war, safe from all winds, would afford them several careening places, would admit of their doubling the Vachclland to windward, and enable them to any on with the town along-side the coast an intercourse, which being protected by batteries properly disposed, would keep all the corsairs in awe. The only inconvenience is, that the ship-worm is more aptto get at the vessel there than in other parts, on account of the nature of the bottom, and the calmness of the sea. THERE is a safer anchorage at the town of Bateaux, but it is only fit for small vessels. The foreign trade which is allowed there in time of war, and can hardly be prevented in time of peace, has rendered this port of consequence, which is hut a defenceless one. Next to Cayes, this is the principal town upon the coals, where most business i transact. Its territory and the adja cent country abounds chiefly in indigo, but very little of this is conveyed to France. THE southern part terminates at cape Tiburon. The little settlement made there, instead of a harbour has no thing but a road, :. hire the tea is constantly rough ; but its fortifications are a protection to such merchant thips,as
s are able to double the cape. It affords a retreat toB O o K,Xlll. neutral hips, which being pursued by pirates, have not, X . been able to reach Jaquemel and likewise to our men of war, in danger from the violence of the winds in these latitudes or from the superior strength of a hostile squadron. THOUGH this coast is the least of the three belonging to the French colony of St. Domingo, and that on the last day of December 1766, it contained but 33,66j saves; yet it is so considerable, that the mother-country may expect in time as great a produce from thence as from the richest of her windward islands. It is at present greatly exposed from its vicinity to Jamaica; but in time it may be in a condition to threaten that bulwark of the English, when once the lands are improved, the country well peopled, the ea-ports fortified and defend ed, and when once it has acquired that degree of solidity to which a good administration ought to bring it. IN passing from the south to the weft, the next fettle ment is at cape Donna Maria. It is so weak as yet, that in twenty leagues of sea-coast, there are not above fifty Europeans able to bear arms. And, indeed, a declaration of war is to them a signal of retreat, although they ventured to remain in their habitations during the late hostilities. But every inhabitant took care to manage a subterraneous retreat for himself and his slaves, when ever any privateer appeared. Notwithstanding this pre caution, several of their works have been surprised and carried off. THE next dfrinct, known by the name of la Grande Anse, or 'Anse de Jeremie, is not so liable to there accidents This town, situated on a rising ground where the air is pure, has some good houses, and is very pro missing. The great plenty of cotton and cocoa has in duce from merchants to trade there, and it is to this 'VoL, III c place
B O K place that privateers, which cruize upon the oast of Ja. mica, bring in their prizes. Culture and population have made some progress, and promise much more. No such thing is to be expected at Petit Guaves. This place, so famous in the times of free-brothers, is now but a heap of ruins. Its former splendor was owing to a road, where hips of all burdens found excellent anchorage, conveniences for resitting, ad a helter from all winds. As a harbour it would still be famous and frequented, were it not for the vicinity of Gonave, and for the stagnating waters of the river Cabaret, which is lost in the morasses, and makes the air foul and unwholesome. LEOGANE, situated within five leagues of Petit Guaves, contains 317 houses; which form a hong square, and fifteen fleets, wide and well laid out. It stands half a league from the fca, in a narrow but fertile plain, well cultivated, and watered with a great many rivulets. The inhabitants are extremely desirous of having a canal opened from the town to the anchorage, which would save the inconvenience of land carriage. If it were advisable to have a fortified town on the western coast, undoubtedly Leogane would claim the preference. It stands upon plain ground, is not commanded by any eminence, nor can it be annoyed by any ships. But to secure it from being surprised, it should be surrounded by a rampart of earth with a deep ditch, which might be filled with water without the least expence. This would not cost near so much as what has been done at Port-au- Prince ; and with what success the reader shall judge. THE western part of the stand was the first that was cultivated by the French, that being at the greatest di fiance from the Spanish forces, which they had then reason to fear. This being in the center of the coasts in their possession, the feat of government was fixed there. It,Wa»
was sirs fettled at the Petit Guaves, but they were soon B O D K,XIII. disguised of the barrenness and unwholesomeness of this spot. It Was then transferred to Leogane, and after wards to Port-au-Prince, which in 1750 became the re silence of a superiour council, a commander in chief and an intendant. The place that was made choice of for the intended capital, is a gap, about 1400 toises long in a direct line, and commanded on both sides. Two harbours, formed by some islets have afforded a pre hence for this injudicious choice. The harbour intended for trading vessels being now almost choaked up can no longer admit men of war with safety, and the great har your designed for these, being as unwholesome as the other from the exhalations of the small islands, neither is nor can be defended by any thing against a superior enemy. A small squadron might even block up a stronger one, in o unfavourable a position. Gonave, which divides the bay in two, would leave a free and Case passage for the lesser squadron ; the Tea winds would prevent the other squadron from getting up to it ; the land winds, by fa imitating the exit of the enemy's flips from the harbour, would leave them the choice of retreating through either of the outlets of St. Mark and Leogane; and they would always have the advantage of keeping Gonave between them and the French squadron. BUT what would be the consequence if the French squadron should prove the weakest ? Disabled and pursued, it could never gain a shelter that runs so deep into land as Port-au-Prince, before the conqueror had taken advantage of its defeat. If the disabled ships hould reach the place, no thing could hinder the enemy from pursuing them almost in a line, and even from entering the king's harbour, where they wc.!d tace refuges c THE
B O0 K THE best of all orations for a cruize, is that where you XIII,. may chuse whether you will accept or decline the fight, where there is but a small pace to guard, where the whole na be viewed from one central point, where one may be concealed without going far, get wood and wa ter at pleasure, and fail in open seas, in which there is nothing to fear but from quails. These are the advantages that an enemy's squadron will always have over the French lips at anchor in Port-au-Prince. A single fri gate might safely come and bid defiance to them, and would be sufficient to intercept any trading hips that should attempt to go in or out without a convoy. NEVERTHELESS a harbour so unfavourable as this hath determined the building of the town. It extends along the seashore the space of 12co toises, that is, nearly along the opening, which the ea has made in the center of the western coast In this great extent, which runs in to the depth of 550 rises, ace buried 558 houses or dwelling places, dispersed in 29 trees. 'I he draining of the torrents that fail from the hills, make this place always damp, without supplying it with good water. The inhabitants must send a great way to get more wholesome water. Add to all this, the little security there is in a place commanded on the land side, and on the sea side, easy of acres in all parts. Even the Inhale islands which divide the harbours, would be so far from defend ing the town from an invasion, that they would orly serve to cover the landing this description, which will not be oontradiflcd by any unprejudiced man acquainted with the place, plainly thews that the government has bowed too much attention on Port-au-Prince. It would be a fat! error obstinately to fight against nature, and endeavour to de send by art a place that lies open to invasion on all fides.,It
It would still be a greater error, to colet there the B 0 0 K,XIII. courts of justice, troops, warlike stores, provisions, the. arena!; in a word, all that constitutes the support of a great colons, an d at the same time to leave it open to the energy. This port ought merely to serve for the em variation of the corps gathered in the adjacent fields, and in the rich plain of the Cul-de-fac. This would only require a guard sufficient to prevent a surprize, and to secure the retreat of the inhabitants, who will always be ready to abandon a place, which mud inevitably surrender on the first attack, Saint Mark is much in the same case. This town is not very deep, but extends along the hole, at the bottom of a bay crowned with a crescent of hills, which are only parted from the sea by a very small plain. Nature has left this interval of life and cultivation between the ari city of the mountains and the abyss of the waters. But these hills, though barren, are not altogether'urfelfs they have the property, which is found in no other part of the colony, of furnishing as good free-sone as any in Eu rope, and the coal itself supplies it without much la your. With this stone the town is built. It confirm of 54 houses, formerly defended by an intrenchment of earth, which is no longer extant.,St. Mark sa very trading place. All such commodities as are not sent to Port-au-Prince are bought thither, as likewise ae all the crops gathered from within the town to the mole of St. Nicholas. The prosperity of this place would be greatly increased, if one could water the plain of the Arribonite, which is naturally too dry, but would surpass the belt lands i fruitfulness, if this could be once etfeaed. THE Artibcnite takes its name from a river which di vides it lengthways, almost from one end to the others c 3 The
B-0 0 K The waters of this river confined by sluices flow con-flatly on the highest part of the plain. The height of the bed of the river has long ago suggested the idea of dividing it, and it has been geometrically demonstrated that this is practicable; but a project founded on mathematical knowledge, ought not to be carried into execution without the utmost caution. The impetuosity of the stream, when swelled by rains, and the softness of the soil on which the river flows, make it very dangerous to make any alteration in the banks. The smallest outlet, injudiciously made, would in a few moments open such an enormous breach, as would make way for very. alarming and destructive inundations over a wait tract of land. Nevertheless all the proprietors are-impatient to see this great work undertaken. But administration mush judge whether private societies, which solicit leave to pro cure conveniences of water that can only serve to en rich their own grounds, would not be detrimental to the projet of watering the whole country. Rather than sus ser public welfare to give place to private interest, the go government should gift those who cannot afford to contribute towards the general conveyance of water. They would soon be repaid by an increase of one-sixth in the produce of the colony. This increase would be greater still, if a method could be devised to drain that part of the coast which is drowned in the waters of the Artibonite. By such means the man who enjoys theblefings of society, makes the earth subservient to his own use, by altering the course of the rivers. The fertility he imparts to the land, can alone justify his conquests, if indeed art and la your, law and virtues, may be allowed inproccfs of time to atone for the injustice of an invasion the western part of the colony, which on the last day of December, 766, contained alone 83,080 slaves, is,separated
separated from the northern parr by the mole of St. Ni B O K nicholas, which lays on both coasts. At, the head of the I . cape is a good, Case, and commodious harbour. It stands directly opposite to point Maize, in the island of Cuba, and seems naturally destined by this portion to become the most important pols in all America for the convenience of navigation. The opening of the bay is 1450 toises broad. The road leads to the harbour, and the harbour to the baron. All this great recess is wholesome, though the sea is quite still there. The baron, which seems as if made for the purposes of careening, has not the inconvenience of close harbours. It is open to the were and north winds, and yet, if they blow ever so hard, they can never interrupted retard the work that's doneintheharbour. The peninsula where the harbour is situated, rises gradually to chaplains, which stand upon very large boasts; beseems as it were a tingle mountain, with a broad and fat top defending with gentle slope to unite with the rest of the island TH mole:of St. Nicholas-was long over-looked-by the inhabitants of St. Domingo. The bare hills-and rocks it abounded with-afforded nothing worth their notice. The use with the Engliifhmade-ofit during the last war, has made its some consequence. The French ministry, intruded by our very enemies, sent a number of Acadians and Germans there, who died there very fail. This is constant ly. the fate that attends all new settlements between the tropics, The few that have out-lived the fatal-effect of the climate, and those of vexation and poverty, are daily deserting the poor and barren soil of St. Nicholas. Possibly the freedom granted to foreigners to frequent this place, ay put a flop to the emigration. Perhaps, the facility with which the colonists may be able to dispose of their crops and their cattle in consequence of this-communication, may fix them upon the lands allot-,C c 4 ted
B JrOl ted to them. Thee assert, however, no ccrr.roditis fit,for Europe, except cotton. THE next settlement on the north coast is called Port Paix. It owed its origin to the neighbourhood of Tortuga, whoe inhabitants took refuge there when they forsook that island. The grounds were cleared so early, that this is one of the healthiest spots in St. Domingo, and has hon. since attained the ut mot degree of richness and population it is capable of; but is not very considerable, though industry has been carried so far, as even to bore mountains for the con penance of water to moisten the grounds. They have very little far, and chiefly apply themselves to the cul ture of indigo, coffee, and cotton. It is on all sides so difficult to come at the Fort Paix, that it is in a Iman ner cut off from the rest of the island. The next fettle ment to this retired place is Cape Francois. This town is built on the side of an extensive plaint twenty leagues long and four broad. Few lands are bet ter watered; but there is not one river where a op can go up above three miles. All this great space is inter seed with strait roads, forty feet wide, and planted on both sides with hedges of citron-trees, thick enough to serve as a fence against the beads. There are long avenues of tall trees, leading up to several habitations. It were to be wished such as these had been planted along the roads; for they would not only have been ornamental, but would also have afforded a delightful hade for travellers and prevented that scarcity of wood which is al ready complained of. Though the French had long been sensible of the value of this soil, which is rich and fruit ful beyond description, they did not set about cultivating it till the )ear 167o,whn they had nothing more to fear from the inroads of the Spaniards, who till then had con-,tinu-d
tinged in that neighbourhood in a state of nobility. The B O O K,· , . , .XIII. method that was taken of bringing thither the inhabitants of Santa Cruz and St. Christopher's, hastened the progress, ofthis settlement. It is now, of all places in the world, that which, produces the greatest quantity of sugar,. : . Champlain, which is bounded to the north only by the sea, is terminated t the louth by a ridge of mountains, which varie, in depth from four to eight leagues. Few of them are very high; several of them may be cultivated to the very summit, and they are all intersected at in intervals with exceeding fine plantations of cortes and in dig. In these delightful vales, all the Sweets of hiring are enjoyed, without either winter or summer. there are but two seasons in the year, and they are equally fine. The ground, always laden with iritis anu co vexed with flowers, realizes the delights and riches of poetical descriptions. Wherever we tun our eyes we are enchanted with a variety of objects, coloured and re smelted by the purest light. The air is temperate in the day time, and the ignis are coniltditly cool. The inhabitants of the plain, upon which the fun darts his most powerful rays, repair to t ee mountains to breathe a cooler air, and allay their thirst with wholesome water. Happy the mortal who first taught the French to fettle oa this delicious spot. 'Tht man was one of those whom the spirit of into legation in religious matters began to drive out from their native country. A Calvinist, named Robin, went and reared the first habitation at this cape. More houses were built as the grounds were cleared. .This settlement had already made such progress in the compass of five and twenty years, as to excite the jealousy of the English. They joined their forces with those of Spain, and attack-sing
KoOcylcingit bath by land and ea, in rec, they foro, plush,. .tered, and reduced it to ashes. :,A great advantage might have beeffn rade'of this misfortune Interest, which is the primary founder of all colonies, had induced the inhabitants ro chuse in' a har your that is three leagues in circumference, the foot of the hill for the portion of the cape, because it.was the place that lay most convenient for the anchorage. This situation, however, being unwholesome, should Have in duce the colonists to fettle fume where else. This circnnl- stance tey did not attend to, but rebuilt their town where itneveroughto have been built at-all, in-addle place, in which the rays of the fun are rendered more scorching by the reflection of the mountains, and the indica only come from the coast over the marshes. Yet such' is the richness the adjacent country, that the town has al ways prospered, and increased in buildings more and more plea fan rand beautiful. THE cape is now interfered by twenty-nine strait fleets, into 226 clusters of houses, which amount to 8'o; but these streets are too narrow, and having no lope, are always dirty ; for as they are paved' only in the middle, the kennels, which are not even on each side, ga ther into puddles and common flores, instead of draining of the waters. SEVERAL squares have been planned in this city. That of Notre Dame, though an old one, is hardly levelled. It is a long square, with a fountain in the middle, which is often dry, for want of being properly supplied. A church has been began some years since, but its immense size, the want of money, and the tedious importation of stone from Europe, makes the work go on very slowly. The square of Cluny, which is a regular one, was built from necessity, to remove an offensive morass; and the dry-sing
ing up of this bog must certainly contribute the whole Bo o K sameness of the air. The governor's house, the barracks, and a royal magazine, are the only public buildings that attract the notice of the curious; but the humane observer cannot avoid-beholding with pleasure those foundations that are called the houses of Providence. Most of the French, who firs come into the colony, are destitute of resources and talents, and before they have acquired industry to get their living, are almost all canted off by sickness. Atthe cape, these helpless distressed creatures are. taken into two habitations, where the men and the women are severally provided with every thing they want, till they can get employed. It is a fame that such an excellent institution has not been copied in ether places; a neglect equally repugnant to humanity and good policy. IT would be for the interest of trade to ere in all co ionics such hospitable houses as the of St. Domingo. These may be said to be truly pious and divine institutions as they are calculated for the preservation of man kind. Whether it is owing to this, or to good manage ment in other respects, certain it is, that fewer in pro portion die at the cape, than in the other towns along the sea-coast. The care that has been taken to purify the air by draining the fens, the thorough clearing of the hills, the proximity of a plain almost completely cultivated, all thefe.circumflances have concurred to correct the noxious influence of an unhealthy situation. THE labour of the cape deserves to receive the rich produce of all the adjacent country; and it is admirably well adapted to admit the ships that come from Europe. The air is the belt in all the island. It lies. open to none but the north-east wind, and cannot even be hurt: by this, the entrance being full of reefs, which break the,violence
B O 0 K violence of the waves. A hip gets out very easily, and X.I.I toon launches into the open lea.,FOUILTEEN leagues to windward of the cape is Fort Dauphin. It was formerly a town, which was called Bayaha; but since it has been removed nearer to the sea and has changed its name with its place. The new town lies in the innooft center of a spacious harbour, which has only one outlet, formed by a channel, 15co toises long and about oo broad. It is surrounded by a river to the weft, and terminated by the lea (lore on the east. The fort stands on a very small peninsula to the north, and on the southern side is the plain. The town contains as yet but seventy houses. It is data efficient dance from the mountains, to be out of the reach of any hill that might reflect the heat, but some fens in the nes :hb)urhood make the air unwholesome. The forificat rei are uitcient to keep a squadron at bay for two or three days. Though this is such a fine ars Las: h:v-bur, the ma jor part of the produce of its w:i pain is still sent to the Cape. The mas of trade will 2zlva s attract the heifer branches and rea fa-ports will absorb and dry up small 1rcidr- Irs 1720 the commodities of the whole colony of St. . i."^!, Do-lingo amounted only to 1,2o0,cco pounds weight of rehco:,iy. indigo, I,4Cc.coo of white sugar, and 21,000,00c o0,raw auger. The plantations were extended, and in 1734 those of cuttn and coffee were added. In 1754 th commodities were sold upon the spot, for 28,S33,581 livres (/). It is true they received from the mother country to the amount of 4o,628.,78o livres (n) worth of goods. But if the colony got into debt, it was only to hasten its pro ferry. The population of whites amounted then to 7758 men capable of bearing arms; to 2525 women either (') :.5615,;.9t. 3,. .'d. ( ) 1,777,5091. zJ. 6d.
either widows or married; to 78r young marriageable B 0 K persons ; to 1691 boys, and 1503 girls under twelve, I years of age. Among the blacks or free mulattoes, were reckoned 1362 men fit to bear arms; 1626 widows or married women ; love boys, and 864 girls under twelve years o, age. The manufactures were peopled with 79,785 negroes; 53,817 negro women; 20,5i8 negro boys, and 18,428 negro girls. Of raw sugar they worked 344. plantations, and 255 white sugar; 3379 of indigo; and there were cultivated S,946 cocoa trees; 6,300,367 cotton plants; and 2 1,0 3,842 cassia trees. The provisions of the colony were 5,520,503 banana trees; 1,201,849 plots of potatoes; 226,c98 plots of yams; and 2,830,586 trenches of cassava. The cattle did not exceed 63,454 horses and mules, and 9,946 heads of horned cattle. IN 1764, St. Domingo had 8,786 white men able to bear arms, of which 4,3c6 lived in the north, 3,470 in the weft, and only ,0lo in the south. 'These forces were increased by 4, 14 mulattoes or fr-e negroes, who were enrolled. Of there there were 497 to the south, 2,250 to the weft, and 1,370 to the north. THE number of slaves was 206,000, men, women and children, parcelled out as follows: 12,000 in nine cities, some artificers, and some employed in domestic services; 40c0 employed in the lesser towns, in the tile and brick kilns, pot houses, line kilns, nd other necessary handicrafts; Loco defined to the cultivation of provisions and kitchen grounds; 18o,ooo devoted to productions for exportation. Since this estimate was made, about fifteen thousand negroes have been brought annually into the colony. There have n,,t supposed the place of the dead, for that vacancy was more than filled up by slaves smuggled into the hand. n:r hare they been,em-
BOO Employed as servants in the cities, where a lesser numbers kept than formerly. These fresh negroes were all able bodied men, and have been put to the labours of the plantations, which they mutt have greatly improved. Neither have the plantations received any injury by the substituting of some articles in lieu of others. INSTEAD of indigo, which began to yield but poorly on some grounds that were too much spent, forty new sugar plantations have been formed. There are now 260 to the north, 197 to the well, and 84 to the south. The refining works have been increased in till greater proportion than the plantations, and the quantity of white sugar is aloft doubled. Cotton has made great pro griefs in the valleys to the weft, and coffee has thriven prodigiously in those to the north. Some plantations of cocoa have even sprung up in the woods of the great bay. Peace has restored the old branches of trade, and opened new ones. Under her protection every thing prof pers and she constitutes the felicity of both worlds. WE may affirm, from undoubted authority, that in the course of the year 1767, there have been exported from this colony no less than 72,718,781 pounds weight of raw sugar; 51,562,013 pounds of white sugar; 1,769,562 pounds of indigo; 15oooo pounds of cocoa; 12,197,977 pounds of coffee; 2,95,920 pounds of cot ton; 8,4-o of hides in the hair; 10,350 tanned hides; 4,108 casks of rum; 2,14 casts of molasses this is the sum total of the productions entered at the custom-houses of St. Domingo, in 767, and ex ported on board 347 hips went from France. The goods taken in under fail, the overplus of the weight, the pay ment of the smuggled blacks, cannot have carried away lets than a sixth part of the produce of the colony, which put be added to the known estimate of her wealth.,Sine;
Since that period all the plantations are increased, and B o o K those of coffee trebled. OPINIONs differ as to the increase it is ill capable of attaining. Some think it may be doubled, others rate it only at one third. All agree that the culture will fill ad mit of great improvements which may be expected from the ability of the nation that is possessed of so improbable a soil. But can the nation hope to reap the fruits of her labours? Is it certain that he will always preserve the property of them ? These two questions deserve a serious diffusion. THE trade which the French of St. Domingo carry on Trade of with their indolent neighbours, is of more consequence the French,of St Do. than it is generally thought to be. They supply them mine with stockings, hats, linens, guns, bard wares, and one with the,Spalniards wearing apparel and receive in payment horses, horned fettled in cattle both for laughter and for labour, fined beef and the fate bacon, skins, and laffMy twelve or fifteen hundred thou sand livres (n) which the court of Madrid devotes annually to the maintenance of the governor, the clergy and the troops in the first settlement the Spaniards ever made in the new world. Excepting some few Portugal pieces which retain a nominal value, far above their intrinsic worth, they have no coin but what they draw from their neighbours the Spaniards. Revolutions only which it is impossible to foresee, can ever put a flop to this inter course between the two nations that divide St. Domingo, and which is carried on both by land and sea. Here mu tuas wants get the better of inbred antipathy, or else theI what uniformity of climate fishes there feeds of division. manner the IT were to be wished that the French colonists were colony can injure the as certain of always keeping up their connects with continu Europe. Had the first adventurers who went over to .e of its,coircsli- St. ons with Abut 9o. un aro e. {«) About $9,oool, on an average.
B 0 0 K St. Domingo been in a condition to think of plantations they would doubtless have seized upon that part of the island which lies most to windward, which they might easily have done. The plains on that side are large and fertile; the land lies quite open to the ocean ; the coasts are safe; the harbours may be entered as soon as disco vexed, and one sighes ieght of them the very day one fails out. The track is such that no enemy can form any ambuscade ; the ccalt is unfit for cruising; there latitudes are convenient for the Europeans, and the passage expeditious But as the ferme of the French navigators was to attack the Spanish ships, and to infest the gulph of Mexico, the po!ieltfons they occupied in St. Domingo were surrounded by Cuba, Jamaica, the Turks; by Tortuga, the Caicos, Govava, and Lucas islands; where tie roads l;e concealed, and are the lurking places of the corsairs. They are alio surrounded by a multi tide of sand-banks and rocks, which make the progress of a ship flow and uncertain; and by narrow seas, which must give a great advantage to the enemy, either for landing, fr blocking up, or for cruising against so many dangers no effectual remedy will ever be found out, but a squadron constantly kept there in time war, and always in motion. Whether it has been owing to inability in the government to afford this kind of protection to the colony, or to the negligence of the admirals, who have lain by inactive in the harbour with their armed vests, certain it is, that hitherto the only plan of defence which could secure the trade of St. Domingo has never been pursued. IF the ministry and the navy should alter their prin cipher and their contra, the first thing to be done will be to protect the latitudes about the cape, where the na visitors coming from France always enter in time of war,,and
and mostly too in the time of peace. The necessity of B 0 0 K reconnoitring the promontory of la Grange, situated xII ten leagues higher up, bring thither swarms of privateers, who seldom miss of their prey Two good armed vessels stationed there, would easily make themselves masters of that cruize. If, contrary to all expectation, the enemy hould come with a superior force, no doubt they muff yield, but it would probably be but for a short time. HAVING thus facilitated the entrance of ships to the Cape, the next thing would be to secure their going our, which might be effected in the following manner. One of thetwo men of war, which should always be stationed in the harbour, would take several merchant men under her convoy, see them safe out, and return within three or four days at furthest. She would seldom be in any danger, be cause ships of the line are hardly ever seen in those parts, nor could they be these without being observed. Whilst one part of the squadron was employed in protecting the navigation of the north, the rest and most considerable part would cover the other coasts of the colony. This part would have its chief station at ort-au-pririce. Two of there vessels would go from thence to the Mole St. Nicholas, as dangerous a place for ships going from the cape to the weft and south, as la Grange for those that want to land at the cape. They hould never pass the point of the Mole; the forces stationed to the northward should endeavour to scour the sea as far as that place, which is the more important, as all the armaments from New England going to Jamaica must be intercepted at this passage they are obliged to make. The squadron of Port-au-prince should further be commissioned to shew itlilf now and then to the southward of the island, to protect its own latitudes, and to convoy all homeward Vos, III, D d bound
B o o K bound ships till they were got clear of the island. It might,, ,even occasionally go and cruize upon Jamaica when it,could be spared. HATING thus provided for the security of the produce of the colony from the attempts of the enemy, it is in unbent on the mother-country to take the necessary measures for preserving o valuable a property. To put a IN former times, the Spaniards who still occulfhalf end to the disputes the island, were formidable rivals. As soon as the French subsisting had made their appearance at St. Domingo, warm con between the Fr-nchtefls arose between the two nations. A few private and Spaniard insignificant men ventured to go to war with a people arts at St. Domingo, armed under a regular authority. These men were ac it would be knowledged by their country as on as they were thought necessary to fix the firing enough to maintain themselves in their usurps limits cf tions. A commander was sent to them who bore the both colo tien. name of governor of Tortuga and St. Domingo, which title was afterwards changed to that of governor-general of the Leeward islands. The brave man who was first appointed to command those intrepid adventurers, caught their spirit to such a degree as to propose to his court the conquest of the whole island. He pledged his life for the success of the undertaking, provided they would send him a squadron strong enough to block up the harbour of the capital. THE ministry of Versailles, neglecting a project which was in reality more practicable than it appeared to them at a distance, left the French exposed to continual hostilities. Notwithstanding this they always repulsed them success fully, and even carried devastation into the enemy's country, but those animosities kept up in their minds a spirit of robbery and plunder, indisposed them for useful labours, and stopt the progress of agriculture, which should be the ultimate end of every well-regulated colony, and their.
sirs object of every society that is in the possession of B O O K,XIII. lands. The error which France had fallen into, in not seconding the ardour of the new colonies for the conquest of the whole island, was likely to have lost her that part of which she was already in possession. Whilst the French were engaged in carrying on the war of 688 against all Europe, the Spaniards and the English, who both dreaded seeing them firmly established at St. Do lingo, united their forces to drive them out. Their first attempts gave them reason to expect a compleat success, when they quarrelled with each other, and from that time became irreconcilable enemies. Ducaffe, who managed the colony with much sagacity and great reputation, took advantage of their divisions to attack them one after the other. He first sell upon Jamaica, where he destroyed all with fire and sword. From thence he was preparing to turn his arms against St. Domingo, and would infallibly have reduced the whole island, had he not been flopped in this expedition by orders from his court. THE house of Bourbon ascended the throne of Spain, and the French nation lost all hopes of conquering St. Domingo. Hostilities, which had noteven been suspended there, by the treaties of Aix-la-chapelle, Nimeguen, and Ryswick, ceased at last between people who could never be true friends to each other. The French planters recovered their tranquility. For some time palt, their slaves taking advantage of the national divisions, had shaken off their chains, and removed into a difiric where they found freedom and no labour. This desertion, which mull naturally have increased, was abated by the Spaniards entering into a contract to bring home the fugitives to their neighbours, for the sum of 250 lyres () a head. Although this agreement was not very,D d 2 re (o) Sol. ,i;. 9.
B 0 0 K religiously observed, it proved a powerful check till the X-lI. dissensions that divided the two nations in 1718. At,this period the negroes deserted their works in multi tides. This loss induced the French to think of reviving their old project of expelling totally from the island such neighbours, who were equally dangerous from their indolence, as from their turbulent spirit. The war did not last long enough to bring about this revolution. At the conclusion of the peace, Philip V. gave orders for the restitution of all the fugitives that could be found. They were just embarked, to be went to their old matters, when the people rose and rescued them: an at which we could hardly disapprove, had they been prompted to it by humanity, rather than by national hatred. It will always be pleasing to see people excited to rebellion on ac count of the ii::cry of the miserable negroes. Those who were rescued on th, occasion fed into inaccessible mountains where they have since multiplied to such a degree, as to be able to afford a se retreat to all the flies that can s:i. means to join them. There, in consequence of the cruelty of civilized nations, they become as free and as fierce as so many tygers, in expectation, perhaps, of a chef and a conqueror, who may restore the violated rights of mankind, b seizing upon an island which feels to have been intended fr the slaves who till the ground, and not for the tyrants who water it with the blood of those victims. THE present system of politics will not allow France and Spain to be at war with each other. Should any event occasion a rupture between the two nations, not withstanding the compact between the two crowns, it would probably be but a transient quarrel, that would not allow time for projecting conquests which must soon be restored. The enterprizes on both fides would, there-sole
fore, be confined to ravaging the country; and in this case B O O K,XIII. the nation that does not cultivate, at leafs at St. Domingo, would prove formidable by its very poverty, to that which has already made some progress in the culture of its lands. A Castilian governor was so sensible of this, that he once wrote to the french commandant, that if he forced him to an invasion, he would deProv more in the compass of one league, than they could if they were to lay waste all the country he commanded. HENCE it is demonstrable, that if a war should break out in Europe between the two powers, the most active of those powers ought to ask for a neutrality in favour of this island. Perhaps, it would be for the interest of both, that it should be totally in the hands of the most laborious. But even though the court of Madrid should resolve to relinquish a territory which is rather a burthen to Spain, there are fill many difficulties remaining. Great-britain, who is now fifties of the fate of America would hardly consent to such an accession of evalth to her rival. A more natural scheme, and which ought to meet with no obstacle, would be to fix the boundaries of the two nations that hare St. Domingo. This arrangement ought to have taken place on the accession of Philip V. to the throne; an event which gave the French plitf- sons of a degree of stability they never had before. It might hase been expect, that the nation which gave the other a king, should have stipulated that all the territory lying between the coasts they inhabited to the north and south, should remain under their dominion. more powerful interests then claimed the attention of both par tics, and this discussion was put off to another time, which is never come. Not a tingle conference has ever been open ¢d to fettle this difficulty. This eglcfl has been the occa-,Dd 3 sion
B 0 Sion of much bloodshed amongst the inhabitants. The XIII.,feeds of rage and discord were sown in every breast; and at half, in 1730, both nations took up arms to destroy each other. The principal people of both colonies succeeded at that time in calming their fury, by a provisional convention; but the successors of those able and moderate men may not always have the same authority or the same good fortune. Theist effectual method would be to put an end for ever to this intestine war, by legally au ventilating the respective property of both parties. To proceed with order and justice, it would be proper to go as far back as the year 1 co. At that period, both nations being upon friendly terms, remained the just owners of the lands they then possessed. The en encroachments made during the course of this century, by the subjects of one of the crowns, are the encroachments of individuals upon each other; they are not be come lawful possessions by being tolerated, and the rights of both powers are fill the same, since they have not been abrogated, directly or indirectly, by any convention Now it is evident from incontestable fads, that in the beginning of this century, the French possessions which are now bounded on the northern coast by the river of Massacre, extended then to the river Yagne. Those of the southern coast, which had been pulled on as far as the point of Cape Beaza, have been contracted in process of time to the inlet of Pitre. This revolution has been insensibly brought about, and is the natural consequence of the oeconomical system of the two neighbouring nations. The one which has applied itself chiefly to agriculture, has college all its possessions to wards the molt frequented ports, where the produce might be most readily disposed of. The other, whose,sub-
subjes were Shepherds rather than planters, wanting 0 K more room for the breeding of cattle, have seized upon . all the forsaken lands. By the nature of things, the pastures have been enlarged and the fields contracted, or at least brought closer together. It is not equitable that the most industrious nation, that which does moR good to the ground by improving it, should be stripped by the other, which only wanders about and consumes with out propagating. IT would not be so easy to fix the boundaries of the French in the inland ports, the frequent and daily revolutions that have happened there, having occasioned much uncertainty and confusion. The two colonies are at present separated by the mountains of Ounaminthe, of the Trou, of the great river, of the Artibonite, and of the Mirehalai. By this barrier, the French are con fined every where, excepting the points of Mole St. Nicholas and Cape Tiburon, to a narrow flip, which ex tends no where more than nine leagues and a half, and in some places not above fix leagues at most. This ter ritory forms a kind of crescent, whose convexity takes in 250 leagues of sea coast, to the north, weft and south. But these limits cannot subsist, for a reason which must get the better of all other considerations. THE French settlements to the north, are divided from those to the weft and south by inaccessible mountains. The impossibility succouring them, exposes them to the invasion of a power which is equally an enemy to both nations. The common danger, which creates a kind of reciprocal interest, should engage the court of Madrid to fettle the limits in such a manner, that her ally may find the assistance (he may want for her defence. The land that hould be given up is rugged, a very indifferent soil, and at a great distance from the sea. The proprietors of these d 4 lands,
B 0 lands, which are, indeed, uncultivated, but covered with Xlii. shocks, should be indemnified by France, with a gene-frosty which should leave them no room to regret what they had lost. e.'eifire; WVHES the possessions of the colon' are thus connected . and supr red within, by an uninterrupted chain combe tain mutilation, they must be fortified again the attacks cf bt France, the only enemy that is truly formidable, the English If to prorTt ° this cosy hey mean to attack Sq. Domingo by the weft or south, from so they wll colles ths ir tfrces at jamaica; if b the north, reign inv-a- - sons. they will make their preparations at Barbadoes, or smoother of the Leeward islands, from whence they may reach the Cape in seen or eight ds, whereas it would take site or fix weeks to come to that port from Jamaica.,THe weft and south are incapable of being defended. The immense extent of the trad renders it impossible to maintain any connect' n or regularly i the motions of the troops. If they arc d!fpcrlfed, they become useless by seing divided; if they are collected, for the defence of such poss as are rnlt liable to be attacked, from the na tural weakness of their p'lfiticn, they would be in danger of being all loll at once. Large battalions would be but a borden upon such extensive coals, which present too much flank or too much front to the enemy. We mull 1e content with writing or keeping up batteries to pro tee: te roads, 'tc i;nerci.ant sips, and the coasting trade, to keep off privateers, and even to prevent tl;e landing of a man of var ur two, that r .i'ht come to ravage the co .3 and levy control ion. The i;;ht troops, which are fucirin. to :support these batteries, v;:.' give ground in proportion to the advances of the enemy, and only t-ae care to avoid rendering till they are in dangcr.,BUT it is not neccibiJrvthat we fistula give up every kind of defence. At the bi-c'; of each coal, there should be replace
Place for shelter and for reinforcement, always open for re B 0 0 K,XIII. treat, out of the enemy's reach, sae from insults, and able to repulse an attack. This should be a narrow pass, where one might intrench and defend one's self to advantage. Such is that of la Gascony on the western coat. It has every natural advantage of situation, with this only in convenience, that it is not placed in the middle between all the quarters. The general rendezvous for the south, established on the habitation called Perrin, at the distance of o,ooo toises from the Cayes, is a retreat capable of very great resistance. In the center of all motions of re treat, it comprehends all that can be willed for as a de fence. Nature has provided it with a narrow pass, and at the same time covered its flanks, and Inst an opening at the back, which, whilst it huts every avenue against an enemy, cures a communication with the interior parts of the colony. FROM there impregnable retreats, they may continually harass the conqueror, who having no strong hold, will be perpetually exposed to be surprized. Ttlefe alarms would be doubled, if our people weir provided with a few squadrons of light horse, which might be procured at a small expence. The Spaniards of St. Domingo sell Andalusian horses at a moderate price, which are very tractable, and yet full of spirit, are unload, and feed all the year round in the meadows, where they sleep in open air. These are excellent forfkirmrif:es, and they will as ford time to wait for succours, which Im:y be brought up at any time from the north. The troops employed in this service, may, if wanted, fly to the assistance of those other parts of the colony which can only be attacked by sea. ALL those who are acquainted with the island of St. Domingo, know that the French settlements make as it were two distinct colonies, one to the louth and west, and,the
O 0 K the other to the north, which have no real and benefice xm. ,. ' . communication with the continent. So that even supposing the English were so firing, or had ally got firm footing in the well and south, they never could pe nitrate to the north by land. Should they attempt il it must be by that narrow flip which joins the French possessions on the weft and north, at Cape St. Nicholas! or else by crossing the Spanish territories, both which at impraticable.,THE first is a barren desert, so full of forests, passes and precipices, that a man on foot cannot get through but with much time and extreme labour. The other wa is little better. It lies across the Spanish mountains which are high, barren, and craggy, and whoever should attempt to pass them, mute expect to be harassed. Th northern coast, therefore, being inaccessible by land, cat only be attacked by sea. As it is richer, more populous and less extensive than the other two, it is more adapted to support a land war, and to make a regular defence. THE sea-side, which is more or less rocky, is in mans places swampy ground, and the mangroves, which cove these maries, make them quite impenetrable. This na tural defence is not so common as it was, since many o these coppices have been cut away. But the landing places which are commonly no better than gaps, surrounded or all sides by these woods overflowed with water, require but a moderate front to flop them up. Magazines, and other stone buildings are common there; they furnish polls for the erection of battlements, and secure the placing of one masked batteries. T sr first line of the shore seems to promise, that a coast of eighteen leagues, so well defended by nature, would, when seconded by the valour of the French, put the enemy in danger of being beaten the moment they,ihould
should land. If their schemes were discovered, or if the B 0 0 K,XlII. dispositions they were making at sea, Should poir.t out .v from afar the place of their landing, the forces might re pair thither and prevent it. But experience thews the in fallible advantage of squadrons at anchor. IT is not only the firing of broadsides from the ships to cover the approach of the boats that facilitates landing; it is the impossibility there is of guarding every part of the coast A squadron at anchor threatens too many places at once. Land forces move very slowly about the windings of the coast, while the boats and sloops arrive speedily by a shorter way. The assailer follows the firing, while the other muff go all along the bow. Disappointed and wearied out with a variety of motions, the latter is not less apprehensive of those he fees by broad day light, than of the manoeuvres of the night which he cannot see. In order to be able to oppose a descent, the first thing to be done is to suppose it ally accomplished; all our courage and strength is then exerted in taking advantage of the delay or mistakes of the enemy. As on as they are observed at sea, they may immediately be expected on land. A large there, on which a land ing may be effected, will always leave the plain of the Cape open to invasion; so that the chief attention must be directed, not to the seashore, but to the inland parts. THE inland parts are in general covered with sugar canes, which being more or less high, according to their degree of maturity, successively make the fields appear so many thickets. These are occasionally set on fire, either to cover a march, or to retard the enemy's pursuit, to deceive or astonish him. In two hours time, instead of fields covered with crops, nothing is to be %(en but an immense waste, covered with stubble.,THE
BO O K0 THE petitions of the cane grounds, the savannahs and the fields where the provision grows, no more ob strut the motions of an army than our meadows. In stead of our villages, they hae their habitations, which are not so populous, but sand thicker. The thick and strait hedges of citron lacs, ane closer and more impenetrable than the fences tat inclose our fields. 'This is what constitute the greater difference in the view of the fields of America and thutfe of Europe. Throughout the plain of the Cape there are but few rivers, orme few brooks, little hillocks; in genera i the country is flat, there are some dikes against inundations, few ditches if any, a wood or two, but not very thick, a few fens, a ground that is overflowed in a storm, and grows dusty again with twelve hours sunshine, rivers that fill one day and drs the next; such is the general face of the country. This div erfity must afford advantageous en components, and it must ever be remembered, that in a defensive war, the post one removes to cannot be too near the one that is quitted. IT is not the province of a writer to prescribe rules to military men. C.-far himself told us what he had done, not what we are to do. Topographical descriptions, de training the goodness of such or such a post, thecom- b;naticn of marches, the art encampments and retreats, the mot !iarncd theory ; all these must he submitted to the eve of the general, wvhn with the principles in his head, and the materials in his hard, applies both to the circum fences of time and pace, as they chance to occur. The miliary eris, :though mathematics, is dependent on fortune, which suits th. orcdr of the operations to the Diversity of appearances. Rules are liable to numberless exceptions. The very execution almost always alters the plea, and discompose the seem of an action. Encourage
courage or nynefs of the troops, the rashness of the 0 0 K enemy, the good or bad success of his measures, an ac , . accidental combat, an unforeseen event, a storm that swells a torrent, a high wind that conceals a frame or an am brocade under clouds of dust, thunder that frightens the horses, or is confounded with the report of the cannon, the temperature of the air, which constantly influences the spirits of the commander and the blood of the soldiery: all there are 1b many physical or moral causes, which by their uncertainty may overturn the best concerted projects. Whatever place is made choice f for a decent at St. Domingo, the town of the cape ;ill always be the object. 'I he landing will undoubtedly be somewhere il the bay of the Cape, where the ships will be ready to augment the laird-forces with two thirds of their crews, znd to furnish them with artillery, ammunition, and whatever they may want for the siege of that opulent fortress. It is towards this bulwark of the colony that all endeavours to keep off the assailed must be circled. The choice of advantageous positions will in some mea sure make up for the inequality of numbers. At the moment of landing, the ground must be disputed by supporting a kind of false attack, without engaging the whole of the troops. The troops must be posed in such a manner as to secure two retreats, the one towards the Cape, to form the garrison of that place, the other in the narrow pafl:s of the mountains, where they will keep an intrenched camp, from whence they may annoy the besiegers, and retard the taking of the place. Should the place surrender, as it would be an easy matter to fa vr;;r he cation of the troops when they c. rcuate the pl.:ce, all the bl ,fiefs would nr.t vt b over. T t!uu!;:alils dirt w which try vj ould t-akc !cfuei, :i.lc. csib'.e
B 0 Q K to an army, surround the plain with a double or treble X., chain, and guard the inhabited parts, by very narrow passes, which may be easily defended. The principal of these is the defile of the great river, where the enemy would find two or three passes of the river, that reach from one mountain to the other. In this place four or five hun died men would flop the moR numerous army, by only finking the bed of the waters. This resistance might be seconded by 25,0oo inhabitants, both white and black, who are feted in these valleys. As the white men are more numerous here than upon the richer lands, and their crops are smaller, they cannot afford to consume any great quantity of the produce of Europe, so that what they cultivate is chiefly for their own subsidence ; from this they might easily supply the troops that should defend their country. Any deficiency in the article of fresh meat, could be made up by the Spaniards, who breed vast quantities of cattle on the backs of these mountains. AFTER, all, it may happen that the firmness of the troops may be worn out by the want of provisions or war like stores, and they may be either forced or turned back. This suggested the idea some years ago at Versailles, of building a fortified town in the center of the mountains. Marshal Noailles was a warm advocate for this scheme. It was then imagined, that by means of some redoubts of earth, the enemy might be enticed by regular attacks, and insensibly exhausted by the loss of a great many mens in a climate where sickness desirous more than the sword. It was suggested that no more strongholds should be ere. ted on the frontiers, where they lie exposed to the in vision of the mailers of the sea, because while they are unable to defend their own habitations, they become so many bulwarks for the conquerors, who can easily take and guard them with their ships, and make a deposit, or,draw
draw from thence arms and men to keep the vanquished B o 0 K in awe. An entirely open country was better in their . opinion, for a power that has no maritime strength, than forces dispersed and forsaken upon shores wasted and de populated by the inclemency of the climate. IT was in the center of the island that the hopes of establishing a solid defence were conceived. A road of twenty or thirty leagues, full of obstacles; where every march would cost several fights, in which the advantage of the posts would render a detachment formidable to a whole army; where the removing of the artillery would be tedious and laborious ; where the difficulty of convoys, and the distance of communication with the ocean; where every thing, in short, would conspire to destroy the enemy: such was to be as it were the glacis of the intended fortification. This capital was to stand upon high ground, where the air is more pure and temperate than in the plains below; in the midst of a country which would supply the town with necessaries, particularly rice; surrounded with flocks and herds, which, feeding upon a soil most favourable to their increase, would be reserved for times of need; provided with store-houses proportioned to the town and garrison. Such a city would have changed the colony into a kingdom, able to support it self for a long time; whereas its present opulence does but weaken it, and having superfluities without necessaries, it enriches a few proprietors, without affording them sustenance IF the enemy had made themselves matters of the sea coast, which would not be disputed with them, and were desirous of collecting the produce, they would stand in need of whole armies to keep merely upon the defensive; for more than this, the continual excursions from the center would not permit them to do, The troops in the,inland
B O O K inland parts of the island, always sure of a refpcctable,retreat, might easily be relieved by recruits from Europe, which would find n, difficulty in penetrating to the center of a circle of so immense a circumference ; whereas all the English flees would not be sufficient to fill up the vacancies which the climate would be continually making in their garrisons. Notwithstanding the evidence of these advantages, the project of a mortification in the mountains has been dropt, and a stem pursued, which would confine the whole defence of the island to the mole of St. Nicholas. This new plan could not fail of being applauded by the planters, who do not like to see ramparts near their plan nations, as they do ten more mischief than they can do them good .hey are sensible, that the whole force being directed to one point, they should have none but light troops left in their neighbourhood on the three coasts, which are sufficient to drive away the privateers with their batteries, and are besides very convenient defenders, ever ready to yield without resistance, and to disperse or capitulate on the leaf intention of an invasion. THIS plan, so favourable to private interest, has also met with the approbation of some persons well versed in military affairs. They were of opinion, that the few troops which the colony will admit of, being in a man ner lost in so I urge an hand as St. Domingo, would make an appearance at the Mole. Bombardopolis is the place that has been cholr,h as the most respectable post. This new city finds on the margin of a plain, which is high enough to be cool. Its territory is covered with a na tural savannah, and adorned with groves of palm trees cf various kind. It is rot overlooked, which is an uncommon circumstance at ''. S !lingo. It might be made a regular place, and cl .: - rcigth. If it did net prevent an,invasion,
invasion, it would at least hinder the conquerors from o 0 K,XIII getting a firm establishment upon the coasts. IT were to be wished, say the statesmen, that from the first moment they begun the works at the Mole, they had at once fortified it to the degree that so advantageous a situation will admit of. It is a treasure, the possession of which hould have been secured as loon as it was disco vexed. Should this precious key of St. Domingo, and, in deed, of all America, fall into the hands of the English, which it may very possibly do on the breaking out of war, which cannot be far off, this Gibraltar of America, would be more fatal to France and Spain, than even that of Europe. IT is no wonder if all the precautions which have been taken hitherto for the defence of St. Domingo, have had so little solidity in them. As long as forecast and pro teAion shall be confined to secondary means, which can only protract, not prevent, the conquest of the island, no invariable plan can be pursued. Fixed principles are the charter of such powers as can depend upon their na val force, to prevent the loss of, or secure the recovery of their colonies. Those of France are not guarded by those floating arsenals, which can at the same time attack and de send. Their mother country is not yet possessed of such a navy as to make her formidable. But does she at least govern her possessions abroad by the maxims of found po lucy and good order? This is what we shall next inquire into. THE British government ever actuated by the nationalExam;na- spirit, which seldom deviates from the true interests ottii' of the,govl'r-. the state, has carried into the new world that right of pro met .a- party which is the ground work of her legislation. From bl;ll'c' i, a conviction, that man never thinks he fairly possesses any islands. thing but what he has lawfully acquired, they have, indeed, Iron. IlI. E e sold
B o OK sold the lands, but at a very moderate price to such as,were willing to clear them. This appeared to them the surest way to hasten the cultivation of the lands, and to prevent partialities and jealousies, the necessary consequences of a distribution guided by caprice or favour. Is the right FRANCE has taken a method seemingly more generous, of proper but not so prudent, that of granting lands to all who respected in the Inch applied for them. No regard was paid to their abilities or,ilds circumstances; the interest of their patrons determined the extent of the land they obtained. Indeed, it was stipulated that they should begin their settlements within a year after the grant, and not discontinue the clearing of the ground, upon pain of forfeiture. But besides the hardship of requiring those men to be at the expence of clearing the land, who could not afford to purchase, the penalty sell upon them only, who not having the ad vantage of family and fortune, could not make interest with the great ; or upon minors, who being left destitute by the death of their parents, ought rather to have been alighted by the public ; whereas every proprietor who was well recommended or supported, was not called to ac count, though he let his grounds lie fallow.,To this partiality, which evidently retarded the pro griefs of the colonies, we may add a number of ill-judged regulations relative to domestic life. Sirs, it was re quire of every person who obtained a grant of land, to plant 500 trenches of manioc for every shave he had upon his plantation. This order was equally detrimental both to private and public interest, as it compelled the planter to encumber his ground with this ordinary production, when it was able to bear richer crops, and rendered the poor grounds, which were only fit for this kind of cul ture, useless. This double fault could not but lesion the growth of all kinds of commodities and indeed this law,,which
which offered the disposal of property, has never been 00 K,XIII. stilly put in execution ; but as it has also never been repealed, it still remains a scourge in the hand of any ignorant capricious, or passionate minister, who may chuse to make use of it against the inhabitants. This evil, great as it is, is however the heals of their grievances. The restraint of the Agrarian laws is still increased by the bur den of the labours imposed upon the vassals. THERE was a time in Europe, that of the feudal go Government, when gold and silver had little or nothing to do with public or private barge ns. The nobles ferret the state, not with their purses, but with their persons; and thole of their vassals, who were their property by right ofconquef, 'paid them a kind of quit-rent or ho mage, either in the fruits of the earth or in so much la your. These customs, so defrutivc to men and lands, tended to perpetuate that barbarity to which they owed their rise. But at last they were dropped gradually, as the authority of kings prevailed in overthrowing the in dependence and tyranny of the great, by restoring free down to the people. The prince, now become the sole eager, abolished, as a magistrate, some abuses arising from the right of war, which destroys every other right. But several of there usurpations, which time had consecrated were fill retained. That of the average, or a certain proportion of labour required of the vassals, has been kept up in Come fates, where the nobles hayloft all, and the people have not acquired any advantageous. The liberty of France is at this day infringed by this public bondage, and this injustice has been methodized, as if to give it a colour of justice. The consequences of this horrid softens have been fill more severely felt in the colonies. The culture of these lands, from the nature of the climate, and of the productions, requiring expedition, cannot 2 
OO K easily spare a number of hands to be sent a great way . "T' off, and employed in public works, which are often useless, and hould never be carried on but by idle hands. If the mother country, with all the various means she can employ, has never yet been able to correct or mitigate the hardships of these services, (he ought to con finer what evils must result from them beyond the seas, where the direction of there works is committed to two overseers, who can neither be direaed,cenfured, nor con troubled, in the arbitrary exercise of absolute power. But the burden of these services is light, when compared with that of the taxes. Ate the A tax may be defined to be a contribution towards pub taxes pro hic expence, necessary for the preservation of private pro percy le vied n the party. The pea. able enjoyment of lands and revenues, French? requires a proper force to defend them from invasion, antea police that secures the liberty of improving them. Whatever is paid towards the maintenance of public order, is right and jut ; whatever is levied beyond this, is extortion. Now all the government expences, which the mother country is at for the colonies, are repaid her by the restraint laid upon them, to cultivate for her alone, arid in such a manner as is best adapted to her wants. This subjection is the most grievous of all tributes, and ought to exempt them from all other taxes. ANY one nmufl be convinced of this truth, who reflects on the difference of situation between the old world and the new. In Europe, subsistence and hinc consumption are the principal object of culture and of manufactures; exportation only carries off the overplus. In the islands, the whole is to be exported. There, subsistence and pro party are alike precariousness Europe, war only deprives the manufacturer and the husbandman of their foreign trade the business flill,gocj
goes on at home. In the islands, hostilities annihilate B 0 0 K,XIII. every thing, there are no more falls, no more bargains, X no more circulation; the planter hardly recovers his cods. IN Europe, the owner of a small fate, who can afford to lay out but little, improves his land as much in pro portion as he that has a wide domain and immense treasures In the islands, the improvement of the smaller plantation requires a pretty good flock to begin with. IN Europe, it is commonly one citizen that is indebted to another: and the state is not impoverished by these private debts. Those of the islands are of a different nature. Many planters, in order to carry on the labour of clearing their grounds, and to repair the loses incurred by the misfortunes of war, which had put a stop to their ex ports, have been obliged to borrow such large fume, that they may be considered rather as farming the trade, than as proprietors of the plantations. WHETHER these reflections have not occurred to the French ministry, or whether particular circumstances have obliged them to depart from their plan, certain it is they have added fresh taxes to the obligation already laid on the colonies to draw all their necessaries fi-om France, and to send thither all their own commodities. Every negro has been taxed. In fume settlements, this poll tax has been confined to the working blacks, in others it was laid on all the saves without distinCtion. Both there ar arrangements have been opposed by the colony assembled at St. Domingo: let us now judge of the force of their ar moments. CHILDREN, old and infirm men make up about one third of the flares. Far from being useful to the planter, one of them are only a dead weight, which humanity alone can prompt him to support, while the reste e 3 can
B O O K can afford him but distant and uncertain hopes. It is XIII, hard to conceive how the treasury sound have thought of,taxing an object that is already chargeable to the owner. THE poll tax upon blacks extends beyond the grave; that is to say, it is fixed upon a person who exists no more. Suppose a slave dies after the assessment has been made, the master must go on paving the tax, though he is al ready a great loser by the death of his black, who was a part of his property, and whose labour was a part of his income.,EvrEN the working flares are not an exact tariff of the appraisement of a planter's income. With a few negroes, a good soil will yield more than a poor one will with a great many. The commodities are not all of the same value, tho' they are all procured by the labour of those per sons upon whom the tax is equally laid. The changing from one kind of culture to another, which the ground requires, suspends for a while the produce of labour. Droughts, inundations, fires, devouring innes, often destroy the fruit of labour. Suppose all things alike, a lesser number of hands makes in prop rticn a lesser quantity of sugar; either because the whole of the wants nut be taken into consideration, o because labour is truly pro duaive only so far as it can icize the most favourable op opportunities. THE poll tax upon blacks becomes a more intolerable grievance frill in time of war. A planter who cannot then dispose of his commodities, and must run in debt to support mimics and to keep ti h land, is further obliged to pay a tax for slaves who: Ibour will hardly be equi valent to their maintenance. Nay he is often constrained to send them far from his plantation, for the imaginary wants of the colony, to feed them there at his own ex pence, znd to fe tones fcr:ifi, vwhiit he is under the,cruel
cruel necessity of-replacing them one time or other, ifB 0 0 K ever he means to retrieve his wasted and finking lands. i T'HI burden of the poll tax lay still heavier upon such of the proprietors as were absent from the colony, for there were condemned to pay the tax treble, which was the more unjust, as it was a matter of indifference to France whether her commodities were consumed at home or in the islands. It could not surely be her intention to hinder the emigration of the colonists. It is only by the mildness of the government that citizens can be fixed in a country, not by prohibitions and penalties. Besides, men who by hazardous labours carried on in a sultry climate had contributed to the public prosperity!, ought to have ben indulged in the liberty of ending their days in the temperate regions of the mother country. Nothing could more effectually rouze the ambition and activity of numbers of idle people, than to be spectators of their for tune, and the state might thus get rid of these useless men to the profit of industry and commerce. Nothing can be more detrimental to both than this tax ing of the blacks, as the necessity of selling obliges the planter to lower the price of his goods. Selling cheap can never be an advantage, but when it is the result of great plenty, and of a very brisk circulation. But a man is ruined if he muftconftantly carry on a losing trade, in order to pay taxes. Trade is destroyed by the absorbing channels of the treasury, which is alma s receiving, but never returns any thing. LASTLY it is a very difficult matter to levy this tax. Every proprietor must give in an annual account of the number of his slaves. To prevent false entries, they must be verified by clerks or excisemen. Every negro that is not entered hould be forfeited; which would be a very absurd practice, because every labouring nero is so,I1. e 4 much
B o O K much flock, and by seizing him, you diminish the cul,. ,ture, and annihilate the very object for which the duty,was laid. So it is that in the colonies, where nothing can prosper without a profound tranquility, a destructive war is carried on between the finance and the planter. Law-suits are numerous, rem-vals frequent, rigorous measures become necessary, and the costs are great and ruinous. IF the negro tax is unjust in its extent, unequal in its repartition, and complicate in the mode of levying it; thetax laid upon the commodities that are carried out of the colo nies, is nearly as injudicious. The government ventured to do it from a persuasion that this duty would fall entirely upon the consumer and the merchant; but there cannot be a more dangerous error in political oeconomy, than this is.,THE at of conferring does not supply money to buy what is consumed; this must be gained by labour; and all labour, if things are traced up to their origin, is in fact paid by the firs proprietor out of the produce of the earth. This being the calc, no one article can be al ways growing dearer, bt all the rest must rise in pro portion. In this situation, there is no profit to be made upon any of them. If this equilibrium between the ar titles of commerce be removed, the consumption of the advanced article will incrcalc, and if it decrease, the price will fall of course, and the dearness will hate been only transient. THE merchant can no ire te the duty upon hin than the consumer. He may, indeed, advance it once or twice, but if he cannot make a natural and necessary profit upon the commodities o taxed, he will on drop :hat branch of trade. To hope that competition will force him to tale the payment: cf the duty out of his pro-sits,
fits, is to suppose that his profits were exorbitant, and B O O K,XIII. that the competition which was then insufficient, will " o grow brisker when the profits are less. If on the other hand, things were as they ought to be, and the profits no more than necessary, it is supposing that the competition will subsist, though the profits that gave rise to it subsist no longer. We must admit all there absurdities, or al low that it is the planter in the islands who pays the duty, whether it be levied from the first, second, or hundredth hand. FAR from thus burthening the cultivation of the colo nies with taxes, it ought to be encouraged by liberalities, since by the state of prohibition in which their trade is kept, there liberalities, with all the fruits of them, must of necessity return to the mother-country. IF the situation of a ate that is involved by losses or mismanagement, will not admit of liberalities, or eating the subjects of their burthens, the payment of the taxes in colonies themselves might, at least, be suppressed, and the produce of them levied at home. This would be the next belt system that could be pursued, and would be equally agreeable to the two worlds. NOTHING is o pleating to an American, as to remove from his fight every thing that denotes his dependence. Wearied with the importunities of collectors, he abhors a anding tax, and dreads the increase of them. He seeks in vain for that liberty which he thought to have found at the distance of two thousand leagues from Eu rope. He spurns at a yoke which purples him through the storms of the ocean. Discontent and inwardly re pining at the restraint he still feels, he thinks with indignation on his native country, which, by the name of mother, calls for his blood instead of feeding him. Re move the image of his chains from his fight; let ostriches
0 0 K riches pay their tribute to the mother-country only at » } ' landing there, and he will fancy himself free and privileged; though at the same time by lowering the value cf his own commodities, and enhancing the price of those that come from Europe, he, in sac, ultimately bears th: load of a tax of which he is ignorant. NAVIGATORS w ll also find an advantage in paying duty only upon goods that have reached the place of their definition in their full value and without any risque, and will restore the capita! f their flock along with the profits. They will not then have the mortification of having purchased of the prince the very hazards of ship wreck, and of losing a cargo for which they had paid duty at embarking. Their ships, on the contrary, will bring back in goods the amount of the duty, and the productions being advanced in value about twenty-one per cent. by exportation, the duty will hardly be felt. LASTLY, the consumer himself will be a gainer by it, because the colonist and the merchant cannot benefit by any regulation, of which in time he will not feel the good effects. All the taxes will no sooner be reduced to a single one, but trade will be clogged with fewer forma cities, fewer delays, fewer charges, and consequently the goods can be afforded at a cheaper rate eves the slate itself might find a considerable political advantage in this. Bv this new arrangement, there would be such a thing as a country, in outward appear ance exempt from all taxes, and enjoying absolute fran chide. Such an event would be the more striking, at a time when the English colonies groan under the burthen of fresh taxes. The contrast would aggravate their sus springs; their murmurs and their boldness would know no bounds ; they would learn to place some confidence Ln a government which the have hitherto accused oi,being
being tyrannical; and in case of a revolt in North-B 0 O K America, that vast region would be less afraid of putting XI . itself under the protection of France. THIS system of moderation, which every thing seems to point out as the fittest, will be easily introduced. All the productions of the islands are subject, at their entry into the kingdom, to the name of Domaine accident, or western domain, which is fixed at three and a half per cent. With two fols(.t) per livre. Their value, which is the rule for the payment of the duty, is determined in the months of January and July. It is fixed at twenty or five and twenty per cent. below the real course. The western office allows besides a more considerable tare than the feller in trade does. Add to this duty, that which the commodities pay at the custom-houses of the colonies, which brings in much the same, and those that are paid in the inland parts of the islands, and we shall have the whole of the revenue which the government draws from the settlements in America. IF this fund was confounded with the other revenues of the state, we might be apprehensive that it was not applied to its destination, which should be solely the protection of the islands. The unforeseen exigencies of the royal treasury would infallibly divert it into another channel. There are some moments when the critical flame of the disease will not admit of calculating the inconveniences of the remedy. The most urgent necessity engross the attention. Nothing then is safe from the gripe of arbitrary power, urged by the wants of the present moment. The ministry takes and continues emptying, in hopes of replacing shortly, but there hopes are always baffled by fresh wants. HENCE it appears that it would be highly necessary that the chest destined for the duties on the productions of the,co- (/) A penny,
B o 0 K colonies, should be quite separate from the revenues ot XIII.,.the kingdom. The monies deposited there would al ways be ready to answer the demands of those settlement. The colonist who always has stock to send over to Fu rope, would gladly give it for bills of exchange, when he was once assured that they would meet with no iL;.vs or difficulties. This kind of bank would soon crete a new tie and fresh correspondence between the mrnthr- country and the islands; the court o, ld be better ac quaint with the sate of their firs in these dift.:n coteries and would recover the credit they' have long fine lost, but which is of the utmost consequence, especially in time of war. We shall now put an end t our discussions on taxes, and pass on to what concerns the militia. Is the i- THE French island', like those of other nations, had l!eua,; ' no regular troops at sirs. The adventurers, who had relater in the conquered them, took a pride in defending themselves, rench,.s and the descendents of those intrepid men thought them-selves strong enough to guard their own possessions. They had nothing, indeed, to do but to repulse a few vessels, which came and landed some sailors and soldiers, as un disciplined as themselves. THINGS are now, and, indeed, must have undergone an alteration. As these settlements became more con miserable, it was to be expected that they would sooner or later be attacked by European fleets and armies, and this made it necessary to send them other defenders. The event has hewn the insufficiency of a few scattered battalions, to mike head against the land and ea forces of England. The colonists themselves have been con. vinlccd that their ov.wn efforts could never prevent a revolution and fearing that a fruitless resistance would only exasperate the enemy, they were more inclined to capituli;
tulate than to fight. Having become political calculators B O O K they felt themselves unfit for military operations, and . paid their money to be discharged from a service, which, though glorious in its principle, had degenerated into a burdensome servitude. The militia was suppressed in 1764. THIS a of compliance has been applauded by those who only considered this inflitution as the means cf pre serving the colonies from all foreign invasions. They imagined very judiciously that it was unreasonable to re quire that men, who were grown old und r the hardships of a scorching climate, in order to raise a large fortune, should expose themselves to the same dangers as to those poor visits of our ambition who are perpetually hazard ing their lives for five pence a day. Such a sacrifice has appeared unnatural, and the ministry who gave up so rain and burthensome a defence have been applauded by some. OTHERS, who are better acquainted with the American settlements, have not judged so favourably of this innovation. The militia, say they, is necessary to pre serve the interior police of the islands, to prevent the revolt of the slaves, to check the incursions of the fugitive negroes, to hinder the banditti from assembling in troops, to protect the navigation along the coasts, and to keep off the corsairs. If the inhabitants are not em bodied, if they have neither commanders nor standards, which of them will march to the assistance of his neigh hours ? There is no one to warn him of his danger, no one to command him; and that harmony and uniformity of aion, without which nothing is done properly, will totally be interrupted. THESE reflections, which, though firing and na tural, had at first escaped the court of Veifailcls, have,quickly
B O K quickly made her retract. They restored the militia safer than they had abolished it. As early as the year 1766, the Leeward islands submitted to it without any great resistance, though an opposition might have been expelled from the continuance of the new taxes, when their objet no longer subsisted. St. Domingo warmly ex populated against this abuse of an authority, which was too hasty and too fickle, not to excite murmuring. A philosophical administrator, who was eye witness to the opposition which the re-establishment of a forced mi litia met with from the inhabitants of St. Domingo, proposed to make it voluntary. He made no doubt but that the prospect of glory or fortune would have induced half the colony, whose example would have influenced the other half, to solicit as an honour what they abhorred as a yoke. But this expedient, ingenious as it was, and effectual as it would have been, was im proper, because it would have asserted that uniformity which ought to subsist between islands that are under the same government. Such a divination would have laid the foundation of jealousies and divisions, which vould,fooner or later, have proved fatal to the colonies, if not to the mother country itself. Without any of there political artifices, the people of St. Domingo have resumed the military service. In deed it has been with reluctance, founded upon grievances which cannot be too loon redressed. It is well-known, that a militia is a great restraint upon civil liberty, which they are more jealous of in the colonies than we are in Europe, where we hear of nothing but authority. Exposes the citizen to numberless vexations. The evils it has occasioned have stamped a sense of horror for this kind of servitude, which none can wonder at but tyrants or slaves. The business is, if possible, to eradicate the im-,prefflons
pressions of the past, and remove all mistrust for the fur B 00 K,XIII. ture.' The condescension and moderation of government !nus put an end to the apprehensions of the colonies, by making all those alterations in the form of the militia, which are consistent with its object, which is to maintain public order and safety. The welfare of the people is the great end of all authority. If the actions of the so foreign do not tend to this point, he will only. live upon money and records, soon worn out by time, and despised posterity. In vain does flattery raise superb and nu serous monuments to princes; the hand of man erect them, but it is the heart that consecrates them, and as season that makes them immortal. Without this, pub hic homage is only a proof of the meanness of the people not of the greatness of the ruler. There is one statue in Paris, the fight of which makes every heart exult with sentiments of affection. Every eye is turned with complacency towards that image of paternal and popular kindness. The silent tears of the oppressed call upon it, secretly bless the hero it immortalizes. All voices join to celebrate his memory after two centuries are elapsed. His name is in veneration to the uttermost parts of America In every heart he protests against the abuses of au authority ; declares against the usurpations of the rights of the people; he promises the subject the redress of their grievances, and an increase of prosperity, and demands both of the ministry. Is tie re. IT is scarce credible, that a law, seemingly dictated elation of by nature; a law which occurs instantly to every juitpherice and good man; which leaves no doubt in the mind as petted in to its rectitude and utility; it is scarce credible that such with ends? a law should sometimes be prejudicial to the maintenance of our societies, flop the progress of colonies, divest them from the end of their destination, and gradually,pave
B O O K pave the way to their ruin. Strange as it may seem this law is no other than the equal division of eltates,among children or co-heirs. This law, so consonant nature, should be abolished in America.,THIS division was necessary at the firs formation of co ionics. Immense trans of lands were to be cleared. This could not be done without people, nor could men who had quitted their own country for want, be any other wise fixed in those distant and desert regions, than by as signing them a property. Had the government refused to grant them lands, they would have wandered about from place to place, with the disappointment of beginning numberless settlements, and bringing none to bear, so as to be beneficial to the mother country. BUT since inheritances, too extensive at first, have in process of time been reduced by a scries of successions, and by the sub-divisions of shares, to such a compass as renders them fit to facilitate cultivation ; since they have been so limited as not to lie fallow for want of hands pro personable to their extent, a further division of lands would bring them again to nothing. In Europe, an ob cure man who has but a few acres of land, will make that little estate go farther in proportion, than an opulent man will the immense property he is possessed of, either by inheritance or chance. In America, the nature of the productions, which are very valuable, the uncertainty of the crops, which are but of few kinds, the quantity of slaves, of cattle, of utensils necessary for a planta tion, all this requires a large flock, which they have not in some, and will soon not have in any colonies, if the lands are parcelled out and divided more and more by hereditary fuccefions.,IF
IF a father leaves an estate of 30,000 livres () a year, B o O K and this estate is equally divided between three children, XII. they will all be ruined if they make three distinct planta tions; the one, because he has been made to pay dear for the buildings, and because he has too few negroes and too little land in proportion; the other two, because they must build before they can begin upon the culture of their land. They will all be equally ruined, if the whole plantation remains in the hands of one of the three. In a country where a creditor is in a worse slate than any other man, estates have risen to a immoderate value. The pofifteor of the whole, will be very fortunate if he is obliged to pay no more for interest than the net produce of the plantation. Now, as the primary law of our nature is, the procuring of subsistence, he will begin by living with out paying. His debts will accumulate, he will soon become insolent, and the confusion consequent upon such a situ action, will end in the ruin of the whole family. THE only way to remedy there disorders, is to abolish inequality of divisions. In this enlightened age we should fee the necessity of letting the colonies be more stocked with things than with men. The wisdom of the legislature will, doubtless, contrive some method of providing for those who will be stript, and in some measure sacrificed to the welfare of the community. They ought to be placed upon fresh lands, and to subsist by their own labour. This is the only way to maintain this fort of men, and their indiltrv would open a fiefs source of wealth to the state. Ar the conclusion of the peace a favourable opportunity assessed iiFelf, for m: king the proposed alteration in St. Lui and Guiana. The French ought not to have i:rlci!-'! this opportunity to repeal the law relating to I;' ifioI, Iby d;;l diluting to thong v.iolfe expeditions they V'-., 1. F f hades.) t: ! I ,,
B O O K had frustrated, such lands as they intended for culture. XIII.,The immense films that have been thrown away upon these lands to no purpose, would have been much better bestowed in enabling there people to clear and cultivate them. Men inured to the climate, acquainted with the only kind of culture that could possibly be thought of, encouraged by the example, alliance, and advice of their own fa mimics, and aided by the slaves with which government would have supplied them, were much fitter for this pur pose than a set of profligate men, collected from the very finks of Europe, and much more likely to raise the new colonies to that pitch of wealth and prosperity which might be expected. Unfortunately we were not aware, that the first colonies in America mull have increased by flow degrees and of themselves, with the loss of a great many men, or by extraordinary exertions of bravery and patience, because the) had no competition to support; but the succeeding settlements can only be formed in the wav of generation, as an old swarm begets a new one. The overflowing of population in one island must spread into another, and the superfluities of a rich colony furnish ne necessaries to an infant settlement. This is the natural or der which good policy points out to maritime and com mercia powers. All other methods are irrational and definitive. Though the court of Versailles has over looked this plain principle, productive of so much good that is no reason why they should reject the proposal oi putting a stop to the farther division of lands. If the ne effigy of such a law is evident, it must be enaacl, though the present period be less favourable than that which hath been neglected. When the decay of the plan nations is repaired, by suppressing that parcelling of lands which cuts off all the springs of increase, we may then,comped
compel them to clear themselves of the debts with which B 0 0 K,XII'. they are now oppressed. THE French islands, like all others in America, can Has the only be cultivated by blacks. Their climate lays themis parents tinder a necessity of purchasing labourers. To procure traced in,the French them, they must have capitals, and the first inhabitants illandsbeen had none. They raised them by trade, which thereforejudicioufly,. provided gave there valuable settlements their sires existence. This por o kind of assistance, which, perhaps, has been since too easily granted, has involved them in debts, which have increased as they have proceeded in clearing a greater ex tent of land.,IHIE equality of partition between the several heirs, has raised up creditors within the colonies, as there were already without. As the colonies grew richer, their credit increased in proportion to the multiplicity of divi sons. When the population increased to rich a degree that the number of colchis exceeded that of plantations, the superfluous numbers then remaining unemployed be came creditors to estates they did not occupy, and were therefore not only useless but even brthenfomc to cultivation XWe have just pointed out a way to prevent the nc reality of this credit within the islands ; but in what man ner hall the debts contracted abroad be discharged ? WE are told that the planters hould spend but a part of their income, and reserve the rest for the fulfilling of their engagements. But it is not considered that those who could afford to make there savings, arejuft the very people that owe nothing; whereas the debtors have such a scanty income, that they cannot possibly save any thing. Betides, nothing would be more unreasonable than to introduce this system of oeconomy into the co ionics. As the value of their produce is entirely owing to exchange, and that in this case the exchange would beef f in
B 0 0 K in a manner annihilated, because it would be confined to,TI Y "-cheap articles of mere necessity i the Americans would either be obliged to raise but few of their own commo cities, or to give them for nothing. Should the mother country be willing to make up in mciey the deficiencies in the sale of their merchandise, then all the gold that is drawn from one part of America would return to the other. There is a power, known by the superiority of its naval force, which, after ten years of such a trade, would be sure of finding in these islands a compensation for any war it might undertake; and it would be highly impolitic for France to invite that power to attack her settlements abroad. Traders are no less interested than the government in the perpetuity of debts. The colonies were first established upon credit. When the first cultivators had cleared themselves, the loan has been renewed to their successors; and the present possessors still enjoy the same benefit. If they were compelled to pay off this loan, it might soon be done, but culture would sussex by it; and though it might nor, possibly, degenerate, yet it would nevertheless be deprived of the first fruits of virgin lands, which are always most fertile. Traders would then find fewer commodities to buy in the islands; they would have no demand for slaves, utensils, and all other articles necessary for new settlements, and which are alios as considerable as those which are requisite for the wants or luxury of the fettled plantations. In process of time their transactions would be still more reduced. It is well known how reluctantly they see the rich planter accustom himself to send his own productions to Europe, to fetch his own consumption from thence, and reduce his agents to the bare prjr.ts of co;-rr.i;,io. If that dependence, high is a necessary cscnfq'.crc of debts, should ceaf¢,,it
it would no longer be a few planters, but the whole co B O O K,XIII. tony, that would make their own purchases and salis in., the mother-country : they would all become traders, and even would f lo have no competitors, because they alone would be acquainted with the measure of their own wants. CREDIT therefore is evidently the bass of all useful connexions between the merchants of France and her co ionics ; and to restore their flock, would be in effect to deprive them of their profits. Unreasonably have they complained for these forty years palt, that they are absolutely ruined by the delays they experience in the pay ments; the fortunes that have been made in the ports of France by their intercourse with the idnds, are a proof of the injustice of these complaints. HOWEVER, political utility, or even the necessity of the colony's being in debt to the mother country, can by no means cancel the obligation every private man is under to fulfil his engagements. Though evil may be the effect, fie quietly even the cause of good, yet the man who commits it cannot on that account beautified or excused. t is a mat terms indifference, whether a certain mass of wealth is in such or such hands ; bt it can never be conducive to the public welfare that any man should think himself at liberty not to pay his debts. The treasury itself, if it is under any engagements, must clear itself by the means and rules of justice. A public bankruptcy of the slate is a scandalous thing, fill more prejudicial to the morals of society than to the fortunes of individuals. A time will come, when all there iniquities stall be summoned before the tribunal of nations, and that the power which has committed them shall be judged by its viims. The debts of America, therefore, ought to be paid, but it mull be done imper ceptibly, and nor hy hidden or violent measures. Whilst f 3 the
B O O K the old debts are paving off, new ones will be contracted, XIII.,which will perpetuate as it were that chain of dependence that links the fortunes of Europe with those of the co ionics. It is by judicial means that the creditors of the trade of the islands are to be satisfied. True justice is ever uniform in itself; its favours and punishments are equally shewn to all. If the execution of it is committed to the arbitrary will of those who govern, as it has hitherto been in the colonies, it necessarily degenerates into tyranny. It is oftentimes a hardship upon debtors, who are com pellet to fail in the most sacred engagements, in order to fulfil the most trifling, and to sacrifice part of their in come, and sometimes of their flock, by sales made at an improper season, and without any of the proper forms. It is often unjutl for he creditors themselves. It is neither theol deft, nor he that has rnoti right, nor yt lie that wants it moil, who is first paid: it is the most power ful, the best patronized, the most active, the inst violent whereas the law only ought to decide that law which, in the colonies, allows of the ac tuas seizure of the plantations, i impracticable. A proof of it, is, that no man has ever yet had recourse to i, though there have always ben honest debtors in the islands, and clamorous creditors, who would not hc neglected this mode of recovery if it could ha,.c ben: pursued with successive method of personal figure, which Tome here proposed to substitute to the figure of :,d, and chlt:d, would net be more cficftui!. It would be ro cafe matter to arrest a planter surrounded v-;th a multitude of slaves, upon a p:nt3'ion finding by itsic"s. His imprisonment would prose as ruinous to his creditors as to himself. His negroes would row riotous in his abfcce ; they would do no work, but would go and plunder the,lSiC'5'1.
neighbouring plantations. But might not the negroes of B 0 K,Xll. a debtor be seized and sold ? Then the slaves who should cease to work upon one plantation would be employed upon another, and the colony be no loser. THIS expedient is only a specious one, and we must know but little of the character of the negroes, to trust to it. They are kind of machines, not calmly wound up, and not tn be removed with safety to a fresh manu facere. A change of place, of malter, of method, of employment, requires the contracting of fresh habits, and such an exertion as there miserable creatures are hard i,' capable of, who are already miserable under the ne reality of hard labour, which ill suits their voluptuous disposition. They cannot live without their mistresses and their children, which are their dearest comforts, and the only thing that makes them endure life. Separated from this only solace to their woes, they pine away and sicken, and frequently desert, or at least they work but with re licence and carelessness. BESIDEs it would be no easy matter to seize upon those blacks. Fifty, a hundred, or two hundred slaves would not tamely sussex themselves to he thrown in chains by a few bailiffs; and they would soon disperse, if any at tempt hould be made to enter the plantation by force. If one hould endeavour to seize them in the towns where they go to sell their goods, they would soon keep away, and a scarcity of provisions would be the con fierce of almost universal desertion. SUPPOSE all these difficulties could be removed, this expedient would sill be improper, because in securing the payment of one creditor, it would ruin many others. The smallest sugar plantations employ sixty or seventy slaves upon the belt lands, and fourscore or a hundred where the ground is but indifferent. The number can-,F f 4 not
B O 0 K not be Lessened without putting a stop to the tillage. T:, x , seizing of fifteen or twelve blacks, is enough to ruin plantation, and to destroy an important culture, to mnaie a capital of fifty or hundred thousand crowns (r) liedcrd, and a skilful planter quite insolvent. It wil be fas, perhaps, that the owner being forced to sell, the pur chafer would reinstate the plantation; but it is wvcil known that there are no such monied men on the islands a; to pay ready money; that all purchases are made upon a very long credit, and even with a tacit expectation of obtaining further delays. Take away this credit, aln there will not be a single purchaser to be found. No planters surely would be so rash as to venture upon a considerable undertaking, with a prope of certain ruin, in case fortune and the elements hould not fa your his endeavours, so as to make good his engagements to a day. The dread of want and infamy will become general, and then there will be no more borrowing, no more business, no more circulation, no more activity. Credit will be destroyed by the very system that was meant to restore it. These are no imaginary fears; they are but too well justified by the deplorable events of the year 1 75. At that memorable a:'d unfortunate period for St. Domingo, a permission was extorted from the government to seize the negroes for the planter's debts. The first executions of this kind, though unlucccfbfui, fprecJ terror and consternation throughout the colony. The nation was inconceivable, and all was tending to ruin. The merchants who had solicited this odious law, thought tncmr.ivesc very happy that they could obtain the real Och t. No expedient therefore has been found out for the fe purity of creditors, but what is prejudicing to the prof-,r sty (r) Fro. :.t:C' 7e c ? ard: ,f I3, cc
purity of the colonies, and conicq.ien.tly 'to that of the B o K monarchy. Yet the secret springs of politics must certainly afford some means to rcclmnile the interests of in individuals with those of the public, and it is the business of ftatcfincn to find them out. 'I his law of equity will be approves, even by those who are sufferers from it, if it is introduced by reasonable methods, the only ones, perhaps, that should be employed with civilized men, at leal the easiest and the falfci. A planter acquainted with the course of public business, will be sensible that the facility of not paying bccomics burdensome to hin from the impossibility of finding credit, but upon such terms as will balance the risque of lending. whether he seeks it to increase or to preserve his flock, he will ob tain none but to his ruin. His situation is the feme as that of minors, who can n:cr borrow but upon hard terms of usurers accuiomcd to indemnify themselves be forehand for the delays and for the hazards they run. BUT if the planter is not to be brought to a sense of his duty by motives of interest; if it is dangerous to have recourse to convulsive methods, why should not the le gihlature try what may be done upon ths principe l of ho your, which is a mor powerful motive in monarchies, as it is the ground-work and bring cf their constitution. Is not opinion as coercive as force Stamp but a mark o` infamy upon the fraudulent debtor, declare that he has forfeited all the distinctions he enjoyed, render him in capable of ever exercising any public fusion, and wc need not apprehend that he will sport with a law of this frt. But then the tribunals of justice must in this respect be those of honour. Let the defaulter be tried and condemned with the several forms-which make ail cher laws sacred. The most rapacious of men, and cf specially the Air.cric.n plenty, febris. a pe.; :f their,lI'Z;
B O O K lives to hard labour, with no other view, than to enjoy their fortune. But there is no enjoyment for a man who is branded with infamy. Observe only how punctually all debts of honour are paid. It is not an excess of d- licacv, it is not the love of juitlcc, that brings back the ruined gamester within four and twenty hours to the feet of his creditor, who, perhaps, is no better than a sharper. It is the sense of honour; it is the dread of being ex eluded from society. The most interested man aims at enjoyment, and none can be obtained without honour but in what age, at what period, do we here invoke the sacred name of honour ? Should not the government set the example of that justice, the practice of which it means to inculcate ? Is it possible that public opinion should disgrace individuals for lions which the slate openly commits ? When infamy has crept into families, into great houses, into the highest places, even into the camp and the sanctuary; can there be any sense of shame remaining What man will henceforth be jealous of his honour, while those who are called men of honour, know of no other than that of being rich to get places, or of getting places to grow rich ; when a man must cringe in order to rise ; please the great and the women to serve the f:.te; and when the gifts of pleasing imply at leaf an indifference for every virtue ? Shall honour, which seems to be banished from some parts of Europe, go and take refuge in America? Why should this be despaired of, be fore it has been tried If the experiment should not an fewer, the debtors who should refuse to pay their debts, sould be treated in the French islands, as they are in those that are subject to England and Holland. T he three nations have alike concentrated the connections or their American settlements in the mother countryseat
ALL the colonies have not had the same origin. Some 1, O O K,XIII. took their rise from the restless spirit of some tribes of barbarians, who having long wandered through desert Has the countries, fixed at last, from mere weariness, in any y lier country where they might form a nation. Other people compelling the islands driven out of their own territory by fume powerful t deliver enemy, or allured by chance to a better climate than theirpro-,due only their own, have removed thither, and shared the lands to herself, with the natives. An excess of population, an abhor-fufficiently,secured the hence for tyranny, factions and revolutions have induced exportation other citizens to quit their native country, and to go and o01 often? build new cities in foreign climes. The spirit of con quest made some soldiers fettle in the countries they had subdued, to secure the property of them to themselves. None of there colonies were firs formed with a view to trade. Even those that were founded by Tyre, Carthage, and Marseilles, which wre all commercial republics, were only meant for necessary retreats upon barbarous coasts, and for marts, where ships that were come from different ports, and tired with a long voyage, reciprocally made their exchanges. THE conquest of America gave the Europeans the first idea of a new kind of settlement, the basis of which is agriculture. The governments that founded those co ionics, chose that such of their fi,'hecis as they Int thither hould not have it in their power to confine any thing but what they drew from the mother country, or to fellthe produce of their lands but to the mother country. This double obligation has appeared to all nations to be consonant to the law of nature, independent of all con mentions, and self-evident. They have not looked upon an exclusive intercourse with their own colonies as an im moderate compensation for the expences of settling and,pre-
I O K preserving thick. This has constantly been the f)flern of, Europe relate e to Amerira.,FR.A'CE had never yet departed front it; when a man of genius, noted for the extent of his ideas, and the energy o his expressions, attempted to mitigate the ie verity of this principle. He alledged that to allow the importation of such foreign rods as cannot easily! be had from France, and at an extravagant price, was i( realty a prosperity in the colonies, which nuit poorer or later s'.ow back to the original country, to which they wil send more commodities, and lord a brisker file for their own produce. This opinion spread a universal alarm in all the ports of the kingdom. They exclaimed that this competition was an infringement of the most sacred rights of the slate, and would dry up the principal sources of its wealth this circumstance has been the fubjcc of much alter cation; but it has not been considered in its most important light. The disputants, and the public by whom they were judged, only attending to the interests of culture and commerce, lost fight of the grand political objet, which is the preservation of the colonies. The truth is, that we should run the rifqtic cf losing them, if foreign ships were admitted into their harbours.,AzorE a century ago, England laid the foundations cf an irmm-ene empire in the val v.iids of North America which went on but flosyIv at first, but row makes z div rapid promises. Its power, long curbed by an enemy ever upon the watch:, and ever ready to attack its back fettlienses, has nothing now that can refrain it, since the acquir:On of Canada and of the mod valuable partofLoui:iana. This peep?, dcivecred by these conquests f-nm all 1unea1:nes cn the side of the continent, na one :*.ne o .: -: cr-nmr':d to turn thir airb:tirou vice to-,i;'rJi
yards the neighbouring islands. Even now, they want 0 K nothing to pursue the stream of their prosperities, but a I population adequate to the extent of their territory. Amongst the causes which may promote this population, none would be more likely to hasten it, than a anding intercourse with e French colonies, which being in want of the very articles that North America affords, would, by purchasing their productions, enable them to raise more, and to augment their tireJigth. No doubt the court of Ve aisles is too well informed to sacrifice the safety of the islands to the accessary advantage that might accrue from a free trade for a few trifling olijcfs. BUT if on the one hand it is incumbent on us to cut ors from our rivals this road to wealth, and of course to coln- qu-el, on the other hand it is necessary to take care that our islanders hall never want a market to dispose of all tlcir commodities. The colonies can spare us yearly, besides what they keep for their own consumption, a hun died thousand casks of monastic and rum, worth about five millions of livres.(j) By an ill-judged fefilhncfs, we have deprived them and ourselves of this benefit, for fear of hurting the sale of our own brandies. The spirits drawn from fuar,- always inferior to those extracted from wine, can only be for the use of poor nations, or of the lower frt in the rich ones. They will sneer be preferred to any but malt Filius, and these are not di filled in France. There will always be a demand for ours, even in the island,, fr the use of that class o rec: .who can afford to pay fer them. The government, therefore can never too fun retrace so unjust and so fatal an error, and ought to admit n:olafes and rum into our forts, to be cfumincd these, or wherever c llt they may l= wanted. Nctlin g would-ore cx:c::' thc:.- c::filmp- toll than to at'-.orize french naia.:c: : carr thrn,dl- *- '" " d;-"
B O O K directly to the foreign markets. T his favour ought eve XIII,to be extended to the whole produce of the colonies. A an opinion that clashes with ou many interests and so man prejudices, may charge to be contested, it will be prope to unfold its principles. THE French islands furnish the mother-country with sugars, coffee, cotton, indigo, and other commodities that are partly consumed at home, and partly disposed c in foreign countries, which send us in exchange either money, or other articles we are in want of. These sam islands receive in return from the mother-country cloaths provisions, and instruments of husbandry. Such is th twofold destination of the colonies. In order to fulfil it, they muff be rich. In order to be rich, they nul grow large crops, and be able to dispose of them at th best price: and that they may fetch the best price, th sale of them muff be as bris as possible. To obtain this, it muff be made entirely free. In order to mak it as free as possible, it must be clogged with n, formalities, no expences, no labours no needless incur branches. These truths, demonstrated by their close con neaion wil each other, muff determine whether it advantageous that the trade of the colonies should b subjected to the delays and expences of a staple ii France.,THESE intermediate exc;-ices muff necessarily fall either upon the consumer or upon the planter. If upon the former, he will consume lads, because his means d, not increase in proportion to his expences; if upon th latter, as his produce brings in less, he will be less abs to make the necessary advances for the next crop, and o course his lands will yield less. The evident progress o these destructive consequences is so little attended to that every day we hear people confidently say, that merchandise
chastise, before it is confirmed, muff pass through B 0 0 K,XIII. many hands, and undergo many charges, both for handicraft and carriage, and that as there charges employ and maintain a number of persons, they are conducive to the population and strength of a state. Men are so blind ed by prejudice, as not to see that if it is advantageous that commodities, before the), are consumed, hould un tergo a twofold expence; this advantage will still be in creased, to the greater emolument of the nation, if this expence should amount to four, eight, twelve, or thirty times more. Then, indeed, all nations might break up their highways, fill up their canals, prohibit the navigation of their rivers; they might even exclude animals from the labours of the field, and employ none but men in there works, in order to add to the expences that pre cede the consumption of the produce. Yet such are the absurdities we must maintain, if ve admit the false prin ciple we are now opposing ; but political truths muff be long canvassed before they are felt. Many errors have been introduced among statesmen, as well as among the bulk of the people, without examination. The French ministry, long blinded by that darkness in which they suffered their nation to remain, had not yet acquired a sufficient degree of knowledge to discover what kind of administration was fittest for the colonies; and they are fill equally ignorant of the form of government belt cal elated to make them prosper. THE French colonies, fettled by profligate men, whotliority in fled from the restraints or punishment of the law, seemeth' F;c'ld, at first to stand in need of nothing but a rit police; dined to they were therefore committed to chiefs who had an un tht hands that are limited authority. The spirit of intrigue, natural to all mol proper courts, but moi especially familiar to a ;a:;on where inflke gallantry gives the won;: a uni'.erf! afcc:.d:nt, has atril,?,all
B O 0 I; all times filled the higher pos; in America with worthless, ,men, loaded with debts and ices. The ministry, from ome,conftioufilefs of Cable!, and the fear ofrai.ng them where their ilifrace was known, hase sent them beyond sea, to improve or petrie e ;heir fortunes, among people who were ignorant of their n:ifonllduc. An ill-judged compassion, a;:d that f.'lc court maxim, that villainy is necessary, and vi!.ns are ufef.J, made them coolly sacrifice the peace of the planters, the Case y of the colonies, and the ver; itercl's cf the f;itc, to a set of wretches only fit ;o be irp.;iiiinc. T';,,.i rapacious and dissolute men fi::!z the frets of all chat was good and laudable, and checked the precise cf that prosperity which was rising fpr.ntlrco:rfy. .\r niT .Rv YR pn'.r carries alon-g with it so fub!e a F :c,, that c;'c,, th£ii men Who went over with honest intentions-wcr: loon corrupted. If ambition, avarice and pride had nor begun to fpo l them, they would not have been proof ainsi flattery, which never fails to raise its meanness upon general slavery, and to advance its own fortune by public calamity. THE few governors who escaped corruption, meeting with no support in an unlimited administration, were continually falling from one mistake into another. The) are not men, but the laws, that are to govern men. If the rulers are derived of this common rule, this ftana:-d of their judgments, all right, all safety, and all civil liberty will bh extinct. Nothing will then be seen but contra victory decisions, transient and opposite regulations, and orders, which fr :,vr.t of fundamental maxims will have no connexion with each other. If the code of laws was car.cc!lcd, ccn in the best constituted empire, it would foci afc-ar ta; uprightness alone was not fijif.cic:t to ec' rn it well. 1 he v ifefl men would b inadequate to,ftai
sei a tail. As they would not all be of the same mind, BO K and as each of them would not always be in the same dis ~X . position, the state would on be overturned. This kind confusion was perpetual in the French colonies, and the more o, as tie governors made but a short stay in one place, and were recalled before they had time to make any arrangements. After they had proceeded without a guide for three years in a new country, and upon unformed plans of police and laws, these rulers were replaced by others, who in as short a space, had not time to form any connection with the people they were to govern, nor to ripen their projects into that justice which, when tempered with mildness, can alone secure the execution of them. This want of experience, and of precedents, so much in imitated one of there absolute magistrates, that out of de delicacy, he would not venture to decide upon the common occurrences. Not but what he was aware of the inconveniences of his irresolution, but, though an able man, he did not think himself qualified to be a legislator, and therefore did not chuse to usurp the authority of one. YET these disorders might easily have been prevented, by substituting an equitable legislation, firm, and inde pendent of private will, to a military government, violent in itself, and fit only for critical and perilous times. But this scheme, which has often been proposed, was disliked by the governors jealous of absolute power, which, formidable in itself, is always odious in a subjea. These flares, escaped from the secret tyranny of the court, were remarkably attached to that form of justice which prevails in Asiatic governments, by which they kept even their own dependents in awe. The reformation was rejected even by tome virtuous governors, who did not consider, that by reserving to themselves the right of doing good, they left it in the power of their successors to VOL. Ill G g do
B 0 0 K do ill with impunity. All declared loudly against asp plan of legislation that tended to lessen the dependence of the people; and the court was weak enough to give way to their insinuation and advice, from a propensity to ar library power natural to princes and their ministers. They thought they provided sufficiently for their colonies by giving them an intendant to balance the power of the go vernon. THESE dissent settlements, which till then had groaned under the yoke of one proprietor only, now became a prey to two, equally dangerous by their division and their union. When they were at variance they divided the minds of the people, sowed discord among their adherents, and kindled a knd of civil war. The rumour of their dissentions was at length brought to Europe, where each party had its protectors, who were animated by pride or interest to support them in their places. When they ag2ced, either because their good or bad intentions hap opened to be the name, or because the one had got an entire accident over the other, the colonists were in a worse condition than ever. Whatever oppression there victims laboured under, their cries were never heard in the mo ther-country, who looked upon the harmony that sub fixed between their debate, as the most certain proof of a faultless administration. THE fate of the French colonies is not much improved. Their governors, besides having the disposal of tie regular troops, have a right to inlift the inhabitants, to order them to what works they think proper, to employ them as they please in time of war, and even to make eos them for conquest. Intrusted with absolute authority, and desirous of exerting a!l the porters that can eflabl:i' or e- tend it, they take upon themselves the cognizance of cii debts. The debtor is summoned, thrown into p iron or,il:to
into a dungeon, and compelled to pay without any other B 0 K form; and this is what they call the service or the mili- x . mary department. The intendants have the Cole manage ment and disposal of the finances, and generally order the collecting of them. They inquire into all causes, both civil and criminal, whether justice has not yet taken cog nuisance of them, or whether they have already been brought before the superior tribunals; and this is what they call administration. The governors and intendants jointly grant the lands that have not yet been given away, and judge of all differences that arise refusing old possessions. This arrangement puts the fortunes of all the colonists into their hands, or into those of their clerks and dependents, and consequently makes all property precarious, and occasions the utmost confusion IN mechanics, the further the resisting powers are re moved from the center, the more the moving force muff be increased ; in like manner, we are told, the colonies can not be secured any otherwise than by a harsh and ab folutc government. If so, Sir William Petty was in the right to disapprove of these fort of settlements. The earth had better remain unpeopled, or thinly inhabited, than that one powers hould be extended to the misfortune of the people. It is incumbent upon France to oppose this system of an Englishman against colonies, by improving more and more in the method of govern ing them. That enlightened spirit which distinguishes the present age, and which still supports and guides us, will one day restore the government to a sense of its true interests. Wre shall be made sensible that there hs been no justice in our colonies, because they had no fixed laws, the maintenance of which was 'trussed to proper tribunals. If this set of vein, ahways,G 2 
O 0 K enslaved, always oppressed, have not hitherto been thought Xiii,, to defers e this mark of our confidence, let us make them worthy of it by granting it. Their fouls will be in flamed with the sacred enthusiasm of public spirit, when once they can devote themselves to it without fear or anxiety. This truly patriotic zeal will kindle of itself, it these judicial bodies are composed of magistrates born in the colonies nothing appears to be more consonant to the ends of found policy, than to allow these islanders the right of governing themselves, provided it be in subordination to the mother country ; nearly in the same manner as a boat follows all the directions of the ship it is fastened to. It will, perhaps, be objected, that the people in the re. mote islands, being continually renewed by the fluctuation of commerce, this will naturally bring in a number oe worthless men; and that it will be long before we can expect to see those manners and that sagacity among them, which will be productive of public spirit, and of that dignity which is requisite to support the weight of business and the interests of a nation. This objection might have some foundation if we attended merely to the charades of those Europeans who are driven to America by their wants or their vices; who by thus transporting themselves either by choice or from other motives, are strangers every where; commonly corrupted by the want of laws, ill supplied by an arbitrary police by that depraved taste for dominion, which results from the abuse of avery; and by the dazzling lustre of a great fortune, which makes them forget their former obscurity. But this class of men ought to have no share in the administration, which hould be wholly committed to proprietors, mostly born in the colonies; for justice is the natural consequence ofplo party, and none are more interested in the good govcrn-,meet
ment of a country, than those who are entitled by their B 0 0 K birth to the larges possessions in it. These creoles, who XII,. have naturally a great share of penetration, a frankness of temper, an elevation of foul, and a certain love of juice that arises from thl;e noble dispositions, would be o len bible to the marks of esteem and confidence which would be hewn them by the mother-country by intrusion them with the interior management of their own. that t'.y would grow fond of that fertile soil, take a pride in decorating it, and be happy in introducing all the cos.fcrts of a ci i- sized society. Instead of that antipathy to France, which is a reflection upon her ministers, and upbraids them with their harshness, we sould see in the colonies that detachment which paternal kindness always inspires to children. Instead of that secret eagerness with which, in time of war, they run to meet a foreign yoke, we should see them uniting their efforts to prevent or repulse an invasion. Fear will restrain men under the immediate ee of a power ful and terrible master, but action alone can command them at a distance. This is, perhaps, the only spring tat acs upon the frontier provinces of an extensive Kingdom, whilst the indolent and rapacious inhabitants of the metropolis are kept in awe by authority. Attachment to the sovereign is a principle which cannot be too much en courage, or too much extended; but if it is neither merited nor returned, he will not enjoy it long. I hen there will he no more joy in our public feRfivls, no transports in our rejoicing, no involuntary acclamations at the fight of the beloved idol. Curiosity will bring a throng wherever there is a show ; hut conltcitmcnt will not appear in any countenance. A lilcn il.ontcit will arise, and spread from one province to almoner, and from the mother-country to the colonies. Vashti al; our to tunes are injured or threatened at once, the alarm and,G g 3 the
B O O K the commotion becomes general. Repeated strokes of Xlii.,autnhority, hurried on by the hand that ventures to exert them, wound every heart, and fall successively upon all bodies of men. The avengers of crimes, and Supporters of the rights of the colonists, are brought up even from America and confined like malefactors in the prisons of Eu rope. Our arms, which seemed to be blunted before the enemy, are happened against there valuable subjects of the te. Even those who were not age to defend them dur' - the war, are employed to spread terror among them in time of peace. Is it thus that colonies are preferred, and their prosperity promoted ? Rome learnt of her enemies how to conquer the old world; let France now learn of her rival how to people and cultivate the new.,END C THE Tiers EE TH Boox.,20 OK
BOOK XIv. B Took XIV. Settlement of the En, lij7 in le /,,ei plan islands. ENGLAND was not in a very brilliant situation when Tc Rate her settlements in America were silt begun 1625. ir ,t Eltg-,I td-rhea agriculture produced neither flax nor hemp. Thevv at the hel tempts they had made to rise mulberry trees and breed to sori,I,'n events silkworms h:;d been unsuccessful. Thevv labours of the l th field were wholly turned to the growing of coin, vhi.h, A.ltI can notwithstanding the turn of the nation for hLtfb airy, was seldom sufficient for home consumption, and n;:r.y of their granaries were tired from the fields bordering on the Baltic. Workmanship was still levi advanced than agriculture. It was confined to woollen manufactures. Thevvi had been increased since the exportation of unwvroitght wot had been prohibited, but these islanders, who teemed to work only for themselves, did not know how to set off their stuffs with that taste and elegance that was necessary to make them saleable. Thevv lent their cloths over to Holland where the Dutch gave them their lat colouring and gloss; from whence they circular ted ll over Europe, and fnetiimes returned to England.,Gg 4 Navis
K N^vGxrsTIOx hardly employed .t that time ten thou l sand ,airs. These were i the service of cxcluf ve com-spaniel, which had engrc:.;di e erv branch of tr.dc, net excepting that of cloth, which al.,ne constituted a teeth part of the commercial wealth of the nation. 'i he wool len-drapery trade therefore was centered in the hands of three or four hundred persons, v.-ho agrees, fur their on advantage, to fix the price of goods, both at going out and coming into the king-om. The privileges of these mono?;hlizors was exercised in the capital, where the court sod the provinces. London alone had fix times as many fails s all the other ports in the kingdom put to ge:hr.,THE public revenue relief was nor could be very ccrnf.z-ble. It was freed out; a ruinous method, which hs a says been practised in commonwealths, but on;, continued under aritriryv governments. The ex pence v. crt proportionable to the low state of the treasury The fleet was snail, and the ships so weak, that in time of reed, the merchantmen were turned into men of :sar. A hundred and sixty thousand militia, which was hc vho'e miirc.y force of the nation, were armed in tie of war. Tir ere ere no standing forces in time of peace, and the king himself had no guards.,\VITH fitch confined powers at home, the nation should pot have ventured to extend itf(cf in settlements abroad. Notwithstanding. ths , tie colonies were established which laid a soit foundation of prosperity. The origin of these set': cn:s was ow'i;g to certain events, the causes of which may be traced \ cr fr back. Cmsi'! VVHE-ER is acquainted with the rile and progress of '-' "tithe ri.nlifi government, ka:;:'s that the regal authority ten .a the po;' *c:. ; was long balanced by a few extensive proprietors of land icrt'r-' called Barons. They perpetually opprecicd the people,,who
who generally were become mean and contemptible B 0 0 K by slavery. They were constantly at variance with XIV. the crown, with more or less success, according to the character of the leading men, and the chance of circumstances There political quarrels occasioned much bloodshed. THE kingdom was exhausted by intestine war, which had lasted two hundred years, when Henry Veil. took up the reins of government on the decision of a battle, in which the nation, divided into two camps, had fought to give themselves a master. That fulfill prince took ad vantage of the depression into which a series of calamities had sunk his fubjees, to extend the regal authority, the limits of which, the anarchy of feudal government though continually encroaching upon them, had never been able to fix. He was assisted in this undertaking. by the faction which had placed the crown upon his head, and which, being the weakest, could not hl:pe to maintain themselves in the principal employments he had raised them to, but by supporting the ambition of their leader. This plan was strengthened by permitting Che nobility for the first time to alienate their lands. '1 his dangerous favour, joined to a taste for luxury which then began to prevail in Europe, brought on a great revolution in the fortunes of individuals. The immense fiefs of the barons were gradually squandered away, and the gates of the commoners increased. THE rights belonging to the several estates being di vide with the property of the land, it was so much the more difficult to unite the will and the power of many, against the authority of one. The monarchs took ad vantage of this period, so favourable to their ambition, to govern without controul. The decayed nobility were in fear of a power which they had reinforced,with
B OO K with all their losses. The commons thought themselves , sufficiently honoured by the privilege of imposing all the national taxes. The people, in one degree eared of their yoke by this flight alteration in the constitution, and whose circle of ideas is always confined to business or labour, became tired of editions, from the deviation and miseries which were the consequence and the punishment of them. So that when the nation were looking out for that absolute power, which was oft in the confusion of civil wars, their views returned to the monarch alone. Dazzled with the splendor of a throne, they mistook that for the source, which should only be the visible sign and lasting instrument of authority such was the situation of England, when James I was called thither from Scotland, as being sole heirto the two kingdoms, which by his accession were united under one head. A restless nobility, imparting their fury to their barbarous vassals, had kindled the fire of sedition in those northern mountains, which divided the island into two rifling fates. 1 he monarch had from his earliest years been as averse from limited authority, as the people were from despotism and absolute monarchy. Absolute monarchy then prevailed all over Europe, and as he was equal to other sovereigns, it was natural that he should be ambitious of the same power. His pre deceffors had enjoyed it even in England for a century pal, But he was not aware that the, owed it to their,own political abilities, or to favorable junctures. This religious prince, who believed he held all from God and nothing from men, fancied that strength of reason, wisdom and counsel, was centered in himself, and seemed to arrogate to himself that infallibility of which the pope had been stripped by the reformation, whose tenets he .noted thou gh he disliked them. There false principles,
pies, which tended to change government into a mystery B O0 K of religion, the more dangerous, as it bore at once upon , i our opinions, wills and lions, were so rooted in his mind together with all the other prejudices of a bad education, that he did not so much as think of support ing them with any of the human aids of prudence or force. NOTHING could be more repugnant to the general disposition of the people than this fyfltcn. All was in com motion both at home and abroad. The birth of America had hastened the maturity of Europe. Navigation ex tended round the whole globe. The intercourse of na tions would soon begin to remove prejudices, and open the door to industry and knowvlge. 1 he mechanical and liberal arts were extended, and hastening to perfection by the luxury that prevailed. Literature acquired the or laments of tale, and the sciences that solidity which springs from a spirit of calculation and commerce. Po politics enlarged the sphere of its views. This universal ferment exalted the ideas of men. The several bodies which formed this monstrous colossus of gothic government soon began to move on every side, to awake out of the lethargy of ignorance in which they had slept for many ages, and to form enterprizes. On the continent, where mercenary troops had been railed under pretence of maintaining discipline, mt princes acquired an unlimited authority, oppressing their fullers by force or in intrigue. In England, the love of ibertv, so natural to every thinking man, excited in the people by the au thorn of religious innovations, awakened in the enlighten ed minds of those who were conversant with the great writers of antiquity, who derived from their demo critic government that sublimity of reason and senti ment by which they are distinguished ; this love of liberty kindled in every generous breast the utmost ab-abhorrence
B o o K abhorrence for unlimited authority. The ascendent which X Elizabeth found means to gain and to support by an,uninterrupted prosperity of forty years, withheld this im patience, or turned it to enterprizes that were beneficial to the state. But no sooner did another branch ascend the throne, and the sceptre fall into the hands of a mo march who, by the very violence of his pretensions, was not much to be dreaded, than the nation asserted her rights, and aimed at governing herse'f.,IT was at this period that warm disputes broke out be tween the court and parliament. Both powers seemed to be making trial of their strength by continual opposition. The prince pretended that an entire passive obedience was due to him, and that national assemblies were only orna mental to, not the basis of the constitution The citizens loudly exclaimed against these principles, always weak when they come to be discussed; and maintained that the people as much constituted the essence of govern ment, if not more than the monarch. The one is the matter, the other the form. Now the form may and mu f change, for the preservation of the matter. The supreme law is the welfare of the people, not that of the prince; the king may die, the monarchy may be at an end, and society fullest, without either monarch or throne. In this manner the English reasoned at the dawn of liberty. They quarrelled, they opposed and threatened each other. James finished his course in the midst of these debates, leaving his on to discuss his rights, with the resolution of extending them. THE experience of all ages has (hewn that tranquillity which arises from absolute power, breeds a coolness in the reminds of the people, damps their courage, cramps their genius, and throws a whole nation into a universal le lethargy. On the contrary, the motions of a constitutional
to liberty are irregular and rapid; it is a con B O K tinged fever, sometimes higher, sometimes lower, but al ways convulsive. ENGLAND experienced this in the beginning of the reign of Charles I. who, though not so great a pedant as his father, was equally fond of authority. The division, which had begun between the king and the parliament, became general. The highest class of the nobility, and the second, which was the riches, afraid of being con founded with the vulgar, engaged on the side of the king, from whom they derived that borrowed lustre which they return him by a voluntary and venal bondage. As they fill possessed most of the great estates, they engaged almost all the country people in their party; who naturally love the king, because they think he must love them. London, and all the great towns, inspired by mu nicias government with the republican spirit, declared for the parliament, and drew along with them the trad ing part of the nation, who valuing themselves as much as the merchants in Holland, aspired to the freedom of that democracy. THESE divisions brought on the sharper, the moi bloody, and the most stubborn civil war ever recorded in history. Never did the English spirit hew itself in so dreadful a manner. Every day exhibited fresh scenes of violence, which seemed to have been already carried to the highest excels, and there again were outdone by others, till more atrocious. It seemed as if the nation was just upon the brink of destruction, and that every Briton had sworn to bury himself under the ruins of his country. IN this general tumult, the mnofl moderate fought forBy what,me-n the a peaceable retreat in the American islands, which the Bt,l, if English had lately seized upon. The tranquillity they "lsvcdsr,found f
B O O K found there, induced others to follow them. Whilst the XIV. XIV sedition was spreading in the. mother-country, the colo-,nies grew up and were peopled. Soon after, the royalists, who were oppressed by the republican party, which had prevailed at la!, went and joined the patriots, who had fled from faction. BOTH these were followed by thc.e restless and spirited men, whose long passions inspire them with great de fires and vale projects ; who despise dangers, hazards and fatigues, and wife to see no other end to them but death or fortune; h know of no medium between affluence and want; equal!. re-:y to overturn or serve their country, to lay it waste or to enrich it. Trie islands ;were alo the refuge of such as had been inr'crtu.nae in trade, cr had been reduced by merciless creditors to a state cf indigence and idleness. Unable as they were to fulfil their engagements, this very misfortune paved the way to their prosperity. After a few years they returned with affluence into their own country, and met with the highest respect in those very places from whence they had been banished with ignominy and con tempt. THIS resource was still more necessary for young people who in the serf transports of youth, had been drawn into excesses of debauchery and licentiousness. If they Lad no: quitted their country, shame and disgrace, which never fail to depress remind, would have prevented them from recovering either regularity of manners or public esteem. But in another country, where the experience they had of vice might prove a lesson of wisdom, and where they hed no occasion to attempt to remove any un favourable impressions, they found, after their misfortunes a harbour in which t'iy rested with fete. Their industry made amends for their past follies, and men who,had
had left Europe like vagabonds, and who disgraced it, re B 0 0 K turned honest men, and useful members of society. XIV. ALL these several colonists had at their disposal for the clearing and tilling of their lands, the moi profligate set of men of the three kingdoms, who had deserved death for capital crimes ; but who from motives of humanity and good policy, were suffered to live and to work for the benefit of the slate. There malefactors, who were transported for a term of !ears, which they were to spend in slavery, became i industrious and reformed in their manners, which placed them once more ill the way of fortune. Some of these there were, who when restored to society by the freedom they had gained, became plan terms, heads of families, and the owners of the best planta tions: a proof how much it is for the interest of a civilized society to admit this lenity in the penal laws, so con fordable to human nature, which is frail, but capable of sensibility, and of turning from evil to good. IN the mean time the English were too much taken up Under with their own dissentions at home, to think of g'iing'T or laws to the islands under their dominion, and the colo ment the,ritifl i; gifts were not sufficiently enlightened to draw up such a lards r^'.rc system of legislation as was fit for an infant society. established. Whilst the civil war was rectifying the government in England, the colonies, juftemerging from a states infancy, formed their own constitution upon the model of the mo ther-country. In each of these separate settlements, a chief represents te king, a council the peers, and the deputies of the several di.tii(ds, the commons. The ge neral assembly enacts laws, regulates taxes, and judges of the administration. The executive part belongs to the governor, who als, occrafi';aily dcctc'm:nes upon causes which have not i.-Ln tired bcorlc, but in cotnjIunion with the council and by the majority of voles. Thoughts
B O 0 K the members of this body are beholden to him for their V. ,rank, the)' will not fusser him to bribe their votes, forswear of exposing themselves to the resentment of the ge neral assembly, which has the sole power of removing .them.,GREAT-BRITAIN, to reconcile her own interests with the freedom of her colonies, took care that no laws should be enacted there which were inconsistent with her own. The governors she sends thither, to command in her name, swear before they go, that they will not sussex the least infringement of ths, fundamental maxim. This oath mute prevent the commanders from betraying the mo ther-country to four the islands, which, as they are to pay the governor's salary, might otherwise make his com prance the measure of their liberality. ON the other hand, this kind of dependence checks the governor's pride, and prevents him from becoming tyrannical The commissioners for the plantations have frequently in parliament attacked a prerogative that has restrained their authority. Regardless of the inconveniences that might attend it, the parliament has al ways adhered to this wise regulation. Justly dreading that spirit of rapaciousness which induces men to cross the seas, they have subjected the policemen who hould violate the laws of the colonies, to the same penalties as are inflicted in England on those who trespass upon na national liberty these precautions were not thought sufficient for the safety of the colonists, whom the nation cherishes and proteus as her children's children. Every colony has one or more deputies in the mother-country. Their important functions are, to prevent the abuse of power in the governors; to solicit the legislative body for the improvement and defence of the settlements, whose rights,and
and wants they represent; and to combine the particular B 0 0 K interest of the trade of the colonies with the general wel-,.v. fare of the nation. These agents do the same thing at London as the representatives of the people do in parliament They plead the cause of those distant provinces. Unhappy will it be for the state if ever they hould turn a deaf car to the cries of the representatives, whoever they are. The counties in England would rise; the colonies would hake off their allegiance in America; the treasures of both worlds would be lost to an island which na ture has made sovereign of the sea. UNDER what milder and wiser government could Englishmen live, who from the American islands are linked with their own country by the ties of blood and by those of necessity? And indeed the colonists established upon there foreign shores are constantly looking up to their mother country, who is ever attentive to their preservation One might say that, as the eagle who never loses fight of the nest where she softer her young, London seems to look down upon her colonies, and to see them grow up and thrive under her tender care. Her number less verses, covering an extent of two thousand league, with their proud fails, form as it were a bridge over the ocean, and carry on an uninterrupted communication be tween both worlds. With good laws, which maintain what they have once established, she preserves her possessions abroad without a standing army, which is always an oppressive and ruinous burden. Two very small corps fixed at Antigua and Jamaica are sufficient for a nation that can at any time transport troops wherever they may be w.ntcd. BY these beneficent regulations, dictated by humanity and found policy, the Englflfi islands on gew happy, though not rich. Their culture was coliincd to to VOL. Ir. Ht 1 bcco,
B o K banco, cotton, ginger, and indigo. Some of the en-enterprizing colonists fetched sugar canes from Brazil, and they multiplied prodigiously, but to no great purpose. They were ignorant of the art of managing this valuable plant, and drew from it such indifferent sugar, that it would not sell in Europe, or sold at the lowest price. A series of voyages to Fernambucca taught them how to make use of the treasure they had carried off; and the Portuguese, who till then had engrossed all the sugar trade, found in 165o in an ally, whose industry they thought precarious, a rival who was one day to supplant them. ALL this while the mother country had but a very small share in the prosperity of her colonies. They sent their own commodities directly to all parts of the world, where they thought they would sell best, and indiscriminately admitted (hips of all nations into their ports. This unlimited freedom must of course throw amor all their trade into the hands of that nation which, in con sequence of the low interest their money bears, the large ness of their flock, the number of their ships, and the reasonableness of their duties of import and export, could afford to make the heft terms, to buy at the dearest, and sell at the cheapest rate. These people were the Dutch. They united all the advantages of a superior army, which, being ever master of the field, is free in all its operations. They on seized upon the profits of so many productions, which they had neither planted nor gathered. Ten of their ships were seen in the British islands to one English vessel the nation had paid little attention to this evil during the disturbances of the civil wars; but as soon as there troubles were composed, and the slate restored to tranquillity by the very violence of its commotions, they be gan to look abroad. They perceived that those fubjets,,who
who had as it were taken refuge in America, would be B 0 0 K,XIV. lost to the state, if foreigners were suffered to devour the . fruits of their industry. The discussion of this point brought on the famous navigation at in 65r, which excluded all foreign hips from entering the harbours of the Englifa islands, and consequently obliged their pro duce to be exported directly to the countries under the do minion of England. The government, though aware of the inconveniencies of such an exclusion, was not alarmed at it, but considered the empire only as tree, whose sap mull be turned back to the trunk, when it flows too freely to one of the branches. IT was happy however for England that this restraining law could not then be enforced in its utmost rigour. A kind of negligence in the execution of it allowed time for the colonies to increase their sugar plantations, by the ready sale they found for their sugars, which enabled them to vie with the Portuguese, and insensibly to rise upon their ruins. These plantations made such rapid progress in the space of nine years, that in co, when it was judged that the law might safely be put in execution in its utmost strictness, the Englifa were already masters of the sugar trade all over Europe, except in the Mediterranean, which had continued faithful to their com petitions, on account of the charges of re-exportation, occasioned by the navigation a. It is true, in order to attain this superiority, they had been obliged greatly to undersell their neighbours; but their plentiful crops made them full amends for this necessary sacrifice. If it hap opened that other nations were encouraged by their success to raise plantations, at least for their own consumption the Englifa opened other markets which supplied the place of the former. The only mischance they met with, in a long series of years, was the seeing ny of theirs h 2 cargoes
B o O K cargoes taken by French privateers, and sold for a triRfc, XIv. The planter sustained by this a double inconvenience that of loan prt of his sugars, and being obliged to sell the remainder for less than it was worth. In , hat NOTWITHSTANDING there transient piracies, which raar-.crthe a.lws ceased in time of peace, the plantations still con cf.lh Bi;- tinged to prosper in the English hands. It appears from tin .,dsntris w which are said to be exact, that about the year,16Sc, they sent annually to Europe but 3c,oco hogsheads of fl-ar, each containing twelve hundred weight. Their exports from 1708 to 1718 were of 3,439 annually; from 17 S to 17 7 they rose to 68,931, and the fix fol lowing )ears to93,889. But from 1733 to 1737 they sell to 75 695, and the following )ears they flood at 7c,0Co hogtreads.,IF we enquire into the cause of this diminution, we shall find it was owing to France. This kingdom, which :rom its situation, and from the active genius of its in habits, hould b: foremost in every undertaking, is f0 fettered by the nature of its government, that it is the tt acquainted ih its own advantages and interests, The French fair got their sugars from the English, and afterwards thir i formations. They made some at firs for their own conscription, and began exporting it i: 716. Th sip priority of their soil, the advantage c fresh lands, the frugality of their planters who were ye poor, all conspired to cnabe them to undersell their corn editors. This grectcrt of all advantages in trade, ob gained them the presence in all the markets. As thei produce increased, that of their rivals was rejecTed be cause it was dearer. The decay was so rapid, that a na tion .which hai supplied all Europe with sugars, and ii' sold i etc hogsheads to foreigners in 17 9, sold no mnli,ti
than 7,715 in 1733, 5,21 i 1737, and none at all in B O O K,9'~~740 ~~~XIV. 1740 THE English islands had begun to complain long be fore this revolution was compleated. They had applied to parliament from the year 173 to engage them to pre vent the ruin of a trade that was already loft. Their petitions were at fist disregarded. Most people were of opinion that the lands in the colonies were exhausted, and the parliament had adopted this prejudice, not considering that though the soil was not altogether so luxuriant as fresh grounds, yet it ill retained that degree of ser utility which it seldom loses by coipfant tillage, unless it is capitally injured by rome accidental calamity. But when it was made evident from delineates lid before the house, that the last crops had been greater than the former, the parliament began to think of ways and means t colore this source of public fortune. THE political economy of commerce consists in fling cheaper than ones rivals. This the english islands were able to do, before the mother country, in 1663, had appropriated to herself a duty of four and a half per cent. upon all sugars brought from Barbadoes, which was soon extended to those of the other settlements. Ille great plenty of the commodity however presented their finking immediately under this burden. But the necessity, of the colonies having since compelled thctm to overload themselves with frerl taxes, they were no loncr able to with stand a competition which grew evcrv day more formidable and they invisibly saw theirlclve supplanted in all parts Possibly they might have been rescued from this sad situation, hb suppressing the duty of four and a half per cent. and by sacrificing to their local administration the enormous duties their commodities pay on their entry into Great Britain; but her great expences h 3 and
B O O K and her heavy national debt would not certainly admit of XXV. , this generosity, and the government thought they did enough for the colonies in allowing them, as they did in 1739, to send their sugars directly to all the ports of Europe. This concession, which was contrary to the navigation ac, proved ineffectual. The French main gained their superiority in ail the markers, and the English colonies were reduced to supply sugars merely for the consumption of the Britifl dominions, which did not ex need x12,oo hogsheads at the beginning of the century, and in 1755 amounted to 70,oco. Settlement England was beholden for this produce to their an ofthEng- cent possessions in the Well Indies. The island of Bar sikh at Bar badges. badges, which is situated to windward of all the others appeared to have never been inhabited, not even by savages, when some Englishmen from St. Christopher's went and fettled there in 1629. They found it covered with such large and hard trees, that it required uncommon resolution and patience to sell them and root them up. The ground was on cleared of this incumbrance, or stripped of this ornament: for it is doubtful whether nature does not decorate her own work better than the hand of man, who alters every thing for himself alone. Some patriots, tired of seeing the blood of their countrymen spilt, went and peopled this foreign land. Whilst the other colonies were rather ravaged than cultivated by those vagabonds who had been driven from home by po very or licentiousness, Barbadoes daily received new in habitants, who brought along with them not only their flock of money, but a taste for labour, courage, activity ambition, those vices and virtues which are the fruits of civil wars.,BY these means, an island, which is no more than eight leagues long and four broad, attained to a populations
of a hundred thousand fouls, and a trade that employed B O O K,XIV. four hundred hips of 150 tons burthen each. Such was ' the state of its prosperity in 1676, the period of its ut most greatness. Never had the earth beheld such a num ber of planters collected in o small a compass, or so many rich productions raised in so short a time. The labours, directed by Europeans, were performed by slaves bought in Africa, or even stolen in America. This un warrantable method of procuring them was but a ruinous kind of prop for a new edifice, and was near overturning it. Some Englishmen, who had landed on the coasts of the continent to get slaves, were discovered by the Caribs, who were the object of their search. These savages sell up on them, and put them all to death or to flight. A young man, who had been long pursued, ran into a wood, where an Indian woman meeting him, saved his life, concealed and fed him, and some time after, conducted him to the sea-side. His companions were laying at anchor there, waiting for the men they miffed, and went the boat to fetch him. His deliverer insisted on following him on board the ship. They were no sooner landed at Barba does, but the monster sold her who had saved his life, and had bestowed her heart as well as her person upon him. To vindicate the honour of the English nation, one of her poets has recorded this hocking in stance of avarice and perfidy, to be abhorred by posterity; it has been told in several languages, and held out to the detestation of all foreign nations. THE Indians, who dared not undertake to revenge themselves, imparted their resentment to the negroes, who had stronger motives, if possible, for hating the English. The slaves, with one accord, vowed the death of their tyrants. This conspiracy was carried on with such fe-,H h 4 cressy,
B O O K cressy, that the very dy before it was to have been execute Xrv.,ed, the colony had not the least suspicion of it. But, as if generosity was always to be the virtue of the wretched, one of the leaders of the plot informed his master of it. Letters were immediately dispatched to all the plantations, and came in time to prevent the impending mischief. The following night, the flies were seized in their huts; the molt guilty were executed by break of day; and this a& of severity reduced the rest to obedience they have never revolted since, and yet the exportation ate nt half of what they were. This revolution has been brollrht on by the extravagance of the inhabitants by contagious distempers; by hurricanes; by th emigration of many who are gone over to other islands, or to the continent of North America; by the waste of the land, and the necessity of manuring it ; and lazily, by the competition of a rival nation, which has been so fortunate as to meet with a better foil.,AT this present time there are at Barbadoes but 3c,00o flares, who are employed in manuring the ground with varech, a ea weed which the tide throws on (lore. It is in this varech that the sugar-canes are planted. The earth has little more todo with the growing of them, than the tubs in which we plant orange-trees in Europe. The whole produce of this laborious process is no more than S 5,0co hogsheads of raw sugar. They are conveyed to England, where they are sold for about 6,750,000 i- res. (:) The spirits, which may amount to Sco,oco livres, u) are all sent to North-america. Barbadoes is the only trading colony belonging to the English in the Leeward islands. All, or almost all the hips laden with flags that come from the coast of Africa, land there. If they cannot get a good price forster (0t z95,31'z. rs. (U) 35,00o/.
their negroes, they go somewhere else; but it seldom hap B O O K,XIV. pens that they do not dispose of them at Barbadoes. The usual price of slaves is from eight to nine hundred livres, (w) according to what nation o tribe they belong to. In this bargain, no distinction is ever made of age or sex, but they all sell together at so much a head. The pay ments are made in bills of exchange upon London, at ninety days fight. THESE negroes, which the merchants have bought by wholesale, they retail on this very islander in one other of the English islands. The refuse is struggled into the Spanish or French colonies. By this traffic five or fix millions of livres (x) were formerly circulated in Barba does; the species that is still to be found there, though in smaller quantities, is all foreign ; it is looked upon as a commodity, and is only taken by the weight. The shipping properly belonging to this settlement, comfits of a sufficient number of vessels for their fe-cras correspondences and about forty flores employed in the fishery of the flying fish. Nature and art conspire to fortify this island. Two thirds of its circumference are rendered in accessible by dangerous rock,, and on the open ide they have drawn lines, which are defended at proper distances by forts, provided with a formidable artillery. So that Barbadoes is still in a condition to command reste in time of war, and to be courted by her neighbours in time of peace. It affords a solid foundation for the richest of all cultures, a convenient mart for the ave trade, a larger proportion of revenue, of population, of com mere, and of forces, than could reasonably be expected on so small a for, ecfpeclily when compared to other neighbouring islands. Antigua, which is almost as large neither ( .) About ;71. on an average. (x) About 420,5001. on an average.
B 0 0 K neither enjoys the same advantages, nor is of the same XIV.,consequence. Settlement THIS island, which is but twenty miles long, but of of the English An considerable breadth, was found totally uninhabited, by tigua. those few Frenchmen who fled thither in 1629, upon be-sing driven from St. Christopher's by the Spaniards. The want of springs, which, doubtless, was the reason why no savages had settled there, induced these fugitives to re turn, as soon as they could regain their former habita tions. Some Englishmen, more enterprizing than either the French or the Caribs, flattered themselves that they should overcome this great obstacle, by collecting the rain-water in cisterns, and they therefore fettled there. The year in which this settlement was begun is not exactly known; but it appears that in January 164o, there were about thirty families on the island. THE number was net much increased, when king Charles II. granted the property of this island to lord Willoughby, as his father had given that of Barbadoes to the earl of Carlisle. His lordship sent over a good number of inhabitants at his own expence, in 1666. It is probable they would never have enriched themselves by the culture of tobacco, indigo and ginger, the only commodities they dealt in, had not colonel Haddington introduced into the island, which was then restored to the dominion of the slate, a source of wealth, in the year ib68, by the culture of sugar. The sugar was at first black, harl and coarse, and would not sell in England; they could only dispose of it in Holland, and in the Hans towns, where it sold for much less than that of the other colonies. By the most arduous labour, art got the better of nature, and brought this sugar to as great perfection, and to fetch as high a price as any other.,The
The island yielded 8000 hogsheads, the only fruit of the B O 0 K,XVI. labours of fifteen or sixteen thousand blacks. THE abuse of authority, o common in most nations, but so rare among the English, was severely felt at An tigua, and did not go unpunished. The governor, colo net Park, in defiance of the laws, and regardless of mo rats or decorum, gave a loose to his unbounded arrogance The members of the council, unable to put a flop to excesses which they abhorred, summoned the co lifts in 1710 to protect their representatives, to de send the fortunes of the public, and to put an end to o many calamities. Upon this they immediately took up arms. The tyrant was attacked in his own house, and stabbed to death. His corpse was thrown naked into the street, and mutilated by those whole bed he had dishonoured The mother-country, more moved by the fa cried rights of nature than jealous of her own authority, overlooked a deed which her vigilance ought to have pre vented, but which she was too equitable to revenge. It is only the part of a tyrant to excite a rebellion, and then to quench it in the blood of the oppressed. Machiavelli, which teaches princes the art of being feared and detested, tires them to stifle the victims whose cries grow importunate Humanity prescribes to kings, justice in legislation mildness in administration, lenity to prevent insurrections and clemency to pardon them; Religion en joins obedience to the people, but God above all things requires equity in princes. If they violate it, a hundred thousand arms and voices will be lifted up against a single man, at the judgment of heaven and earth. The American islands have sometimes avenged the authority of kings and the rights of the people upon iniquitous go errors, who, by a double treachery, prostituted the king's name to oppress a action. Antigua will be celebrated
B o o K rated in history for this terrible example ofjuflRice. This,island is, however, too confined; but that of Montserrat is still less. Settlement THE Spaniards discovered this island in 1493. They ofthe E-g- light 5 did not fettle there, but gave it the name of a mountain IonDter- in Catalonia, which it rfemrbls in shape. It is almost round, and about nine leagues in circumference. The ground is very uneven, full of barren hills, and vallies fertilized by the waters. The English ,who landed there in 6532, were not content with disturbing the peace of the many savages who dwelt there, but drove them all away. This barbarity was not productive of the advantages they expected from it. The progress of the colony was but flow, and it made no figure till towards the end of the century.,AT this period, a spirit of universal exertion displayed itself, which, however, could not be accounted for from any particular cause. The les important cultures, which barely afforded a scanty provision of common necessaries, were all turned to sugar-plantations. Five thousand hogsheads are now annually made by ten thousand laves, though several misfortunes, occasioned either by war, or by the elements, have from time to time disappointed the industry of the planters. The loading and unloading of ships is difficult in an island which has not one good road. They would even be in danger upon the coasts, if the mailers did not take care, when they see a form approaching, to put out to ea, or to take shelter in some neighbouring harbour. Nevis is exposed to the same in convenience. stleme.r t THE most generally received opinion is, that the Eng- oftheEigg-lifh settled on this island in ces. It is properly but a sir a o- very high mountain of an easy ascent, and crowned withstand trees. The plantations lie all round; and begin-sing
ing at the ea side, are continued almost to the top ofB o K00 the mountain; but the higher they stand, the less fertile they are, because the soil grows more stony. This island is watered by many firearms, which would be so many sources of plenty, if they did not in stormy weather swell into torrents, wash away the lands, and destroy the very treasures they have produced. The colony of Nevis is a model of virtue, order and piety. There exemplary manners have been owing to the paternal care of the first governor. This incomparable man inspired all the inhabitants by his own example with a love of labour, a reasonable ceconomy, and innocent recreations. All the plantations, especially those of sugar, were successfully encouraged. The commander and those who obeyed were all actuated by the same principle of the strictest equity. Never was there an instance of greater harmony, peace and security. So rapid was the progress of this singular settlement, that if we may credit all the accounts of those times, it soon contained io,ooo white people, and 2o,oco blacks. Admitting even that such a population in so small a compass must be over rated, still it will hew the amazing but in fallible effect of virtue, in promoting the prosperity of a well regulated society. BUT, even virtue itself will not secure either individuals or societies from the calamities of nature, or from the injuries of fortune. In ice, a dreadful mortality swept away half this happy colony. It was ravaged in 1706 by a french squadron, which carried off three or four thousand slaves. hee next year, the ruin of this island was compleated by the most furious hurricane ever recorded. Since this cri s of diafeicrs, it has recovered a little, and at this day contains 8oo0 blacks, and pro duce 4o000 hogsheads of sugar. Perhaps those who,grieve
B O O K grieve most at the destruction of the Americans, and the slavery of the Africans, would receive some consolation if the Europeans were every where as humane as the English have been in this hand of Nevis, and if all the islands in that part of the world were as well cultivated in proportion; but nature and society afford few such pro digits. ENGLAND draws no productions from Barbuda, An guilla, or the Virgin islands. Four thousand inhabitants, half freemen, and half slaves, scattered .bout there wretched settlements, breed some cattle, and grow one few provisions, that they go and sell in the neighbouring colonies. Though they are poor, they enjoy the be refit of a free and separate government; yet the chief of there islands, as also of Antigua, Montserrat, and Nevis, is but the deputy of a governor general, who resides at St. Christopher's. Settlement SAINT Christopher's was the nursery of all the Eng- of the lily and French colonies in America. Both nations ar English at St. Chris rived there on the same day in 625. They hard the 'Others' sand between them, signed a perpetual neutrality, indentured into a mutual engagement to assist each other against their common enemy the Spaniard, who fora century past had engrossed or disturbed the whole hemisphere But jealousy on divided those whom interest had united. The French grew envious of the prosperous labours of the English, who on their side could not pa twenty bear that an idle neighbour, whose only employ ment was hunting and gallantry, hould be trying to rob them of their wives. This reciprocal uneasiness soon created quarrels, fighting, and devastations, though neither of the parties aimed at conquest. These were only domestic animosities, in which government took no part. Greater interests having kindled a war between,the
the two mother-countries in 1666, St. Christopher's B O K became a scene of carnage for half a century. The weaker party having been compelled to evacuate the co tony, on entered it again with a reinforcement, both to revenge their defeat and to repair their losSes. ' his long contest, in which both parties alternately had the advantage was terminated by the total expulsion of the French in 1702, and the peace of Utrecht cut off all their hopes of ever returning thither. THIS was no great sacrifice at that time, for a people who had never done any thing there but hunt and shed blood. Their population amounted but to 667 white people of all ages and of both sexes, 29 free blacks, and 659 slaves. All their herds consisted only of 265 head of horned cattle, and 157 horses. They raised nothing but a little cotton and indigo, and had but one tingle sugar plantation. THOUGH the English had for a long time made a great er advantage of this sand, yet they did not immediately reap .all the benefit they might have done from having the ole possession of it. THIS conquest was for a long time a prey to rapacious governors, who sold the lands for their own profit, or gave them away to their creatures, though they could warrant the duration of the sale or grant only during the term of their administration. The parliament of England at last put an end to this grievance, by ordering that all lands hould be put up to auction, and the purchase money poured into the public coffers. After this wise re mutation, the new plantations were as well cultivated as the old ones. THEi whole of the illud may be about seventy miles in circumference. The center is full of high and barren mountains, and the plains of pleasant, neat and com-odious
B 0 0 K odious habitations, adorned with avenues, fountains , and groves. The tate for rural life, which the Englifa,have retained more than any other civilized nation in Europe, prevails in the highest degree at St. Christopher's. They never had the least occasion to form a parcel of small societies in order to beguile time, and if the Fiench had not left there a small town, where their manners are preserved, they ould fill be unacquainted with that kind of social like, which is produce of mote altera. tions than pleasures; which is kept up by gallantry, and terminates in debauchery; silica begins with convivial joys, and ends in tie quarrels of gaming. Instead of this im ge of union, which is in fact but a beginning of discord, te English planters live by themselves, but live h-py ; their foul and countenance as serene as the clear si, under hi they breathe a pure and whole some air, in the nidtt of their plantation, and surround ed with their flies ; whom no doubt they govern like so many fathers, since they inspire them with generous and sometimes heroic sentiments. St. Christopher's has afford ed such a signal instance of love and friendship, as is not to be paralleled in able or hiflory.,Two negroes, both young, handsome, robust, cou rages, and born with a foul of an uncommon cast, were fond of each other from their infancy. Partners in the same labours, they were united by their filft;frings, which in feeling minds foi a stronger attachment than pleasures. If they were not happy, they comforted each other in their misfortunes. Love, which generally ob liberated the remembrance of misfortunes, served only to make theirs complete. A negro girl, who was likewise a flare, and whole eyes no doubt were the brighter som the contrast of her dark complexion, kindled an equal flame in the hearts of three two friends. The girl, who,was
was more capable of inspiring than of feeling a firing B o o K passion, would gladly have married either of them, but x. neither of them would rob his friend, or give her up. Time served only to increase the torments they suffered, without affecting their friendship or their love. Often times did tears of aguilh stream from their eyes, in the midst of the demonstrations of friendship they gave each other, at the fight of the too beloved object that threw them into despair. They sometimes swore that they would love her no more, and that they would rather part with life than forfeit their friendship. The whole plantation was moved at the fight of these conflicts. The love of the two friends for the beautiful negro girl was the topic of every conversation. One day they fol lowed her into a wood, there each embraced her, clasped her a thousand times to his heart, swore all the oaths and called her every tender name that love could inspire, and at once, without speaking or looking at each other, they both plunged a dagger into her breast. She expired, and they mingled their tears and groans with her last breath. 'They roared aloud, and made the wood ring with their violent outcries. A slave came running to their affiance, and saw them at a distance smothering the viaim of their strange love with their kisses. He called out to some others who soon came up, and found there two friends embracing each other upon the body of this unhappy girl, and bathed in her blood ; whilst they themselves were expiring in the streams that flowed from their own wounds. THESE lovers and these friends were a part of a body of 25,000 negroes, destined to furnish Europe with twelve or thirteen thousand hogsheads of sugar. It is in the mid of such severe labours, and in so degrading a nation, that we see such aaions, as must astonish the whole world. If there is a man who is not struck VCL. III. I i with
BO O K with horror and compassion at the greatness of this,, ferocious love, nature must have formed such a man, not,for the slavery of the negroes, but for the tyranny of thereafter. He will have lived without commiserating others, and will die without comfort; he must never have led a tear, and none will ever be shed for him. But it is now time to quit St. Christopher's, and pass on to Jamaica. The Eng- THIS island, which lies to windward of the other English de lish islands, and which geographers have ranked amongst the Spaniards from the greater Leeward islands, is nearly fan oval figure, the an fete greater diameter being 170 miles, and the lesser 70 at molt. themselves It is intersected with several ridges of high craggy mount the retains, with frightful rocks irregularly heaped up one up on another. Their barrenness does not prevent their being covered all over with a prodigious quantity of trees of different kinds, that shrike their roots through the clefts of the rocks, and attraa the moisture that is de posited there by storms and frequent fogs. This per petal verdure, kept up and embellished by a multitude of plentiful cascades, makes a constant spring all the year round, and exhibits the moRs enchanting prosper in na ture. But there waters which fall from the barren fum its, and fertilize the plains below, are brackish and unwholesome. This defeat is happily compensated by the salubrity of the air, which is the purest of any be tween the tropics in either hemisphere. COLUMBUS discovered this island in 1494, but made no settlement there. Eight years after, he was thrown upon it by a form. Having lost his hips, and being un able to get away, he implored the humanity of the fa wages, who gave him all the assistance that natural pity suggests. But there people, who cultivated no more land than what was just sufficient to supply their own wants, soon,grew
grew tired of supporting rangers, to the manifest risque of B 0 0 K starving themselves, and insensibly withdrew from their XI neighbourhood. The Spaniards, who had already indisposed the Indians against them by repeated acts of violence grew outrageous, and proceeded so far as to take up arms against a chief whom they accused of too much severity, because he disapproved of their ferocity. Co humbug, forced to yield to their threats, in order to disengage himself from so desperate a situation, availed him self of one of those natural phoenomena, in which a man of genius may sometimes find a resource, which he may be excused for having recourse to in a case of urgent necessity. FROM the little he had learnt of astronomy, he knew there would on be an eclipse of the moon. He took advantage of this circumstance, and summoned all the Caciques in the neighbourhood to come and hear some thing that nearly concerned them, and was essential to their preservation. He then flood up in the midst of them, and having upbraided them with their barbarity, in leaving him and his companions to perish for want, he addressed them in these words, which he pronounced with an air of inspiration: Two punish youfor this, the God whom I worship is going to Shrike you with his mot terrible judgments. This erty evening you wil fje time moon turn red, then grow dark and witibhld her light from you. This will be but a prelude to your calamities, if you obstinately rfi to ive us food. THE admiral had scarce done speaking, when his pro pieces were fulfilled. The savages were terrified beyond measure; they thought they were all lost; they begged for mercy, and promised to do any thing they hould desire. They were then told that heaven, moved at their repentance, was appeased, and that nature was going to,I i 2 resume
B o o K resume her wonted course. From that moment, proi- Diversions were sent in from all quarters, and Columbus had plenty all the hile he remained there's was Don Diego, the son of this extraordinary man, who fixed the Spaniards at Jamaica. In 1509, he sent thither seventy robbers from St. Domingo under the command of John d'Efquimel, and others soon fol lowed. It seemed as if they all went over to this delight ful and peaceable island, for no other purpose than to spill human blood. Those barbarous wretches never (heated their sword while there was one inhabitant left to pre serve the memory of a numerous, good-natured, plain and hospitable people. It was happy for the earth, that these murderers were not to supply their place. They had no inclination to multiply in an island where no gold was to be had. Their cruelty did not answer the pur pose of their avarice, and the earth which they had drenched with blood, feed to refute her assistance to second the barbarous efforts they made to fix there. Every settlement raised upon the ashes of the natives, was un successful, when labour and despair had completed the destruction of the few savages who had escaped the fury of the first conquers. That of St. Jago de la Vega, was the only one that supported itself. The inhabitants of that town, plunged in idleness, the usual consequence of tyranny after devastation, were content with hing upon the produce of some few plantations, and the over plus th-v sold to the ships that passed by their coasts. The whole pulsation of the colony, centered in the little spot that fed this worthless race of destroyers, consisted of 15O slaves, commanded by as many tyrants, when the English came and attacked the town, took it, and settled there in 55.,THEY
THEY brought discord along with them. At first, the B O O K new colony was only inhabited by three thousand of that xlv. fanatical militia, which had fought and conquered under the standards of the republican party. They were soon followed by a multitude of royalists, who were in hopes of finding rest and peace in America, to comfort them after their defeat. The party divisions, vwich had so long and io cruelly tormented them at home, foluwcd them hbeond the seas. One parry ins gently triumphed in the protection of Cromwell, wh'-m the had exalted upon the ruins of the throne: the other rusted to the governor of the island, who was a rov.ylis in his heart, though forced to bend under the authority tat appointed him. This was sufficient to hae renewed in America the scenes of horror and bloodshed which had so often been acted in England, had not Pen and Enables the con queries of Jamaica, given the command f the island to the wisest of their men, who happened to be the oldest officer. His name was Dudley, anu he was a fricnl to the Stewart. Twite did Cromwell appoint ne of his own party in his stead, and twice did Dudley come in again, upon the death of his opponents. THE conspiracies that were lb:milng again him were discovered and frustrated. Never did he lier the smallest breach of discipline to go unpunished. H-e always kept the balance even between the faction his heart detested and the party he loved. He excited industry, and en courage it by his attention, his advice, and his example. His authority was enforced by his disinterested behaviour. He never could be prevailed upon to accept of a alar, being content to live upon the produce of his own plan nations. In private life, he was plan. and familiar in office, an intpid warrior, a treaty ;lnd strict command er, and a wise politician. His manner of governing .;s,I i 3 altaic:her
B O O K altogether military, because his business was to restrain or,to regulate an infant colony, wholly composed of soldiers, and to prevent and repulse any invasion from the Spa niards, who might attempt to recover what they had lot.,BUT when Charles II. was called to the crown, by the nation that had deprived his father of it, a form of civil government was established at Jamaica, modelled like those of the other islands upon that of the mother-country. The governor represented the king; the council the peers; and three deputies from each town with two from every pa rill, constituted the canons. But the firs exertions of this assembly were confined to a few temporary regulations, relative to the police, the administration of justice, and the finances, thrown together without any order. It was not till the year 1682 that the code of laws was drawn up, which to this day preserves the colony in all its vigour. Three of these wise statutes merit the attention of our po political readers the one, which provides for the defence of their country warmly excites that very self-interest which might divert individuals from attending to it. It is enacted, that whatever mischief is dune by the enemy, hall immediately be made good by the slate or at the expence of all the subjects, if the money found in the treasury should prove insufficient.,ANOTHER law concerns the means of increasing po pulsation. It enacts, that every sip captain who brings a man into the colony, who is unable to pay for his pas sage, hall receive a general gratuity of twenty-two livres ten fols ). The particular gratuity is 68 livres fifteen fols (z), for even' person brought from England or Scot-eland i O') les. 8d. halfpenny. (z) About 7. s.
land; 135 livres (a) for every person brought from Ire B O O K,XIV. land ; seventy-eight livres fifteen fols (b) for every person . brought from the continent of America; and forty-five livres (c) for every person brought from the other islands. THE third law tends to the encouragement of agriculture When a proprietor of land is unable to pay either interest or capital of the money he has borrowed, his plan nation is appraised by twelve planters who are his equals. The creditor is obliged to take the estate in full payment, though the appraisement should fal' short of the debt; but if the plantation exceeds the debt, then he must reimburse the overplus. This regulation, though it leaves room for partialities, makes amends for it by the gene rat good it produces of abating the rigour of the land lord's and merchant's law-suits against the planter. The result of this disposition is in favour of lands and men in general. The creditor is seldom a sufferer, because he is upon his guard; and the debtor is more obliged to be vi giant and honest, if he means to find credit. Confidence then becomes the basis of all agreements, and confidence is only to be gained by virtue. THE colony had already acquired some degree of same, Jamaica before there salutary laws had secured her prosperity. Some has enrich-sed itself adventurers, as well from hatred and national jealousy, as by the ille from an unsettled disposition and want of fortune, attacked gal stade it,has carried the Spanish hips. These corsairs were seconded by Croton with,well's soldiers, who Spanish well's soldiers, who gaining nothing after his death, but America. that public aversion which their former successes had drawn upon them, went to feck that promotion abroad, which they could never expect at home. These were joined by a multitude of Englishmen of both parties, accustomed to blood, by the civil wars which had ruined them. Theses i 4 men (a) i5. itg. Id. halfpenny. (b) About 3/. 8s, lid (c) sI. g9s. 4. halfpenny,
B O O Men, eager for rapine and carnage, plundered the seas, XIV.,- ,and ravaged the coasts of America. Jamaica was the place where the spoils of Mexico and Peru were always brought by the English, and frequently by foreigners. They found in this island more ease, a better reception, protection and freedom than any where else, watcher for landing, or for spending the produce of their excursions as they pleated. Here extravagance and debauchery soon plunged them again into indigence. I his only spur to their cruel and sanguinary industry, made them hasten to commit rrcfb depredations. Thus the colony reaped the benefit of their perpetual vicissitudes of fortune, and enriched itself by tree vices which were both the source and the ruin of their wealth.,VWHEN this destructive race became extinct, by reason of the frequency of the murders they committed, the funds they had left behind, and which, indeed, had been taken from wretches still more unjust and cruel than themselves, proved a fresh source of opulence, by fa civitatis the means of opening a clandestine trade with the spanifh settlements. This vein of riches con tinged increasing, and especially) towards the end of the century. Some Portuguele, with a capital of three mil lions and of which the sovereign had advanced two thirds, engaged, in 1696, to furnish the subjects of the court of Madrid with 5000 blacks, each of the five years that their treaty was to last. This company drew a great many of those slaves from Jamaica. IFrrm that time the colonists had confront connections with Mexico and Peru, either by means of the Portuguele agents, or by the captains of their own hips employed in this trade. But this inter course was somewhat slackened by the war, which broke out on account of the succession to the throne of Spain.,AT (d) About 131,5C/.
AT the peace, the Assent treaty alarmed the people of B O O K,XIV. Jamaica. They were afraid that the South Sea company,, which was appointed to furnish tile Spanish colonies with negroes, would entirely explode them from all access to the gold mines. All the efforts they made to break this regulation, could not produce any alteration in the mea sures of the English ministry. They wisely foresaw that the activity of the Affientilfs would excite a new spirit for the old smuggling trade. This was so fully verified that in 1739, it was the general opinion that Jamaica had drawn fifteen hundred millions oflivres(t) from the Spanish Veft-ludies. THIS illicit trice was carried on in a very simple manner. An English vessel pretended to be in want of water, wood, or provisions, that her mash was broken, that fh. had sprung a leak, which could not be discovered or stopped without unloading. The governor permitted the Ship to come into the harbour to refit. But for form fake, and to circulate himself to his court, he ordered a leal to be as fixed to the door of the warehouse where the goods were deposited; whilst another door was left unsealed, through which the things that were exchanged in this trade were carried in and out by stealth. When the whole transaction was ended, the stranger, who was always in want of money, requested that he might be permitted to sell as much as would pay his charges; and it was always granted, though with an appearance of great difficult). This farce was necessary, that the governor or his agents might safely dispose in public of what they had previously bought in secret ; as it would always be taken for granted, that what they sold could be no other than the goods that were allowed to be bought. In this manner were the greater cargoes disposed of.,THE (e) 6,6%5,0ooc.
B Took THE court of Madrid thought to put a stop to there XIV. , practices, by prohibiting the admission of all foreign ships into the Spanish harbours on any pretence what ever. But the people of Jamaica substituted force to artifice and supported themselves in this trade under the pro section of their men of war, allowing the captain five per cent. upon every article of which he authorized the smuggling between the subject of both crowns, and con tray to their treaty; so true it is, that kings in vain enter into agreements, that are inconsistent with the reciprocal interest of nations. To this open violation of public order, has succeeded a more private and less alarming one. The Chips fitted out at Jamaica, repair to those ports of the Spanifh coast which are least frequented; especially to those of Brew, five miles from Cartagena, and Grout, four miles from Porto-bello. A man who speaks the language of the country, is immediately put are, to give notice in the adjacent country of the arrival of the ships. The news is propagated with amazing speed to the most defiant parts; the merchants hasten to the place, and enter upon the business, but with such precautions as experience has taught them. The lip's company are divided into three parties. Whilst the first is entertaining the purchasers, and treating them with great civilities, at the same time keeping a watchful eye to prevent them from exercising their inclination and dexterity in sealing; the second is employed in receiving the vanilla, indigo, cochineal, gold and silver of the Spaniards, in exchange for slaves, quick silver, silks, and her commodities. The third division is in the mean while under arms upon deck, to provide for the safety of the ship, and to take care not to admit at once a greater number of men than can be kept in order. WHEN all the business is done, the Englishman returns with his fock, which he has commonly doubled, and the,Spaniard
Spaniard with his purchase, of which he hopes to make B O O K as great a profit, or greater. To prevent a discovery, he 'Xv avoids the high roads, and goes through by-ways, with the negroes he has bought, who carry the goods in mall parcels. THIS manner of trading had been carried on successfully for a long time, to the great emolument of the colonies of both nations, when, as Spain intended, it was greatly obtruded by substituting regilter-fhips to the galleons. It has gradually diminished, and of late was reduced to fifteen or sixteen hundred thousand livres (f) per annum. The British ministry, wishing to restore, or recover the profit of it, judged in 1766 that the best expedient to re pair the losses of Jamaica, was to make it a free port. IMMEDIATELY the Ships flocked thither from all parts, to exchange their gold and silver, and their commodities, for the manufactures of England. The year before this regulation, the exports from Great-britain for this island, had not exceeded 9,351,540 livres (g); but this plan must increase them considerably. Freedom of trade is a great allurement to foreigners, and a great source of wealth to the nation that opens her ports. IF it had not been for the reformation which excludes all commodities of the same nature with those of Jamaica, it is most probable those of St. Domingo would have taken the same course with those of Mexico and Peru. What is thereupon that the same government, which is endeavour ing to draw into one of its marts the productions of the French Windward islands, hould deny an entrance to those of a Leeward island ? Perhaps, it might be feared, that the fubjeas should find means to obtain from a rival, who can venture with impunity to sell every thing at slower (f) On an average about 7,8oo. ( ) 415;;979. t17, 6d.
B O O K lower price those goods which should contribute to keep Xiv,. up their trade with the Spanish colonies whether this conjecture is well or ill grounded, the English have not trusted Io much to the readiness of the Spaniards to come to their ports, but they have contrived other means of extending their commerce with them. The merchants of Jamaica had formerly fettled some sac tories in the bay of Honduras, on the Black river, near the Mulcuito fore. For reasons unknown to us, they had forsaken them. They have now referred them, in the beginning of the 1766, in hopes of supplying the in land provinces of Mexico with provisions, and if we are not misinformed, the success far surpasses their expedition Jamaica YET this fraudulent and precarious trade is a trifle, com bs enrich ed isis by pared to the immense riches which the plantations of Pains p!ast- mica have produced. The first culture which the invasions fill more titan giants applied to, was that of cocoa, which they found by its ille well established by the Spaniards. It prospered as long as 'al trade. 'those plantations lasted, which had been cultivated by a people who made this their principal food and their only traffic. The new planters perceived that they began to decay, and they renewed them, but either for want of care or of skill in the new planters, the trees did not succeed. They grew tired of the culture, and applied themselves to that of indigo. THIS production went on successfully, when the par lament thought proper to lay a duty.of three livres, eighteen fois, fix deniers (h), upon every pound of indigo, which then sold for eleven livres five fols (i). If this was evidently an immodereduatuty at that time, it grew quite in tolerable, when the French competition brought down the price (F) :'. '. three fr.hirgs. (i) 9s. ;od.
price of the commodity to four livres ten fols (k) a pound. B O O K,XIV. At this period all the indigo plantations sell through , . out the English sands, and no where so fast as at Jamaica. The government has since endeavoured to retrieve this loss; they have not only taken off the heavy load with which they had clogged that branch of industry, but have encouraged it by a bounty of eleven fols three deniers (1), upon every pound of indigo railed in the British fettle nients. This generosity has (hewed itself too late, and has onlyoccafioned abuses. In order to obtain the bounty, the Jamaica people fetch indigo from St. Domingo, and then send it over to Great-britain as the growth of their own plantation. This fraudulent traffic may amount to 1,200,000 livres (m) a year. THE expence tie government is at on this account, cannot be looked upon as a dear loss, since it is of use to the nation; but it keeps up that mistrust, and we may say, that propensity to cheating, which pecuniary con ceres have bred in mode of our governments, between the state and the subjects. Ever since the prince has been incessantly contriving means to acquire money, the people have been studying artifices to elude the injustice of taxes, and to cheat the prince. When one side has shewn no moderation in their demands, no bounds to taxations, no equity in the repartition, no lenity in the recovery, there have been no longer any scruples about the violation of pecuniary laws on the other, nor any honesty in the payment of the duties, nor uprightness in the en engagements between the subject and the government. Op pression reigned on one hand, and plundering on the other; the finance extorted from commerce, and commerce eluded or cheated the finance. The treasury pillaged the planters, and the planters impost upon the treasury by salle entries the (k) 3s. rid one farthing. (I) About 6d. (m) 5,5c!.
B 00 K The colonist was teazed with taxes, services, and militias; XIV.,X 'and he rejected this threefold bondage openly and by force when he was able, and when he was not, by clamours and complaints. If England does not supply us with all these instances of the faulty administration introduced by the spirit of finance, Europe can hew other states which too fully justify this picture. THE culture of indigo was not yet totally given up at Jamaica, when that of cotton was undertaken. The American islands produce cotton shrubs of various sizes, which rise and grow up without any culture, especially in low and marshy grounds. Their fleece is of a pale red, some paler than others, but so short that it cannot be spun. None of this is brought to Europe, though it might very well be used in making of hats. The little they think proper to pick up, serves to make mattresses and pillows. THE cotton shrub that supplies our manufactures, re quires a dry and stony soil, and thrives best in grounds that have already been tilled. Not but that the plant appears more flourishing in fresh lands than in those which are ex haunted, but then it is too luxuriant, and as it hoots more wood, it bears less fruit. A western position is fittest for it. The culture of it begins in March and April, and during the first spring rains. Holes are made at seven or eight feet distance from each other, and a few feeds thrown in. When they are grown to the height of five or fix inches, all the stems are pulled up, except two or three of the stoutest. These are cropped twice before the end of August. This pre caution is the more necessary, as the wood bears no fruit till after the second pruning; and if the Ibrub was sus served to grow more than four feet high, the crop would not be the greater, nor the fruit so easily gathered. The same method is pursued for three years, for so long the,ihrub
shrub may continue, if it cannot conveniently be renew B O O K ed oftener, with the prospect of an advantage that will XIV. compensate the trouble. THIS useful plant will not thrive if the ground about it is not kept constantly weeded. Frequent rains will promote its growth, but they must not be incessant. Dry weather is particularly necessary in the months of March and April, which is the time of gathering the cotton; for it would be discoloured and spotty if it hould prove a wet season. THE cotton shrub bears fruit within nine or ten months after it is planted; A flower blows at the ex trinity of its branches, and the pistil of this flower turns to a hell, of the size of a pigeon's egg, which opens, and divides in three, when the cotton is ripe. WHEN it is all gathered in, the feeds must be picked out from the fruit with which they are naturally mixed. This is done by means of a cotton mill, which is an en give, composed of two rods of hard wood, about eighteen feet long, eighteen lines in circumference, and fluted two lines deep. They are confined at both ends, so as to leave no more distance between them, than what is necessary for the feed to flip through. At one end is a kind of little millstone, which being put in mo tion with the foot, turns the rods in contrary directions. They catch up the cotton, and repel the feed contain ed in it. WHILST the culture of cotton flagged in the other English islands, it flourished more and mole at Jamaica but we may venture to foretell that it will fall. The parliament, that is to say the nation, who knows and administers her own revenues, seeing that the cotton of her own colonies was not sufficient to employ her ma nufaaures, took off the duties upon foreign cottons in,1766.
B O OK 1766. The granting such a freedom as muff increase XIV. 0,the importation and reduce the price of an inwrought commodity, deserts the highest encomiums. Perhaps, a provident administration ought to have gone a step fur ther, and have granted a temporary bounty upon all cottons imported from the national settlements, to obviate the discouragement which may arise from foreign com petition, and from the reduced price of the commodity. But if the English are anxious about the success of this important article, they need not be so for their ginger. THIS plant, which never grows above two feet high, is rather bushy. Its leaves exactly resemble those of rushed, only they are smaller. It is propagated by hoots, which are planted two or three fingers deep about the end of the rainy season, and come up in a week's time. When the leaves turn yellow and wither, the ginger is ripe; they pull it up, and expose it to the fun or wind to dry. The roots, which are the only useful part, are fiat, broad, of an irregular shape, but mostly resembling the foot of a goose. Their substance is close, heavy, white, firm, and of the confidence of a turnip. THE culture of ginger is easy, and by no means expensive a single man may undertake it alone. The root has this double advantage, that it will keep many years in the ground without rotting, and as long as we please after it is gathered, without being in the leaf injured. But if ginger requires no great labour, it absorbs a vast quantity of nutritive juices insomuch that a piece of ground which has bore three or four crops of ginger, is so ex haunted of salts, that nothing will thrive upon it. WHEN first the Europeans came to the Leeward islands, the Caribs made use of ginger; but their consumption in this and in every other article, was so small, that they were content with what grew wild. The conquerors,,though
though in a hot climate, grew passionately fond of this B 0 C IC hot spice. They ate it in the mnorlnir:g to fhrpcn their ap petite; they furred it up at table; they pilfered it in several different wy:; ;hey ifrd it after meals to facilitate direction and at lia as an antidote against the scurvy. This fashion was adopted in Europe, ginger was used on every occasion; it was commonly mixed with paper, which was then very dear. This cairn production sell gradually to a lower price, and ginger grew ot of repute. After bearing a concern blc price, it Ih:nk towards the latter end of the century to ten ii\rcs a hi-n.rcd (':) In a short time nro body cared for it, and this celtic was dropped lmolt every where, cxcc-rt at Jamaica. FOR the haft thirteen years, it is computed that this island has exported upon an average 649,865 pounds weight a year. Most of it has been consumed in the British dominions the rest has 'been fld in the north, at a price which cannot tempt the colonies where the land is not ordinary and poor as at Jamaica. BESIDES anger, this il.and furnishes Europe with a good quantity of pimento. There are ticeeral forts, ire or less pungent. The tree which bears that fort called Jamaica pepper, commonly grows upon the mountains, to ths height of above thirty feet. It is very ft1,lir, no dcrately thick, and covered with a greyish, froth and shining bark. The scales exactly tremble thole of the laurel. The flowers below at the extremities of the branches, and arc succeeded by bu::chcs fomewhi; at larger than those of the juniper. They arc gather d iron, and spread in the fun to dry. They t;lrn hrovn, and acquire a spicy smell, from whence in England thlcv c.:il pimiento all-spice. it is an excellent rt'ig to ls;' h-;z: coid,Vc3 i,. K k ftoniaclhs,i S. 9g.
B o o K stomachs that are subject to crudities ; but spices should xtv.,,be cultivated in Asia, and sugar in America.,The art of managing this culture was unknown in Jamaica till the year 1668. It was brought thither by some inhabitants of Barbadoes. One of them was possessed of every requisite for that kind of produce that de pends on man. His name was Thomas Modified. His capital, together with his skill and aivity, enabled him to clear an immense trap of land, and raised him in time to the government of the colony. Yet neither could the fight of his growing fortune, nor his warm sollicitations, prevail upon men accustomed to arms and idleness to ap ply to the labours of hufbnr.dry. 'Twelve hundred un fortunate men, who arrived in 1670 from Surinam, which had tuft been ceded to the Dutch, proved more trac abel. Necessity inspired them with resolution, and their example excited emulation. These beginnings of labour were happily supported by the quantity of money that was daily poured into Jamaica, from the uninterrupted access of the free-brothers. Great part of it was ern;!Foyed in erecting buildings, purchasing flares, im elements of husbandry, and houshold goods for the new habitations. The face of things was wholly changed. Jamaica soon exported aft quantities of sugar, superior in kind to that of the other English islands. This cul ture has never Icffencd, not even when that of coffee was joined to it.,T1HIS valuable plant, brought from the EaR-Indies, enriched the Dutch n:d Flencll settlements in America, before ever the English thought of appropriating it to themselves; and, indeed, it has been adopted only at Jamaica but that island will on furnish as much as the British dominions can consume. 'I've mother country has encouraged this c-!:ure, and brought it to this pitch,,by
by enabling, that all foreign coffee imported into her O OK,XIV. dominions, hould pay fix livres (o) more duty upon every hundred weight, than that imported from her own colonies. The commissioners for the plantations declared in the house of lords in 1734, that the productions of Jamaica, imported the year before amounted but to 2,138,748 livres, i fol, 6 deniers.(p) Their value hath since risen to 15,300,000 livres. () This revenue is produced by 25,000 hogsheads of sugar, 2000 bags of cotton, three millions weight of coffee, besides skins, ginger, woods for dying, and other lesser articles. These arc the fruits of the labour of 20,000 white men, and 90,000 blacks, gathered together in a few towns, or dispersed in nineteen parishes. The yearly administration and defence of the colony amounts to two millions of livres,(r) and in rome par titular circumstances much more. Her whole capital, in lands, naves, houses, and moveables of every kind, has been estimated at 495,oo,ooo livres. (s) But it is scarce credible, that little of this wealth is the property of the planters. Either by misfortunes, by extravagance, or by the case with which they find credit, they have in solved themselves in prodigious debts to the merchants fettled on the island, and especially to the Jews. May that people, who at their first origin were slaves, and afterwards became conquerors, and who are now re duce to their former state of slavery, or become fu gives for these twenty centuries past, one daw law fully possess this or one other rich island of America, where they may colles all their children, and train them up in peace to husbandry and commerce, out of the reach of that fanaticism which has made them odious to the earth, and that persecution which has made them pay so dear for the errors of their worship and beliefs k 2 May (e) 5s. ;.1. (p) 531,07/. 4. cid. 3-4. (7) 669,3751,(r' 27,5=l,. (s) :;,65ó,5J.,
B 0 0 K May the Jews at last live happy, free and quiet in XIV. iJ sonne corner er the void, face they are our brethren,by the ties of humanity, and cur fathers by the tenet of riicrn - IF we .:; believe some who are well acquainted with the state of ass-irs at Jamaica, no ifs than two thirds of t e ef,.lcs ar nr:ort :dJ. This distress must in create, un!cls it is stopped by a greet and rapid augmentation of the plantations. Whet-her this is pfible r probable, shall b the subject of our next inquiry. I it pes,- UPON the rnmof moderate computation, the extent of b':t1 he Jamaica ai:pcrs to be four millions of acres, each 720 produce ct J3ns!: feet long, and 72 broad. It has been fid that one third ihoji de of this large space was inhabited and cultivated. Ths multiplied?,present state of the population and cultivation contradicts this assertion, though both are more flourishing than ever. All the inland parts arc a mere debt. There are no plantations but upon the coast, and even thee are not all cultivated. Most of the planters possess immcnf: grounds, but hardly one fourth part of them is put to an:; use. All the labour is bellowed upon 200,coo acres rt r.-o:1.,VHEN we consider, that Jamaica has been long since inhabited bv an industrious ;end fitful people; that the piratical war, and the contraband trade, have at all times poured in immense treasure; that the means of culture have never been wanting; that for this !long time, they have had recourse to manure; th: their oats and har hours are prodigiously multiplied for exportation; that the mother country and all nr: pe i:a\e received their pio duce; tat notithfiancindi . ll these advantages, land has never ili so. mere tall one third of what it has brought in the ther i ll n , when wee confi.c-r maturely ali these circuit-inc ), wse are tempted to conclude that,the
the soil of Jamaica mull be in general bad, or very B o O K indifferent. X THE fta side, which, for the cnvcn;ncy of transport naturally claims the preference for aug;; plantations mull be opposed to have hats :;1' the pains taken with it, and to hac been improved io the highest decree, that it was capable of. The excite and constant coolness of the mountains, would be to fitful to all productions, and so destructive to the flies, that it would be in vain to attempt any plantations there. The in;rmcdl.te space between the nu':taiis sand the sea calSi, is often ex extremely dry, bt hele and there it is intcrticried with valleys, hills and plains, here it plainly appears hait the Indians planted their maize, and the Spaniards bred their cattle. It may be presumed that these lands, properly managed, would yield abundance of cotton, cotsee, cocoa, and indigo; articles whlci tile English do not seem hitherto to hive paid a propel attention. But there riches are not sufficient to make any colon) ficuriflt in the hight degree. Nothing wvili essai this at present in the Arncmlcatn islands but sugar. THOUGH this commodity is cultivated all round the island of Jamaica, it is more pitiful rly I' on the southern coast, which the Spaniards inhabited, and where their conquerors have multiplied more than in any other part. Their inducement was a its amid commodious road, where a thousand men of vw ar ma', ride. Isis inestimable advantage laid the foundation of Port Royal, which, though it stands on halley grllnd that .si( rds none of the cccftilries of lite, nlt scic1 fcilfh water, be came a famous city in less than thi;rt ycasis. 'I t slender was owing to a constant and quick circulation t f business entitling of the growth of the id, the cap turns of the ficc-bccters, and the contraband tread c:sried,KI ; 3 on
B 0 0 K on with the continent. The world can shew few cities xrv. .where the thirst of wealth and pleasures has united more opulence and more corruption. Jamaica NATURE in one moment destroyed this brilliant ap a r-eat ca appearance. The sky, which was clear and serene, at once lairritr grew turbid and red; a rumbling noise was heard under Consequences ground, spreading from the mountains to the plain; the this rat rocks split; iiis that were at a great distance came close trophe.,together; infectious lakes appeared on the spots where whole mountains had been swallowed up; whole plan nations v;er2 removed several miles from the place where they stood ; cncrmus charms were opened, from whence gushed out huge columns of water that corrupted the air; many habitations disappeared, being either sunk into the caverns of the earth, or overturned. The ea was soon covered ;with trees, which the earth had thrown up, or the winds blown away. Thirteen thousand lives were lost by this dreadful earthquake, and three thousand by a contagious distemper that broke out on after. It is said that once this catastrophe of the 7th of June 692, the climate of Jamaica is nt so fine, the sky not so clear, nor the soil so fruitful as it was before. The mountains are not so high, and the island is lower than it was. It is affirmed that most of the wells can be reached with ropes shorter by two or three feet than were required before this terrible event: a monument of the fragility of conquest, ;which hould have taught the Europeans not to truss to the position of a world that trembles under their feet, and seems to flip out of their rapacious hands.,IN this general overthrow, Port Royal was watched away and destroyed; all the snaps in the road were shattered to pieces, or thrown a considerable distance upon dry land. But this city was too advantageously situated to be given up. The people had scarce recovered from their consternation,
nation, when they set-about rebuilding it. But these OO K,XIV. labours were fruitless. The rising walls were again blown. . down by a hurricane. Port Royal, like Jerusalem of old, could never be rebuilt. The earth seemed only digged to swallow it up. By a singularity which baffles all human efforts and reasonings, the only house that are left standing after this subversion, remain upon a narrow flip of land, which advances several miles into the ea. Thus the land overturns edifices, to which the inconstant ocean furnishes as it were a solid foundation. 'I hesse few buildings, which lie open to invasion, are defended by one of the bell fortresses in America. THE inhabitants of Port Royal, disheartened by there repeated calamities, retired to Kingston, which is situated in the same bay. By their industry and activity, this town soon became a pleasant and flourishing sty, and it is now the center of all the business. If it is not so brisk as it was formerly at Port Royal, it is because the colony has not now the same connections abroad. I he new mart lay open to secure the merchants from ll un easiness. It is but within these few years that it has been surrounded with works able to defend it from rnu!:. YET Kingston, notwithstanding it's progress, never became the capital; this title is still given t3 St. Jago de la Vega, which the English call spanifh town. It s li tufted some leagues from the ea, upon the ritter Cobra, which, though hot navigable, is the fines in the island. This was the governor's residence, and the place where the general assembly and the courts of justice were held. The principal officers and the richest planters resided there, which made it a very sociable place, abounding with all the conveniences and luxuries of life such was the slate of things in 1756, when Admiral Knowles judged it to be more for the advantage of the,K k 4 colony,
B O O I colony, that the government should be removed to the :IV.,center of bufi',cl-. His opinion was adopted b the le girl-;;ie body o the i:nid, who agreed that for the future every thing relative to annihilation should be trans C.cd at Kingston. Personal hatred against the projector of ths plan; the harnh:.c'. of te measures he took to carry it in; t execution ; the attachment most people are apt to take for places s v-el a- thins; numberless private interests that must be a: Teed by this alteration; all this causes iniifnlo:id many people ag.ii:l a chime, which was, in deed, liable tou se r-coni cniencies, but was founded join dicit;, rweL.ni3, and at::.!ed with great advantages. ']'he promoters of the :c:'.' . em, on their fide, supports it with a c;:ecn;:ptcus haughtiness. This opposition of i::i.;.c.n.: pr-':ccdi two parties, and the aniliofiy be t;-cen thc;l, which was iiolent'at firil, has fill gone on incria ;;i . Socii divisions are flufcient to inflame the stock coin;':. Beat they i:;C n much more to Sear from the .:;ce enim o threaten them inctl'dltly in the Jn.l;i Vis' th; S,pr.d' s :.'ere compelled to give up Jas L'.- c to t .h the , 'it behind them a number of : ,i':rjn. aniroc. in iidiLu tt;s, v )i bel hit wary of ths f;aveiC,,*'-' toc a .etc ;inn to rtieic ini;o the mouint;:il, there o v. . .- nrc;:-.- :.t.: i h.-r! wh;h they had recede-rd by the ex Idq:" c:> . 1';;'.C.f :'::t- r-rnts. lai, entered into fijme a,,rec- i.-': .-. r.cr. r.c.:' ry to precise r heir union, they planted;" .; - :' z ; : r.,: c- ,o i i Lthc niu:tl i: 'aceii'tc places o1i tilr,- re-er. Ilu: the i.c. i ib.ii:y o fLubr:iing till harvest, cb];;i, ;:i.i t,, c-,.e c.;:n' in' the piling, to piiihr fur f::C ll. -r h c 'c''i,¢oiS bore this .hinder te more ;;, .::;", was : h .d nothing to store, ad declared, .: .:. : . :r; the reater,prt
part submitted, and only fifty or sixty fled back to their B O O K rock, there to live or die lee. XIV. POLICY, which lees every thing, but is never moved by compassion, wanted utterly to exterminate or reduce this handful ol fugitives, who had escaped flown slavery or carnage; but the: soldiery, who were either perishing or spent with fa.:iue, did not rlifil f,,h a destructive si heme, which ws fill to cf thin more Blood. It was dropt for fear of a revolt. This conti, lesion was at tended with fatal confcqu ces. All the slaves grown de operate by the hardships they undcrwntc, or the dread of punishment, loon found a Shelter i te woods, where they were sure of lamenting with companions ready to assist them. The number of ftigiti\s ihccacd daily. In a soit time they dcfcrtid ly rnimps, after laing murdered their sailors, and stripped and fct sic to the habitations. In viii di tl:ey I1nil native particles after them, offering a rcwar o: 9o lies (t ;)r the hied of every negro they sould kii!. 'Ii: l;.l\ity availed them nothing, and the d bilrtil became the more genial. THE rebels growl more da; ilg as their numbers in creased. till the year 169r, th y had only fled, but when they thought t.enfeivcs throng enough to attack, they sell upon the nglifli pl .stations in depart bands, and corn ;ti horrid ravages. In vain were they drivel back to their mountains with loi ; in cain were forts erected and matted :!t pr, per dances, to pres nt their inroads 3 nlotithfland ?il this expence, and t:efc precautions they renewed their depredations from tine to time. The resentment, which the violation of the rights of nature by barbarous policy, c:aitcd in these blacks, inspired them with such fur', that t!e white people who had bought thin, in order, a- they said, to cut o theol, (! ) :'n. :;. G.l.
B O OK root of the evil, resolved in 1735 to employ all the forces xlv.,,of the colony, to destroy ajufly implacable enemy immediately the military laws took place of all civil administration. All the colonists formed themselves into regular corps. They marched forward towards the rebels by different roads. One party undertook to attack the town of Nanny, which the blacks had built in the blue mountains. With cannon, a town built without regularity and defended without artillery, may soon be destroyed; but the success of the other enterprizes was frequently doubtful, sometimes attended with much loss. The slaves, more elated by one triumph than disheartened by ten defeats, were proud of considering their former tyrants merely as enemies they were to fight with. If they were beaten, they had at least some revenge. Their blood was at least mixed with that of their barbarous masters. They rushed against the sword of the Euro pean, to plunge a dagger into his breast. At last, over powered by numbers, or by the dexterity of their anta gifts, the fugitives intrenched themselves in inaccessible places, where they dispersed in small bands, fully deter mined never to stir out, and well assured they could stand their ground. At last, after various battles and excursions, that lasted nine months, the English gave up all thoughts of subduing them. THus, sooner or later, will any people, made desperate by tyranny, or the oppression of conquerors, always get the better of numerous and well-disciplined armies; if they have but resolution enough to endure hunger rather than the yoke, to die rather than live in bondage, and if they chuse rather to ee their nation extinct than en slaved. Let them abandon the field to the multitude of troops, to the train of war, the display of provisions, -m union, and hospitals: let them retire into the hearts
of the mountains, without baggage, without coverings OO K,XIv. without Pores; nature will provide for them and defend . them. There let them remain for years, till the climate, idleness, and intemperance, have destroyed those swarms of foreign invaders, who have no booty to expect, nor any laurels to gather. Let them now and then pour down upon them, like the torrents of their own mountains, surprize them in their tents, and ravage their out-lines. Laifly, let them dcfpifc the opprobrious names of robbers and murderers, which will be plentifully bestowed upon them by people base enough to arm themselves against a handful of huntsmen, and weak enough to be unable to conquer them. SUCH was the conduct of the blacks with the English. These, weary of excursions and fruitless armaments, sell into universal despondency. The poorest among them dared not accept the lands which the government offered them at the foot of the mountains. Even the settlements at a greater distance from these formidable backs, were neglected or forsaken. Many parts of the island, which from their appearance bid fair for being some of the most fruitful, were left in their rude state; and the woods and thickets, with which they were covered, became the ter or of the inhabitants, by affording a retreat to the rebels, who were now inured to war.,IN this situation was the colony, when Trelawney was appointed governor. This prudent and humane commander well knew, that a set of men, who for near a century part, lived upon wild fruits, went naked, and ex posed to the inclemency of the weather; who, ever at war with an assailant stronger than themselves and well armed, never ceased fighting for the defence of their li betty; that such a set of men would never be subdued by open force. He therefore had recourse to pacific over-stores.
B 0 0 K turns. He offered them not only lands to cultivate, which, , should be their own pretty, but likewise liberty and in-dependence. lie consented that they should be gcernled by chief, of their own colouring, but that twice chicks fhuu!d hold their commissions of the g err-or of the sand, and act under his directed. 'I his plan, unheard of before among negroes, was accepted, and the treaty concluded in 173S, to it' - joy both parties. It ic;e.c.l to promise a laying tr r.qul.lt'; but tilhre was something inthe stipulation which laid the foundation of future diiur- bances.,WrHILST Trelawneiv v.'as negociation tis accommoda tion in the name of the crc.-n, the general assembly of the colony had proposed their separate plan t the ide pendent ncrce. This w-a, that they should engage to harbour no more fugitive flares, on condition that a stipulated full. soul i be paid them for every such deserter, whom they hould inform aga;flf, or bring back to the colony. This agreement, repugnant to humanity, we nay be sure has not t not been religiously observed. They have mutually accused ech other of dishonesty. The ne goes, but ill paid in this ha rn:ful compact, have several times begun their raw ages afrtei.,XHLTHER fired by their example, or exasperated at the ills u.!ge they n; n, h, the ne-ro f aves resolved to be free li 'wile. \osh:i:t te flames of war kindled in Europe wcie spreads; in Ait ,ina, thei wretches greed, in I;6c, to tke up arms all i c,;ie day, murder their tyrant, ian.d f-iz upon he go cil ltnint. But their patience .r i.bry disconcerted tic unanimity of the plot. Some c; the cot.'ii:;trs ocean the cxcu;:rin before the appointed time, j.' bed their n.a:lers, a.d f t fire to their ItJui ; but inJ.;:g the.; :c - a bia to relf.' te whole face of the d, hih;lr '-': ' .e-: sp!,it hed col-sheer S
leccd in a moment, they fled to the mountains. From BOOK,XIV. this impenetrable recess they were incessantly making destructive inroads. Tie FE.nLlifi, in their digress, sere reduced to cotrr the ailfan.c of the wild ne g:ces, s'ho!c independence thy had been obliged to acknowledge by a solemn treaty). hey even bribed them, .nd promised a certain fn for every late they sould kill with their own hand. Those bale Africans, unworthy of the liberty they had recovered, were net ashamed to sell the blood of their brethren : they pierced them, and killed r;any of them b surprize. At i.:l} the conspirators, we.ker.ed and bettered by their own nation, remained a icl:g time silent and inarlnie. 'I'lE fire of the conspiracy was thought to be effectually extinguished, when it broke out a.g2in with redoubled fulrv. Their numbers hind increased b de-enters from the several plantations. 'Ic regular traps, the militia, and a large body of sailors, all marched in pursuit of the slaves ; they fought and beat them in federal skirmishes; many were slain or ta!:cn prisoners, and the rest dispersed into the woods and rceks. All the prisoners were flint, hanged, or burnt. Thole who were opposed to be the ringleaders of tie conspiracy, were third alive to gibbets, and there left to perish flwiy, exposed to the scorching fun of the torrid zone; a far mo-re painful and more terrible death than that of being burnt ave. Yet their tyrants enjoyed the torments of these milier.ible wretches, whose only crime was an attempt to recover by revenge those rights which avarice .ind inhumanity had robbed them of.,T'IHE measures that were taken to prevent future insure revolts, were dictated by the fmi e liirit of barbarity. A slave is whipped in the pul'ic place, if le Flays at any game wha:le:'cr, if he r sluices to g a huntisri , or to sell any thing but milk or finn. He ca;;:ct ti out of,his
O O0 K his mailer's plantation, unless attended by a white man, or XIV. with an express permission in writing. If he beats antrum, or makes use of any other noisy instrument, his master is condemned to pay a penalty of 225 livres (u). Thus do the English, who are so jealous of their own liberty, sport with that of other men. To this excels of barbarity has the negro trade brought the usurpers of America. Such is the progress of injustice and violence. To conquer the new world, its inhabitants must be slaughtered. To replace them, negroes must be bought, as they alone are able to endure the climate and the la hours of America. To remove these Africans from their native country, who were designed to cultivate the land without having any possessions in it, it was necessary to seize them by force, and make them slaves. To keep them in subjection, they must be treated with severity. To prevent their revolt, the natural consequence of severity and servitude, these men whom we have made desperate, must be restrained by capital punishments, by hard usage, and atrocious laws. BUT cruelty itself has a period in its own destructive nature. In an infant it may cease. An enemy who should be so fortunate as to land at Jamaica, would on convey arms to these men, who are full of rancour against their oppressors, and only wait a favourable opportunity to rise against them. The French, not considering the revolt of the blacks in one colony, would probably spirit up all the rest, will be the first to bring on rich a revolution in time of war. The English, finding themselves between two fires, will be dismayed, their strength and courage will fail them, and Jamaica will fall a prey to slaves and conquerors, who will contend for dominion with fr:f encr.T.m:ies. What a train of mischief does in-justice (:) o! '.5:. ted. h.ifYer.ny.
justice bring along with it ! Crimes beget crimes ; blood B O O K,XIV. is productive of blood; and the earth becomes a scene of desolation, tears, and lamentations, where successive ge negations rise to imbrue their hands in blood, to tear out each other's bowels, and to lay each other in the dust. THE loss of Jamaica, however, would be a heavy one Advantage England. Nature has placed this island at the en gnesa sr trance of the gulph of Mexico, and made it a kind oscar. Its,difadvan- key to that rich country. All ships going from Cartilages for gena to the Havannah, muff pass that way; it is more navigation. within reach of the several trading ports on the continent, than any other island; the many excellent roads with which it is surrounded, facilitate the launching of men of war on all sides of the island. These several advantages are balanced by some inconveniences. IF it is easy to get at Jamaica by the trade winds, by taking the lesser Leeward sands, it is not so easy to get out, whether you take the streights of Bahama or the windward passage. BY the first one has the full advantage of the wind for two hundred leagues; but as on as Cape St. An tony is doubled, we meet the same wind aghast us that before was favourable: so that more time is lost than was gained, and there is also a risque of being taken by the guard costs of the Havannah. This danger is succeeded by another, which is the foals on the coast of Florida, towards which the winds and currents drive with great violence. The Elizabeth, an English man of war, would infallibly have been lost there in 746, had not Captain Edwards ventured into the Havannah. It was in time of war, and the port belonged to the enemy. "I come," said the captain to the governor, " to deliver "up my ship, ny sailors, m! soldiers, and myself into " your hands I only a the lives of my men." "No,",said
B o 0 K said the Spn.ilh commander, " I will not be guilty of so XIV. XIV H dishonorable an adnin. Had wv.e taken you in fight,,"in open ea, or upon our courts, your ship would be " ours, and you would be our prisoners. But as you " are driven in by tares of weather, and are come hi " ther for fear cf eij:g cast away, I do and ought to " forget that m nation is at war with yours. You arc " men, and ob are we: you are in iftrcfs, and have a c right to cur pits. 'You are at liberty to unload and " refit your effie, ard if you want it, ou may trade in " this port to pay you charles; you may then go away, " and you will have a ps to carry you safe beyond th " Bermudas. If after this you ale taken, you will be unlawful prize; but at this moment, I see in Englirn- " men nlv strangers for whom humanity claims our " ziftinr.ce.'" What a noble infancy of Spanish generosity is this The other way is attended with no less difficulty and danger. It terminates at a finally island, that the English call crooked island, which lies eighty leagues off Jamaica. Ships that come that way muff commonly strive against the easterly wind through the whole passage, coal along chose under St. Dcr.ngo, to keep clear of the fats cf Cuba, and then pats the Freights, between the points cf thc;e two great :i.nds, where it i very difficult to cfcp? being intercepted by their privateers or their men cf war. The navis tors coming from the Lucay's do not meet wis thence obtruc:;ics. S::iemct THESE hinds, the felt which Columbus discovered itt fn-:'iln, America, are four or five hundred in number. Mos of L-c1i s or their arc no more than rock; jl above water. Some,;;. were inhwabe'e ?' ta:vae, who were all fen: to perish in,th- sines of St. U' rm.;no. No one cf the; hd a fin 'E'c inhabit.: in i:,2-;chn the English landed a few,rn.cn
men on that called Providence, who were all destroyed B 0 0 K,XIV. by the spaniards seven or eight years after. This disaster I did not deter other Englishmen from fettling there in 1690. They had scarce built 16a houses, when the French and Spaniards jointly sell upon them in 1 73, dc fired their plantations, and carried off their negroes. The colliers, discouraged by the total loss of their sub fiance, went c!lc-.vhcrc to fck employment, and were succeeded by pirates of their nation, who after scouring the coasts of Afiica, the remotely seas of Aria, and chiefly the latitudes of North-america, found a tea and com odious retreat in the island. Here they lived unsoiled for a long time, infusing even the British flag, till George 1. routed by the clamours of his peepie, and the wishes of his parliament, in 1719, fitted out a sufficient force to subdue them. The greater part accepted the proffered amnesty, and increased the colony which woods Rogers brought with him from Europe. IT may now consist of coo persons, half of whom are fettled at Providence, and the rest dispersed in the other islands. Accustomed to live upon plunder, they retained too much of their former dispositions, and this accounts for the negligent and languid fate of their agriculture; though the variety of their soil is a constant incentive to their in duilry, their ambition, and even their fancies. It is well known, that in general it is net fertile, but there ae parts sufficiently rich to insure the property of a greater population These islands, which for want of productions have hitherto been useless to Great-britain;, may in time he serviceable from their situation, if they are not in point of trade. 'THE Lucay's, watch on one side are fr-parted from It:ridJa oi 'v v the chaniicl of E a ree' o, bri on with coller a ;:: ri'g-, which :cr;:::a:-s : ail at the point Vol I. 1 r .
B O O Kos Cuba. There some other islands, called Caicos, or xiv turks begin, lately brought under the yoke of the'Englilh navy, which continue the chain as far as the middle of the northern chaff of St. Domingo. Between these several islands, there are five passages for first-rate ships. Turk's ind and the great Caicos have lately been for ratified by the English, so that they afford a good anchorage and a safe retreat to their privateers, and command the narrow channel, which divides them from St. Domingo. By this means most of the hips coming from that rich island, muff fall into the hands of the English. If they have not built any forts on the other islands, it is because they think the superiority of their manoeuvres is sufficient without this assistance, to obstruct the navigation of their rivals. The are not so sanguine in their expectations with regard to Bermudas. Settlement This cluster of islands, distant about 3c0 leagues from of th English at the Leeward islands, was discovered in 1527 by the Spa thb Ber niard John Bermudas, who gave it his name, but did not mudas.,land there. Never had this number of islands been inhabited bv any human being, mien sixty Englishmen landed there in 16r2. The population inc.eafcdconfiderably, because the advantages of the climate were greatly exaggerated. Pecpie went thither from the Leeward islands for the re cover of their health, and from the northern colonies to enjoy their fortune in peace. Ilany royalists retired there in expectation of the death of their oppressor Cromwell. V. her among the rest, that charming poet, who was an enemy to that tyrannical deliverer, crossed the seas, and c!ebr;:cd those fortunate islands, inspired by the influence of the air, and the beauty of the prospect, which are al was .faoura'c to the poet. He imparted his enthusiasm tc !:-'.:-. fax. The En;lic !-diei never thought them-selves
selves fine or well dressed, but in stall Bermuda hats made B 0 0 K with palm leaves. XIV. BUT at last the charm was broken, and these islands sell into that contempt which their insignificance deserved. They are very numerous, and their whole compass is but fix or seven leagues. The soil is very indifferent, nd has not a single spring to water it. There is no water to drink but what is taken from wells and cisterns. Maize, vegetables and excellent fruits, afford plenty of wholesome food, but they have no commodities for exportation ; yet chance has collected under this pure and temperate sky, four or five thousand inhabitants, poor, but happy in be ing unobserved. They have no outward connexions but by some hips passing from the northern to the southern colonies, which sometimes flop to take refreshments in these peaceful islands. SOME attempts have been made to improve the circum stances of these people by industry. It has been wished that they would try to raise ilk, then cochineal, and lastly, that they would plant vineyards. But th, fe schemes have been only thought of. These islanders, consulting their own happiness, have confined their sedentary arts to the weaving of fails. This manufactory, so well adapted to plain and moderate men, grows daily more and more flourishing. FOR upwards of a century par, they have aise built hips at the Bermudas, that are not to be equalled for swiftness and durableness, and are in great request, especially for privateers. They are made of a kind of cedar, called by the French Acajou. They have endeavoured to imitate them at Jamaica and in the Bahama islands, 'where they had plenty of materials, which were grown scarce and dear in the old docks; but there nips are, and must be Far interior to their models.,hLi1 2 THE
B K THE-principal! i:inhbitnts of the Bermuda islands have XIV.,formed a i*ci't ) in 765, the statutes of which arc, perhaps, the most :c;pecable monument that ever dignified human.;:v. Thevvir' sinuous citizens have engaged them fel-es t form a bray of all books of husbandry, in wha;c:cr 'anu.igeC they have been written ; to procure to ri! cppalb' persons, of both sexes, an employment suitable to their disposition; to bellow a reward on tvcry man who hs introduced ito the colon - any new art, or con tribute to the improvident of any one already known; ;o gi a pension to every drily-workman, who after l.: in; a:;uoufly continued hi: labour, and maintained a Zo ch'ra .r for forty years, Call not ha e been able to lay by a clock sufficient to aglow him to pass his latter days in quiet; and lasty, to indemnify every inhabitant of erne da, who l:!l hate been oppreClid either by the mifiiicr or the .3.aSratz. MAY there advantages ever be served to these in du:iricus though indigent people; happy in their labour ard in their poverty, which keeps their morals untainted. Thevvy en!io the benches of a pure and serene shy, with health and with peace of mind. Thevv poison of luxury has never insulted them. Thevvy arc not themselves addicted to envy, nor do the, excite i in others. Thevv rage of ambition and ;:-;; is extinguished upon their ccafis, as the storms of the caen that surround them are broken. Thevv virtuous man would willingly cross the seas to enjoy the fight of their frugality. Thevv are total acquainted with what passes in the part of the world we lire in, and it will be happy for them to remain in their Ignorance. ENGLAND drew from ll her flourishing colonies butjuaf f,-ar enough or !her own consumption, and only part oi rec .ec and cotton tt wV, wa need at home, no cocoa, aei. t'0 indigo. 'lcrI ltc coni;u sis in America hare en-,ri.icJ
ticked her commerce with some additional articles of cx- B 0 K potation. .x AT the head of her new acquisitions ands the island The Eng-,hll, t.,e of Tobago, which measures about thirty leagues round. ,sin It is not, a mail of the other Ca-i'bbec islands, full of tof l i-,I lnd of barren rocks, or unwholesome morass. fine even plain; Toh,,o, are here crowned with hi's, whole cole assent is every ,which haI where fit fr tillage. From ilscer hills ili, iiiiu:mcrabrl pi b the spring, molt of which seem purptfclc intended to turn 'u till" the ;lfuar-n ils. The il, which i Pletilncsa sandy, is i.-cnh. constantly black and deep. There are IL:fc n;d commodious harbours along the north and weft idee of the island, which i, not exp(,l(d to the dreadful urricn:ie that aire so dcfiruei c in other parts. Poihlby, it owe this i:- cfiimablc advnt:ac to the vicinity of the continent. TOC, AGO has formerly been excccdig!y populous, if we may credit tradition; but its atillhoity is rather doubtful. The inhabitants long witlliod the fierce and frequent attacks of the ;forage frn te cc.ntiicn;, ho were stubborn and hic e.orlc.i abs conies. At last, wearied out with these iccllin; inroads, they dpcrfcd into the adjacent blinds. THAT whlih they had forsaken, 1.iy pen to invasion from Europe. Two hundred inatisioi F lefiincn landed there in 1632, to lathe foundation c a i)ut ci.s1lon;y. The neighbouring Indians joined with the Spaniards of Tri city hand, to opp(efe an: cthiblifhi en thl:t g: \e ulrbragc to bc:h. WVI:oever attempted to slop their fury, was murdered or taken prisoner ; and time lew wilt ci;c.d into the woods, soon deserted the illi'.d.,'OR twenty )ears the i)utclh forgot a fctt!cminct which was only noted for the triflers ,Io its oli i i. In 1654, a frees colony was sent there, which v :s di:;cni way ill tic. The English were soon drepivcd o: this collt;ucft,L 3 by
B 0 0 K by the French; but Lewis XIV. satisfied with having XIV. ^ c conquered it, restored it to his ally the republic of Holland. This settlement succeeded no better than the other farming colonies of that commercial nation. he motives that determine so many pe sons from other countries to go to America, cu=ht never to haste influenced the Dutch. '1 her own country agonies eery possible advantage for trade, and they hive no need to go abroad to mare their fortune. A happy toleration, purcell-ed like their !ibrt),, . irh risers of bl.scd, at-it Cases conc. ce free, fs that no religious rules can induce timorous minds to banish htiern:,ve from their native country. The government makes uti ample provision for the re lief and employment of the poor, that none are under a necessity of going abroad, and exposing themselves t the hardships of a climate, which seldom fails to destroy the new comers. Tobago, therefore, never had more than 1200 men, employed in te culture of a little tobacco, cotton and indigo, and of fix sugar plantations. THE colony was confined to this scanty exertion of in dairy, when it was attacked by the very fine nation that had restored it to its former rights of pcffrlfon and pro party. In the month of February 1677, a French fleet, destined to seize upon Tobago, sell in wkih the Dutch sheet that was went out to oppose this expedition. They engaged in the very road of the island, which became famous from this memorable action in an age abounding with great events. The oinacy and valour on both sides was such, that they il continued fighting, when every (hip was dismasted, and unrigged, and no sailors left to work them. The engagement did not cease till twelve vessels were burnt, and a great number sunk. The aflailers lost the fewest men, and the defendants kept possession of the island.,BUT
BUT d'Eftrees, who was determined to take it, landed B 0 0 K there the same year in the month of December. There XIV. was the: no fleet to obfirua or retard his progress. A bomb thrown from his camp, blew up their powder magazine. This proved, as it generally does, a decisive stroke; and the enemy, unable to relilr, surrendered at discretion. The conquerors availed themselves to the utmost of the right of war: not content with dismantling the fortifications, they burnt the plantations, seized upon all the ships in the harbour, and transported the inhabitants from the island. The conquest of this place was secured to France by the peace that on followed an action in which defeat was attended with no marks of disgrace and victory with no advantage. THE court of Versailles neglected this important island to such a degree, as not to send a single man thither. Perhaps, in the delirium of salle grandeur, they beheld with indifference whatever was merely profitable. They even entertained an unfavourable opinion of Tobago, and imagined it was only a barren rock. TL.is error gained ground from the behaviour of the French, who finding themselves too numerous at Martinico, went over to the islands of St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Dominica. These were precarious possessions, and not very eligible as to the soil. Should not the preference naturally have been given to an island where the land was better, and the property incontestable ? Such was the reasoning of a go government, which was not then sufficiently enlightened concerning the trade and plantations of the colonies, to discern the true motives of this dislike the subjects had to Tobago. AN infant colony, especially when it is founded with slender means, cannot subsist without immediate distance No progress is to be expected, but as the first pro-,L 1 4 dubious
B o 0 Kdulions find consumers. The prosecutions are generally, XIV. . of a common frt, will not pay the charges of exportation to any felice, and, therefore, will hardie sell but in the neighbourhood, and ought insensibly and by moderate profits, to lead to the undertaking f tihoie great cul turns which are t',e objet of commerce between Europe and the Leev.-ad islands. Now, 1-obao i too remote from the great i rene h fticrnents, to attract inhabitants by such a gradation ot success. they will give the pre serene o left fitful islands, that ale within reach of other colonie ,Tis !c'.; cnr.cition into hiicih it was fallen did net prc;;;'.t i: fro;. ttr.ic.;ng the attention of England. 'that proud if.nd, which thinks hcr:le!t the queen of all others, because he is the most flourishing, pretended to have an undoubted r;lht to thea of ' oban, because it hd once been i I.cr i';:'.liio for fx months. tier forces have cor.irr.ed her percent n, and the peace of 1763 hi ju;lifiad the faces of her arms, by ceding to her a p,s- feocn will fe will turn to better ac-ltr than the French ever cd. ALtOsT 1 the settlement i the I.ccw-rd islands hare proved fatal to the First consists, who a.,i: at a.1 elltu!c, without t the concurrence of the mother country, con mitcd i:cr equal blunders Their gree dir cii would inst .user tlrl to foil,' the method of the nati e, who, to abate tie influence cf a ccn.:int forcing fun, used ;o icparLte the fiat parcels f land which they week forced to clc-.r, vi:th large pacha covered with trees and shady thickets. 'I les savages, instructed by experience, fixed their Lwr;:ills in the i'.d;e of tee wood., to preserve themfeirr. s from the quick and dangerous c h lat:'!rs of a,e:s i r.e>'o)v turned up.,Tits
THE destroyers of this wise people, being too eager after B 0 0 K their profits, dcrpilfd this method as too lost, and be rr, impatient to cultivate a!!, precipitate -!'; ut down while forests. Upon this stick vapours arr.fc trm:li the round, which at first was heated by the rays of the hun. These increased a, the earth ws mitred up for fusing nd planting. I heir malignant partlrks i;.finullated them selves into every pre, and every <oic.n of the husbandman who by hard labour was constantly kept in a pro fife perspiration. The crculiti 1i of the fluids was flapped all the viscera were lil.teil, tir body swelled, the stomach could r.o hunger pe:firi its functions, and death ensued. Thole who escaped thc;c pestilential influences by day, loll their lives by-leciig in huts hastily run up upon a fresh fL,i, where vegetation was too give, and so unwh(,ci:ei,e that it confirmed the men before it could nourish the plaits. FROM th er oblations it apl'eair, that th: following would be the bet plan vhiclh (ould be pursued in the establishing of a new colony. At our first arnlx-i, it should be observed what winds are n:olf condition in ti-(,:e parts, and it v.uld be found that they blow regularity from the southeast and nor'ih all. If .e were .at liberty to chuse, and met with no obilaclc front the I.;tlre of tl:e ground, we .gould take care not to fix on tile leeward side, lit the v.'ini should be continually burning to us the vapours o t new-tilled grounds, and i!;rc. from the exhalations of the new plantations a piece of land that might have been purified iii time. (ur colony should, therefore, be founded on the winl;vard hide of whatever country we mean to cultivate. First all the habitations should be built in the wood, and not a tree be steered to be felled about them. The woods are wholesome; the veficfinlig (hade they afford, a:d the cool air we br.eathe,,C'C ll
B O O Keen in the heat of the day, are a preservative against XIV.,that excessive perspiration, which is the destruction of most Europeans, by the dryness and acrimony of an in flammabie blood, deprived of its fluid Parts. We should keep fires in the huts all night, to dispel any noxious air that might have entered. This custom which is con faintly praised in fie parts of Africa, would be as luc cesful in America, where the climate is much the same. AFTER having taken thee precautions, we might begin to cut down the woods, but it hould be at leapt at fifty toises distance from the huss. When the ground was laid bare, the aves should not be sent out to their work till ten o'clock in the morning, when the fun has had time to divide the vapours. and the ind to drive them away. The four hours lost after fun rise, would be fully compensated by sparing the fircng:h cf the la sources, and the preservation of human knd. This at mention should be continued as long as any lands are clear ing or owing, till the ground was thoroughly purged and fettled, when the people might with safety be out at all hours. Experience has already justified the necessity of all there measures the English having forti fettled on the leeward side of Tobago, the) died in great numbers, and lost a great numbers laves, tho' they all came at the same time from the neighbouring colonies. Grown wiser by this disaster, they removed to windward, and the mortality ceased. This settlement, which was to have been entered upon immediately after the peace, has been greatly retarded, be cause the custom that prevails in England, of selling the lands of their islands, is attended with numberless forms, which have prevented the clearing of them. It was not till the year 1765 that 40,cco acres of land have been allotted, divided into lots of co acres each. A second,allotment
allotment has since been made, but in both, no one B 0 0 K planter has been allowed to purchase more than one lot. XIV. This law has extended to St. Vincent and Dominica, with this difference only, that in the last island, the lots were but of 300 acres. In all the three acquisitions, the land has sold but for 22, or 28 livres) an acre. The purchase money has been paid by instalments. One fifth was paid down at the.time; ten per cent. the two first years, and afterwards twenty per cent. till the whole was difchar ed. . very planter is alio obliged to tint a white man and two white women for every hundred acres he shall clear. But here a difficulty occurs. The English by putting two women and but one man upon a plantation, bring themselves into the dilemma of either leaving one woman without a husband, or the man with two wives. This is either admitting polygamy, which christianity forbids, or celibacy, which protestants will not allow: for it is not to be supposed that in America the English will chuse to intermarry with the blacks. However this may be, every planter muff comply with this injunction, or forfeit 450 livres) for every woman and double that sum for every man that is wanting. NOTWITHSTANDING this kind of restraint, the disposition of the English leaves no room to doubt, but that Tobago will emerge in their hands from the utmost wretchedness, to the greatest degree of prosperity. At that brilliant period, it will surpass all the possessions they have acquired in America, in excellence and the abundance of its productions. Those speculators who are best acquainted with the nature of the soil, and base able to judge what it is capable of producing in proportion to its extent, make no scruple to affirm, that the island will yield 50,000 hogsheads of raw sugar yearly to stepmother (w) tes. 3d. or l, s. 6d, (x) el. I3Y. 9d
B O O K mother country, besides other articles of lester value. In,X nir. it will furpaa's Jamaraci, and increase the wealth,of Grenada. France THE island of Grenada lies to lec.-ard of Tobago, is cedes Grey r.td ta but nine or ten !Agues long, sci broad in the widest England. part, and tw.'cntv or t.vcntv two in circumference. The tance an pains ane icae':c. bt a :cew mon:nairs of a moderate prcdui.- height, and a pci ious number f pretty large springs. that i2.d.,There is so capacious a harbour to Seward, that sixty men of war ma ride" t thrill ease, and with so much safety, that they right ia';e then !es the trouble of calling ancor.,THouGH the French, acquainted with the fertility of Grenada, had intended fctt;ill there, as erl as the wear 1638, yet they never broth; this project to bear till 165i. At their arrival, they gave a ew hatchets, some knives, and a aEr;c of brand' to the chief of the savages they found hcrc ; and iragi t hd burgh d they hd puchad the island with h ti. ri. e, zcualiy aL.-ued the sovereignty, znd soon carse t 'rants. The Caribbees, unable to contends h them y! oc-n force, took the method which veak:nc!s a:'wys inspires to spec! oppression; they mur tered a:I whom tess suns alone and defenceless. The troops t:--were fen: to Ill port tie infant colony, fc'un ro i.-fee or readier ta lilian to destroy all the natives. The remainder of the - poor v.rctches took refuge upon a sleep rock, chusing rather to ca tl:her.fehles do.'.: headlong from the trip, than to fell into the hands cf an implacable iron;. .Te Fitnr inconsiderately c:'ldli this rock ;c y.;t;r d, j' :.i- .;s, tIe ihi'l of the reapers, arid ie si;, recline tha: on.: c.,T's:Y wc rc ic:ui'. pn:r.i;fc. far ail these cruelties b-h a rpa:-cus, icir.t .r. i inflexible srvcrnor. I\.tos ot she co'.i.ft-e no i :r a' :' , endure his t.r:.-.:, retired
to Martinico, and those who remained cn the il. :d B 0 0 K,'1V. condemned him to death after a formal trial. in the . . whole court that tried this miscreant, only one colt write, whose n::tme as Archlinrgcli. A lackfinith was the person th:!t impeached, who, iced of the signature scale; with hoi stifle, and Arhangeii, who per formed the office of clerk, woe gtlavcly round it: marque ae .\'is t7.'r at .i Bt ic, :te iSl,r t' / crt,'ur. THY were apiprelhenfi e ter cut of Fiance would not ratify this extraordinary tina, cic on with Such unuf:a! formalities, thouLn d.ia;id hy common fcnfc. !Mist of the jiudcs of th crim, :::d w:itncfis of the cxciiun dirfJ'pp: red f-m credit. ionele remained but such obscure people a were b:ie.lth te notice of the laws. The estimate taken in 1700 fluxes, that there wee o the island but 251 white people, 53 free lvages or mulattoes, an! 525-.a'cs. The cattle was reduced to 64 horses, and 59 head of horned cattle. The whole culture consisted of three plantations of sugar, and fifty two of indigo. THE face of things was quite changed tarts the year 1714 and this was owing to .ianthiico. 'That island was then laying the foundation of a splendour that was to ailonifli all .lions. It tent immense prods:óó:ons to France, and receiver. choice commodities in rctrn:. The molt valuable of these thy sent to the Sa:lilh coasts. Their ships touched at Grenada in their way to take in refreshments. The trading privateers who under took this navigation, taught: the .ceIple of that flared the value of their fil, which only W2incd tillage. Com mnerce makes every this easy. Some traders furnished them with fl.: s and iin:cr-ts ts r-z. ;:v i:' : r plantations An open aco:::rt w:.s -: 'ii; led between the tws co!onicr. (r':ad: 2 ; .;. is '.n itr csb: gradually,lby
B O O K by its rich produce, and the balance was on the point of , . .being fully made up, when the war in 1744 cut off excommunication between the two islands, and at the same time flopped the progress of the sugar plantations. They supplied this loss by the culture of coffee, which they pursued, during the hostilities, with all the activity and eagerness that industry could inspire the peace of 1748 revived all the labours, and open ed all the former sources of wealth. In 1753, the po pulsation of Grenada consisted of 1,262 white people; 175 free negroes; and 11,991 slaves. The cattle amounted to 2,298 horses or mules; 2,456 head of horn ed cattle; 3,278 sheep; 902 goats; 331 hogs. The cultivation rose to 83 sugar plantations; 2,725,600 cos see trees; 15c,300 cocoa trees, and 800 cotton plants. For their provision they had 5,740,450 trenches of caf fada; 933,596 banana trees, and 143 squares of potatoes and yams. The colony made a rapid progress in proportion to the excellence of its soil Those obstinate fevers and dropsies which for thirty years had consumed the men as fast as they cut down the woods, would have subsided when the whole had been cleared. But the French have lost their hopes and their treasures. They will no longer enjoy the wealth of Grenada. They deserve, however, the misfortunes that have baffled their too tardy precautions; They are passionately fond of premature and unbounded enjoyment: that malady, that has tainted the govern ment of a nation which yet deserves the affection of her mailers; that prodigality, which reaps when it should sow; which destroys the past with one hand, and the future with the other, which dries up and devours the flock by anticipating the income; that confusion, which results from the distresses any state must bring itself into, that has neither principles nor experience, that has powers,and
and no views, means, and no conduct; that anarchy 0 0 K,XIV. which prevails at the helm; that precipitation; that ca balling among inferiors ; the impropriety or total want of projects; on one hand, the audacity of doing any thing with impunity; on the other, the fear of speaking, even for the public good : this long train of evils has thrown Grenada into the hands of the English, who are in possession of this conquest by the treaty of 763. How long will this lat ? And will the colony never be restored to us? ENGLAND has not set out properly. In the first en enthusiasm raised by an acquisition which they had the highest opinion of, every one was in a hurry to purchase estates. They sold for much more than their real value. This caprice, by driving out old colonists, who were inured to the climate, has sent thirty-five or thirty-fix millions of livres ()) out of the nation. This imprudence has been followed by another. The new proprietors, blinded no doubt by national pride, have substituted new methods to those of their predecessors. They chose to alter the way of the slaves. The negroes, who, from their very ignorance, are more attached to their old customs than other men, revolted. They have been obliged to send out troops, and to shed blood. The whole coionv was filled with suspicion. The masters who had said themselves under a necessity of using violent methods, were afraid of being murdered in their own plantations, or burnt in their beds. The work has gone on slowly, or been quite stopped. At length all grew calm again. The number of slaves has been increased as far as 40,000; and the produce has been raised to the treble of what it vas under the French governmental 0j) On an average about r,553,oIo.
B O K Site plantations will still be improved by the neigh-,- V. boyhood of a dozen of islands, called the Grenadines,,that are dependent on the colony. They are from three to eight leagues in circumference. They do not afford a single spring of water. The air is un.vhclcfome; the grounds cared only wil thin bushes, has not been f.crcnc. sri nth fun: it exhales none of thole noxious vapours whirl are stal to the husbandman. CA IACOu, the on!h one of the Grend-ines which the French he occupied, as at firs frequented by turtle :r.crr:r.en, who, hin trie leisure as;.r.d them by so ea-y a trade, empltryd th.rr,;.c-es in c! levi the round. In process of time their fa!! r.nr.mcr was increased by the accession cf fomr.z cf the inhabitants of Guadalupe, who finding that their plantations were dethroned by a particular fort of ans, removed to Cariacou. There they enjoyed the fleets of liberty, and thir industry vas crowned with success. ' hey collect about twelve hun died saves, by whose labours they made themselves a e- venue of four or five hundred thousand livres () in cotton. The other GrC;r. .dne are not so promising, though the plantation of sugar is begun there. it has succeeded rer:kablvy weil at Beou'a, the iau-:,r .and mos fertile of thes viands, which is n' more ths two leagues di fiat from St. Vincent. Th E.n- When the English a!d w French, who for some years . c-n hz d been ravaging the Windward islands, began to give st. vnr- some confidence to their settlements, in the year 166c, r.: citie t"'y agreed that l arnica an St. Vincent should be lft,-: to the Caribs as their nrorcrtv. Cc. f ree favacs, ':, !:.'i who tail tin ha. ben deil t d, retired into the far:cr,,ar the c::-;: : into th: latter. Thier :hee quiet,an (. :0 :. L; - c n i5 ol
ind moderate men, lovers of peace and silence, lived in l 0 0 K the woods, in scattered families under the guidance of XIV. an old man, whom his age alone had advanced to the dignity of ruler. The dominion poised successively in to every family, where the oldest always became the king, that is to say, the guide and father of the nation. These ignorant savages were still unacquainted with the sublime art of subduing and governing men by force of arms of murdering the inhabitants of a country to get possession of their lands; of granting to the conquerors the property, and to the conquered the labours of the conquered country and in process of time, to strip both of the fruit of their toil by arbitrary taxes. THE population of there children of nature was suddenly augmented by a race of Africans, whose origin was never positively ascertained. It is said that a hip, carry ing negroes for sale foundered on the coast of St. Vin cent, and the slaves who escaped from the wreck, were received as brethren by the savages. Others pretend that there blacks were deserters, who ran away from the plan nations of the neighbouring colonies. A third tradition says, that this foreign race comes from the blacks that the Caribs took from the Spaniards, in the first wars be tween those Europeans and the Indians. If we may credit Du Tertre the oldest historian that has written on the Leeward islands, those terrible savages, who were so inveterate against their masters, spared the captive slaves, restored them to liberty that they might enjoy life, that is, the common blessings of nature, which no man has a right to withhold from any of his fellow-creatures. Tins vas not all. The proprietors of the island rave their daughters in marriage t these ftrlrg-.'r, and !i' ree that sprang from this mixture, were called [lack Curbs. They liv preserved more of th: primitive colour of their VOL. III. MI m thcrs,
B 0 O K fathers, than of the lighter hue of their mothers. The,. red Caribs ar: of a lo stature ; the black Caribs tall and flout; and this doubly fa age race speak with a vehemence that looks like anger. IN time, however, some differences arose between the two nations. The people of Martinico, perceiving this, resolved to take advantage of their divisions, and rise on the ruins of both parties. Their pretence was, that the black Caribs gave shelter to the saves who deserted from the French islands. Imposture is always productive of injustice. Those who were falsely accused, were after wards attacked without reason. But the smallness of the numbers went out against them; the jealousy of those who were appointed to command the expedition; the dessein of the red Caribs, who refused to supply such dangerous allies with any of the succours they had promised them, to ac against their rivals ; the impossibility of coming up with enemies who kep: themselves concealed in woods and mountains; all these circumstances conspired to disconcert this ran and violent enterprize. They were forced to give it up, after owing r.any valuable lives; bt the triumph the savages obtained, did not prevent them from filling for peace as suppliants. They even invited the French to come and live with them, swearing sincere friendship and inviolable concord. The proposal was agreed to; and the next year, 1719, many of the inhabitants of Martinico re moved to St. Vincent.,THSE first who came thither, fettled peaceably, not only with the content, but by the assistance of the red Caribs. This success induced others to follow their example; but these, whether frcmjealoufy or fonte other motive, taught the sages a secret that proved cry fatal to tim. That pe(;'le, who knew of no property but the fruits of the earth, because they arc the reward of l. our, learnt with afioniih-,r.ent,
ment, that they could sell the earth itself, which thebaid B 0 o K,xIv. always looked upon as belonging to mankind in general. , This knowledge induced them to nicaiure, and fix boundaries ; and from that instant peace and happiness were banished from their island. The partition of lands oc cautioned divisions amongst men. These were the causes of the revolution produced by this fyfrcm of property. When the French came to St. Vincent, they brought slaves along with them, to clear and till the ground. The black Caribs, (hocked at the thoughts of resembling men who were degraded by slavery, and fearing that one time or other their colour which betrayed their origin, might be made a pretence for enslaving them, took refuge in the thickest parts of the forest. In this situation, in order to imprint an indelible mark ofdiltincion upon their tribe, that might outstanding token of their independence, they flat tenet the foreheads of all theirchildrenas on as they were born. The men and women, whose heads would not bend to this strange shape, dared no longer appear in public without this visible sign of freedom. The next generation started up as a new race. The flat headed Caribs, who were nearly of the same age, tall proper men, hardy and fierce, came and created huts by the sea-side. THEY no sooner knew the price which the Europeans set upon the lands they inhabited, but they claimed a share with the other sanders. This rising spirit of covet oufnefs was at first appeased by fume presents of brandy, and a few sabres. Butnot content with these, they on de handed fire-arms, as the red Caribs had ; and at lat they were desirous of having their share in all future sales of land, and likewise in the produce of pat sales. Provoked at ing denied a part in this brotherly repartition, they formed into a fcpar.:tc tribe, wore nee r more to ab-nim n 2 ciatc
B 0 O K cite with the rcJ Caribs, choir a chief of their own ant. X ,V 'declared vwr.,THE numbers of the combatants might be equal, but their ftrer;ngh was not so. The black Caribs had all that atlanta e over the rd, that industry, valour, and bold ness, must soon acquire over a weak habit and a timorous disposition. But that spirit of equity, which is fldomn deficient in savages, made the conqueror consent to share with the vanquished all the territory lying to the leeward. It was the only one which both parties coveted, because there they were sure of getting presents from the French. THE black Caribs gained nothing b the agreement which they themselves had drawn up. The new planters who came to the island, always landed and fettled near the red Caribs, where the cast was most accessible. This pre france routed that enmity which was but ill extinguished. The war again broke out. The red Caribs, who were always beaten, retired to windward of the island. Many took to ther canoes, and went over to the continent or to Tobago; and the few that remained, lived separate from the blacks. THE black Caribs, conquerors and masters of all the leeward coast. required of the Europeans that the) should again buy the lands they had already purchased. A French man attempted to shew the deed of this purchaSe of some land, which he had bought of a red Carib. I knew act, says a lack Carib-wat rl!y paper jas ; but read what is 'ritter cn n my crvrcw. Twere itn many jfe i char ;7srs which dj erst lye, that if tcu ds c:t give r.r c.'ait I emcnd, I ill gC a:d urn rear bruce ta-nig In this manner did a people, who had not learnt to read, argue with those who derived such consequence from knowing how to write. They made use of the right f force, with as mulch assurance, ad as little senior', as if they had been acquainted with divine, political', and civil ight.,TIMnE.
TilE, whilst brings on a change of measures with a B 0 0 K change of interests, put an end to these disturbances. XIV. The French no longer spent their time in breeding poultry raising vegetables, canada, maize and tobacco, in order to sell them at Martinico. In left than twenty years, more important cultures employed 800 white men and 3000 blacks. The yearly sale of these new commodities amounted to ,50,ooo livris('a). lie island of St. Vincent was in ths situation when it sell into the hands of the English. It was secured to them by the treaty of 1763. THE French. who had begun to clear this country, which till then had :sways remained uncultivated, enter gained not the Ici doubt as to their tile to the lands. '1 hey held their property of the original inhabitants, il ho might, perhaps, have dilpolifd f a territory which nature had given them. How great was their surprize, when they were informed that Great-britain, which wa in no that either with them or with the Caribs, thought herself authorized to strip them, unless they would redeem those very fields they had cultivated with their own hands, and founded her right on principles adopted inEurop '! In vain did they remonstrate against an oppression so contrary to the order of nature, and even to the law of nations. Their com plaints were disregarded. The chief men of the colony dared not suspend the orders sent from the nimtlhr-country, to sell the lands indiscriminately. The parliament proposed by this trifling pr-fit, to supply the deficiencies which the expences o the war had made in the licafury. But this end was not answered. The 1,575,0o hlvres(b), which arose from the concessions made in the three neutral islands, were aloft wholly dissipated ill vain formalities. If even the axiom of the Europeans, that tale and,M m 3 bar (a) 65,651/. (b) Near 6,oool/
B OO Barbarous axiom, that th !hands inhabited by savage are Xiv,, to be considered as vacant could have been rifled by the English, who, like the Spaniards, hd tb often availed themselves of it, to n,kc usurpations; if the French hd not had a right to purchase, what they had at leIf had a right to steal; if they ha] no by their labour acquired a law ful title to thole Ln;d, which the) had obtained by presents; in flor:, if the public treasury f England, exhausted by a war that was, perhaps, unjust, was to be replenished by the extortions of the peace, and the profits of these unlawful sales: still it was contrary to their own interest and to their principles of political economy, thus to plunder industrious men, wil should ha-.e accelerates the im provemtnt of colony which the themcclrvcs had founded. BuT the severity of the new established government made them disperse. Some went over to St. martin, Marigalantc, Guadalupe, and Mlrtinico, but the greater part to St. Lucia, which bco.n to be pp!ed b granting lands to those ho wc'ild car them. The, all brought away their fla es. The expiration, hocv-e-e, was not universal. Some Frenchmen, Ifs attached to their relations, and less fend of their wen country, which had in a manner c-i ten o', chops to rain under the oke of the coqr.quc: r cn: the circle spot where fortune had thrown them. When ice emotions of content 'vere paI]i.d, they considered the should gain more by redeeming their own land, than by l Letting upon fresh grounds that would xcii them nothing. 'IHIrx fr.: i;ne, which had never yet been upon any solid foundation, r.' acquire firmness and vigour under the p-or:e;Eicn cis L-::li. government. The island, which the. itharc with their new iciiow-citizens, tho' it does not pr.mii mu :h cotton, is very favourable tc the culture of the arnc:c a ;id cocoa. Before the ccncu es, they gathecred,thrc
three million weight of coffee, the culture of which B 0 o K,XIV. might with ease be considerably increased, if the attention . of the English was not totally engaged in the plantation of sugar. That part of St. Vincent they were fettled in which is on the leeward fd , supplied them on y with a a small quantity, because it is rugged and hilly. This circumstance made them desirous of occupying the plains on the windward side. The Caribs, who had taken re fige there, have refused to vacate them, and the English have had recourse to arms to compel them to it. Though they defend themselves with great courage, they will sooner or later submit to the yoke of European tyranny. May the shames of war not eien-l themselves to Dominica ! THIS island is somewhat larger than St. V in went. It The Eng-,lith efta- is thirteen leagues in length, and nine at most in breadth; h',I., 'toland in the center are inaccessible mountains, which pourli!-'e at down numerous rivers of excellent water, upon fruitful llIg, oft but uneven grounds. this eti1- THIS country was inhabited by its own chi!lrcn. In bli 1732, 938 Caribs were found there, living in 32 carbets, and 349 French people lived in a missis t by the fal-fide which the Caribs had forsaken. Thee' Europeans had no other assistance, or rather companions of their la hours, but 23 free mulattoes, and 338 sites. They were ail employed in breeding poultry, in rising provisions for the consumption of Marrlnico, and cultivating ]2,ZCo cotton shrubs. These trifling productions were afterwards enriched by the addition of coffee. At lasS, the hand contained co white people, and co blacks, at the peace of 1;03, when it beame an Elis co lony.,BEFoRE the end of the last century, Great-Britain, who was advancing towards the dominion of the seas, whilst file accused France of grasping at the monarchy m 4 of
B . K of the c !;i:incl:, had saved as much eagerness for Do t i.!i ,.4 as fe did in the l-te negociations, when vilory,gave her a right to chuse. It was not for the fake of coffee, cocoa, or cotton, which, however, the En;i!ith may multiply there beyond their hopes, nr et for the fake of far, c.f which thy must not exipet more than three or four thul.:id hogsheads a ear, and that only in process torn-.n ol'.j of greater importance than fettle. nl f r c,.;i'.:ion, entered into ther distant po political views,' he port that the Ln:-'!if aimed at, was to draw all the cormod.iics oi the Fiench colonies to Dominica, an' to true win th .em ti;enlelecs; and, ine.ccd, till the nation, who;' fortune has sunk with her glory, can re cot-er her ri:i;i', and by the strength of her navy can be enabled in ille measure to fettle the pice of her commodity, a;.d reticent their being conti jd from their f:-'emr.n:s hb a con:tr:Lbzi trade : till that auspicious time cmr.cs, h reciprocal ir.terct of the Fiench plasters ad the Enngiflh merchants wei bff.c all the en deav'ors of the court or c eraiiles. The intercourse wil be kept up by means of rise od colonies remaining at lomnniica, r.ut:thfita:;lng th hard ufa they n;-t with in being treated u t e new government like those of t. \ inc::t. Ths, is not, however, the on, complaint they hae a .' zi:i tie Engl'h m;r.itry. Whiles they man ever'. harbour in th in d free port, they hai'. laid a dut of thir t-th'ci ilres, fifteen fous () upon every negro tht snout be imported; have even carried their irnmlpde;t aliity ;;i far, as to require a part of this auur.i tax tn the pad l';f.re the sale: so that the Guinea-t'dcrs 7;.a br;;i money to Dominica, or borrow i; there u';-c: x:r:a:ga-t terms; which :mus make them,cautous (c) il. ?s. 6'.
cautious of coming, or inhancethe price of the commodity; BOO K a price low indeed in the eyes of humanity, but already Xcv. too high in those of avarice ,BuT the gre t advantage of this island fur the English, is its being situated between Guadalupe and Martini, at a small distance from each, o as to le equally-harming to both. Its safe and commodious roads v.iil enable the English privateers and 1'quadirolis to intercept without risque the navigation of France in her colonies, and even the communication between the two islands. England seems to have Secured at the perce every defile and eery posh again the next war. Let us now resume the ex animation of her collections. When we freak of a ma time and commercial power, an iuiry into thee value of its colonies, is tearing .an eslim.i.e ,f its frznvih.,THE number ot flies employed in the ng;ifh islands, Client is about 230,:co; but their labour proves eI ls tan the tale if til,Brithil if. like number in the French critics. I'his difference lands. may be owing to three fe.,cral caafcs. The soil of the British filaments was originally worse, and is now more exhausted by long culture. ' he care of the plan nations is commonly committed to mercenaries, who are neither so diligent, to intelligent, nor so oeconomical as the proprietors. The nimthcds of clearing and improving the lands have not yet attained to the same degree of perfection. THE population of white people in the French co ionics in proportion to the lacks, is as one to fix whereas in the English colonies it is seldom mole than one to eleven. the rcf.n is, that the latter are con fined to agriculture, and the former embrace both agri culture and trade. As they are both however carried on at Barbadoes that deals in slav's, and at Jamaica that has formed contraband connexions with the Spanidr,coafs,
BO OK coasts, the white population ould be greater there in XIV. proportion to the black, than in the other fettiements,under the fine dependence. THIS disproportion between the black and white people has not always been te fie in the English co ionics. They formerly contained a great number of Eu romans, but they hive disappeared, as the lesser cultures have made war for sugar plantations, which tke up a great deal of room. '1 hey are ft.civffvely gone over to new islands, have retired to North Am rica, or hu' e re turned to the mother country. Not tit th, re vwcr as many indigent and idle me n m ' r nes. as a the time of the first emi-rations from Eure; c to America; b::t the spirit of adventure and clttrprze, which-wa raised by the novelty of the ohiec and other concurring circum faces, fat frcm being encouraged, has been fixed by the painters. in ain did the laws require every pro praetor to have a number of white men proportionable to the blacks upon his plantation; these regulations were ineffectual. They chuse rather to run the rilue of pay ing the penalty, which costs them !le than their com pliancy. But the deficiency in the number of white men is compensated by the advantages they enjoy. ALL t:;e inhabitants of the Elis islands are regiment This friction, which neither exposes them to the caprices of a clverr.cr, nor to the insulting pride of regular troops, neither degrades nor stands any body. If this militia is inferior in point of discipline to the Euro pean fiery, they far exceed them in ardor and courage. If their numbers were fufiacicnt to cope with an enemy whose go ernmnnt is aiiiolt a n:iliiry ene, they would save the mother couiry ; he trouble of lending troops, at n inmmci.le expence and great risques, who tor the most pr;t per ; without dein any thing. But ths, militia of,the
the colonies is hardly sufficient to keep the blacks in awe, B O O K who are always ready to rise and cannot brook the Eng- . lish yoke; for it sould seem tht slavery was more intolerable in a free action, where it is more unjust and more inconsistent with :ts character than in others. It is frange that milan w ho is :;o fnl cf independence, should no sooner shake off the yoke. but ie wants to put it on the necks of others, and that ;hose who are molt impatient of con trout, should be the fondest of dominion. Though Great Britain has never laid any direct tax upon her colonies, they are more heavily taxed than those which belong to less moderate governments. Left to shift for themselves, they have been obliged to provide for their own safety, and to guard against the dilates caused by the great commotions of nature which are so frequent in those climates. Forced to repair the mischiefs of war, and to puc themselves in a posture of defence, they have erected fortifications by voluntary contributions; thefehave been large, but ruinous by the debts they have been obliged to contract:. The civil administration, in manifest con tradition to the republican spirit of disinterested economy has always been very expense e, and public business has never been translated but for money. This is an un avoidable evil tht attends a trading people, whether fee or not; they uitihiatcly love or value nothing but money. The thirst of gold, b ing more the v.'oik of imagination than of necessity, it does not satisfy our desires like the gratification of our other passions. Thee are unconnected and transient; they are at 'prince or succeed each other; whereas the third: of gold feeds and gratifies all the others, or at least it supplies them, and at the ane time wears them out, by procuring the means of indulging them. No habit increases so fail as that of amassing earth ; it seems to be alike excited by the enjoyments,of
B 0 OK cf vanity, and the self-denial of avarice. The rich man xIV., always w-ants to fill er enlarge his treasure. Constant ex prince verses this, bth in individuals and nations. Since great so tncs hase been made in England by trade, the dir cf riches is become the grand spring of aion, and the universal parson. Such citizens as either could not cr would not e.trizce that mo' lucrative of all employ ments, ftiii have an eve to that lucre which the mann-rs and opinion of the times has made necessary. Even in aspiring to honours they hunt after riches. In their attachment to t!:c'e laws and virtues, which ours': ever mutually to lift e.lch other, even in obtaining the honour sitting i parliament, they have found the w.iy to :garandize thir fortune. In order tn carry their cleon into this powerful! body, they hebe ;ibdc t!i: pc.p!e, and afterwards have no more been ashamed to lit! thes c very people to the court, than they vere to have bought them. Every vote in parliament is become venal. A famous minister !.:za;. kept a book of rates, and oo.CrI .waited oCf'it, to the disgrace of the na sion. It-as the duty cf hs place, he said, to buy fs' the re;:erfcntatises of the nation, to make them ·otc, not ?gain[, but aic.cl:ilg to their conscience. But what c.n ccnl.ienec plead against the allurements or gain If the mrl:crti:'e spirit has been capable of :.fitiig the nioc.;ir-cuntry with the con tiaion of :if-i;i.tcrct, how fl-auld it net prevail in the colonies, c- wich it i the principle and the support ? Is it then true, that in pole Albion, a man who should be generous eno::oh to serve his country for the mere love of aglow, would be liokcd u amen as a man of another world and of the pt-.;'e Ir so, her enemies hase no thin to do but, c;n their side, to fna':e off this mean spirit, a:jd they . il oe d.:; recover form her all they have lost. YET, notwithstanding the enormous contributions and public expences in the Fng'lh settlements, theirlanlds,'Till
still sell at a very high price. The Europeans and Amen O O K ricans vie with each other in buying them, and thi;com- XIV. petition enhances their valle. They are allured by the certainty of finding a better market for their commodities in the mother-cotry, than ther nations can have else where. Besides, the Enu'ih iii dare less exposed to invasion and de relation, than others that are rich in pro auctions and poor in ship. ' he navigation of a people born for the fta, supports itfr!f by its own frcneth, in war as well as in peace. That nati,, takes every 1:rthr.d to enhance the waite of its islands. In i;(6 th-y tok oiF the duty of four and a hs ,er ct1:,. on all sugars exported, and likewise the duties on all other commodities. This exemption has been extended to the prod; lions of other islands brought into their own. The government h' done more. Ithas undertaken to defray the charges of the garrisons that are to protest the new confucius, which amount to 210,427 livres (). Thus the treasury supports trade, in order to increase its prosperity. THE connexions of the English islands are greatly con What ree · the out fined. No foreign hip is suffered to land, but at Jamaica t,,d cl - and Dominica, which were made free ports in 1t7/6. The action of severity of the laws prevents the governors from l using viands. this important prohibition. All intercourse with the ie vcral nations of Europe, has l}.l w been forbidden them; and in 1739, when they weil permitted to ca) their furs directly to the foreign markets, it was undicr such restrictions as made it impracticable. It is the iiiterct of the mother-country to prolific the v;-ho' produce of her sands for her own conifuiptiio or lier own trade. The following is the way in wich they arc didlib':d.,(THESE (,) A'0.9, 0'
BOO K THESE colonies have never produced provisions for thei XIV.,.inhabitants, whether white or black. They afford neither wood, cattle, nor flat-fish. They are supplied with there necessaries from New-england, and send in exchange, rum, pimento, ginger, few other commodities, but great quantities of relates, which is used there instead of fu gar. The New-england people were never allowed to fe ch sugar in kind from the sands, left the cheap ness of the commodity should induce them to negle me less, and to drwv other articles in payment for those that were went them from he northern colonies. The mo ther country was very sensible, that sugars sent from America to England, and back again from England to Ane: rica, would find but few purchasers; but this consideration did not flop her. Her chief view was, not to sell a commodity to the northern colonies which she could readily dispose of in Europe; and particularly to secure the consumption of maladies, that she might appropriate to her fel fall the rich produce of her islands. But the measures that were taken to secure this important end, were singularly opposed. FRANCE, which fortunately was possessed of the richest islands in the Weft-Indies, by that imprudence which has always check the progress of her fortune, never thought of tending her metals and rum to her northern settlements. This bad policy drew the New England people to the French islands. They brought them meal, vegetables, wood, falt-ffhl, cattle, and even money, and fetched away indigo, cotton, sugar, which they found mens to send over to England, and chiefly al! their rnelzfes for their wn consumption. It is de constable that as art.' as the year 719, they carried off 2a,cco hogrfeaid, and that by the year 1733, this na 'nation employed 300 ships, and near 3000 sailors.,THIS
Très intercourse, which made the colonies on the O O K continent independent of the English islands for the ar x . times they wanted, excited the murmurs of the planters in the islands. They applied to parliament for the pro libation of a trade which, they alledged, was detrimental both to the mother country and to their prosperity, and beneficial to the progress of the French settlements. The North Americans replied, that if this market was shut against them, they could neither advance in the clearing of lands, nor carry on their fur trade, nor go on with their ,fishery, nor consume national manufactures nor add any thing to the wealth, power, or ma time strength of the mother country this grand contrast, which more or less concerned every Englishman, occasioned a great ferment, and pro duce many writings, in which party spirit betrayed great animosity. But it is by there means that the na tion comes at the knowledge of its true interest. When it was fully intruded, the parliament, to reconcile the views of all the American colonies, confirmed the privilege those on the continent had to trade with the French; but, to favour the islands, they laid a duty on foreign me lassies, so as to secure the preference to their own. This duty has often fluctuated. In 1764, the people of the islands petitioned that it might be put at 7 fols, 6 de piers (e) per gallon: those of the continent wanted to pay but 3 fols, 9 deniers.(f) To Satisfy both parties, it was put to 5 fols, 7 deniers and a half.(g) It has since been brought down to fol, o1 deniers and a half,(h) which is levied equally upon foreign and national me lases. But happily for the English ill.ids, the demand for molasses and rum has of late years been so great in North America, and the demand fur rum in England,,and (e) About 3d, (,f) Nt quite d. (g) Not quite .3d () About Jd.
BO OK and especially in Ireland has increased so much, that XIV. , they have never been at a lots to dispose of these com-modifies. Such are the connexions of the English islands with the northern colonies; they are much greater with the mother country. THE mother country furnishes them with wearing ap pares, utensils and slaves. This is about the twentieth part of what she draws from them. The reason of this disproportion is, that mos of the greet planters reside in England, ana their agent; abroad can and do consume but little. Their affairs are rr.maiiigd much in tie same manner as those of the nobility in Europe. A merchant of credit is a kind of seward, who sends over whatever is wanted in the plantations that are under his management. He gives orders to the administrators who are to overlook and dire the cultures. He receives all the produce by the return of the filius. He pays the bills drawn upon him for the purchase of slaves. This commission brings him in the freight, with the interest and reimbursement of the money he has advanced, be sides the profit of commission upon the goods bought and sold. His profits are greater than those of the proprietor himself.,IF this method differs from an exclusive privilege, it is at least attended with the same inconveniences; since it throws the whole management of the plantations into the bands of a few privateers, and secures to them the car rage of all the commodities they produce. So that as there is no competition for the freight, it can always be kept u a.t the same price, which runs very high. THAT-ind of monopoly which one merchants exercise in the EnglIl sands, is practised by the capital of the mother country, wits regard to the prn inches. It is to London that most of the produce of the colonies is,fecnt,
sent. It is in London that most of the owners of this B 0 0 K produce reside. It is in London that the profit arising XI' from it is spent. The reit of the nation is but very in directly concerned in it. BUT London is the finest port in England. It is here that hips are built, and manufactures carried on. London furnishes seamen for navigation, and hands for commerce. It stands in a temperate, fruitful, and central county. Every thing has a free passage in and out of it. It may be truly said to be the heart of the body politic from its local situation. It is not of an enormous size, though, like all other capitals, it is rather too large; it is not a head of clay, that wants to domineer over a co loses of gold. That city is not filled with proud and idle men, who only incumber and oppress a laborious people. It is the resort of all the merchants; the feat of the national assembly. There the king's palace is neither vail nor empty. He reigns in it by his enlivening presence. There the senate dictates the laws, agreeable to the sense of the people it represents. It neither fears the eye of the monarch, nor the frowns of the ministry. London has not arrived to its present greatness by the in fluence of government, which trains and over-rules all natural causes; but by the ordinary impulse of men and things, and by a kind of attraction of commerce. It is the sea, it is England, it is the whole world, that makes London rich and populous. TH history of the colonies of the American Archipelago Summary cannot be better concluded, than by a recapitulation of the arches that riches with which Europe is applied by them. This is the Europe,draws from great object of commerce in our days, and hence the Lee the Aneri- ward islands will ever hold a distinguished place in the an callings. nails of nations; since in fat, riches are the spring of all the great revolution that disturb the earth. The colonies of Aia,VOL, III. N n Minor
B O O K Minor occasioned both the splendour and the downfal of . ,. Greece. Rome, which at first desired to subdue nations only to govern them, sell from her greatness, when he acquired the possession of the treasures of the east. War seemed to slumber for a while in Europe, in order to in vade a new world; and has since been so often renewed in the former merely to divide the spoils of the latter. Po very, which will always be the lot of the greater part of mankind, and the choice of a few wise men, makes no noise in the world. History therefore can only treat of massacres or riches. THE riches of the Spanifh islands cannot be ascertain ed with any degree of precision. The reason is this. Several kinds of commodities are usually brought thither from the continent, which are confounded with the pro dubious of the Spanish leeward islands. Yet we may not, perhaps, be wide of the truth, if we compute the com modifies which Spain annually draws from her islands at ten millions of livres.(i) THE produce of the Danish colonies is not above fe even millions.(k) T'hey employ 7o ships, aud o500 sailors. These settlements receive in slaves and mer chastise, 1,5o0,0oo livres. (/) The charges of ex potation and importation may be valued at 900,000 livres,(m) and the duties and insurances at ten per cent. All expences deducted, the Danish islands must enjoy a clear income of about three millions and a half.(n) THE Dutch may receive from their settlements, com modifies to the value of twenty-four millions of livres.(e) T'hey are brought over to Holland by 150 ships and 4000 sailors. The charges of this navigation muff amount to three millions and a half of livres ;(p) the duties, com-emission (') 4+7,500 l. () 3o6,Sol. (1) 65,6151. (m) 39,3751.,(") S3,il5/. (o) ,o5o0ooc. () 153,iz51.
mllflon and insurance, to two millions and a half;(q) the B 0 0 Goods and ave went over, to ix millions (r) goods and laves went over, to fix millions (r) There re ' mains clear for the proprietors about twelve millions.(s) THE produce of the English islands, which employs 600 ships and 12,000 sailors, may be estimated at sixty fix millions of livres,) Independent of what the mo ther country sends to Jamaica for her contraband trade with the continent, she furnishes to the value of seven teen miliions,(u) in laves and merchandise, for the use of her colonies. The profits of the agents for this trade, the charges of navigation, duties and commission put to gather, cannot fall far short of sixteen millions.(w) From this calculation, the clear income of the owners of the plantations will appear to be thirty-three mil lions.(x) WE shall not be apprehensive of being accused of over rating the produce of the French islands, when we reckon it at one hundred million of livres.(y) Six hundred hips, and r8,ooo sailors are employed in the transport. France fells to'thefe great settlements, in laves, in the growth of her own soil or the fruits of her own industry, and in Portugal gold, to the value of sixty millions.(z) The profit of her merchants, only at ten per cent. mush be fix millions.(a) The charges of navigation at least fifteen ;(b) and the duties, insurance and commission no less than feven.(c) There only remains clear for the proprietors about twelve millions() The contrast is striking be tween this trifling balance and that of the other islands, and will appear more so, if we consider that in the latter, four out of five of the planters do not reside, whereas in the French colonies, nine out of ten of the proprietors live constantly upon the spot.,N n 2 THE (q) i'9,375l. (r) z6zb,ool (s) 55,ooo1. () 2,897,0oo'. (u) 74,750/. () 7os,ooo. (x) 1,443,750l. 0') 4,75.°° (z) ,6z5,oool. (a) :62,Soc/. (b) 656,z5ol. (c) 3o6,250/ (d) 525,oo/,
B Took THE rcfalt of this valuation is, that the productions,cf the great Archipelago of America, when brought into Europe, are worth two hundred and seven millions of livres. e) It is not a gift that the new world makes to the old. The nations which receive this important fruit of the labour of their subjects fettled in another he sphere, give in exchange, though with evident advantage to thncmfcles, the choicest produce of their soil and of their manufactures. Some consume the whole of what they draw from their islands; others, and especially France, make the overplus the basis of a prosperous trade with their neighbours. Thus every nation that is possessed of property in America, if it is truly industrious, gains till less by the number of subjects it maintains abroad without any expence, than by the population which those procure it at home. To feed a colony in America, it is necessary to cultivate a province in Europe; and this additional culture increases the inward strength and real wealth of the nation. In a word, at this pre sent time, the trade of the whole world is connect with that of the colonies.,'IHE labours of the people settled in those islands, are the foe basis of the African trade, they extend the fisheries and the cultures of North America, afford a good mar ket for the manufactures of Asia, and double, perhaps, treble the aivity of all Europe. They may be con filtered as the principal cause of the rapid motion which now agitates our globe. This ferment must increase, as the culture of the islands draws nearer to perfection, and it has not yet attained to half the prosperity it is capable of. NOTHING would be more likely to hasten that happy period, than to gi e up the excludes e trade, which every na-,tion (e) 9,sG56,'5/.
tion has reserved to itself in its own colonies. An un B 0 0 K limited freedom to trade with all the islands, would be, . productive of the greatest efforts, by exciting a general competition. Men who are inspired wth the love of humanity and are enlightened by that sacred fire, have ever wished to see a direic communication opened between all the ports of Europe and America. The several govern ments, almost all corrupt in their origin, and strangers to this principle of universal benevolence, have imagined that societies mostly founded on the separate interest of each nation, or of one single individual, ought to be formed in order to refrain all the connections of every colony to its respective mother country. The opinion is, that these refraining laws secure to each commercial nation in Europe the sale of its own territorial productions the means of procuring such f(.r gn commodities as it might (land in need of, and an advantageous balance with all the other trading nat inst his system, which was long thought to be the best, leas been vigorously opposed, when the theory of com mere had once shaken off the fetters of prejudice. It has been alledged, that no nation can supply all the real or imaginary wants of its colonies out of its own pro party. There is not one that is nt obliged to get some articles from abroad, in order to complete the cargoes for America. From this necessity arises at least an indirect communication of all nations with thcfc distant picflifi- ons. Would it not be more eligible to convey each i title to its declination in a direct line, than by the indirect way of bartering ? It would be attended with less expence; would promote both culture and consumption, and bring an increase of revenue to the public treaty : a thcufand,zdantagcs would accrue to the mother countries, wnlich,N n 3 would
B o oK would make them full amends fer the exclusive right they XIV.,all claim, to their mutual detriment these maxims are true, solid, and useful, but they will not be adopted. The reason is this. A great re volution is preparing in the trade of Europe, and is too far advanced not to be accomplished. Every government is endeavouring to do without the assistance of foreign industry. Mot of them have already succeeded, and the reft will not be long before they take off this dependence. Already the English and the French, who are the great manufacturers of Europe, see their master-pieces of work manship refused on all sides. Will these two nations, which are at the same time the greatest planters of the islands, go and open their ports to those who force them, as it were, to shut up their manufactures at home? The more they lose in the foreign markets, the lets they will consent to a competition in the only market they have left. They will rather strive to extend it, that they may have a greater demand for their commodities, and a greater supply of American productions. It is by these re turns that they will preserve their advantage in the bal-re cf trade, and they need not fear that the plenty of thee productions ould lower their value. The pro griefs of idulry in our continent, mull increase po pulsation and wealth, and of course the consumption and value of American productions. What will BUT whether te American sands, with the settlements be the fe that make them so frouriir.in, v.:ll always remain in the of the - American hands of their original pfcleffors, whether they will island ching. masters; or, in case of a revolution, into whose hands they will fall, and b what means; these are questions that afford much room for speculation and conjecture, which may be alighted by the following re s.ections.,THS"
THE islands depend totally upon Europe for a supply O O K,XIV. of all their wants. Those which only refpea wearing apparel and implements of husbandry will admit of de lay, but the leaftdifappointment with regard to provisions, spreads a general alarm, and causes universal desolation, which rather tempts the people to wish for than fear the approach of an enemy. And, indeed, it is a common lay ing in the colonies, that they shall never fail to capitulate with a squadron stored with barrels of flour instead of gun powder. If we pretend to obviate this inconvenience, by obliging the inhabitants to cultivate for their own subsist once, we defeat the very end of these settlements, without any real advantage. Stepmother-country would deprive herself of a great part of the rich produce of her colonies, and would not preserve them from invasion.,IN vain hould we hope to oppose an enemy by the help of negroes, born in a climate where effeminacy Stifles the feeds of courage, and who are frill more enervated by slave ry, and therefore but little concerned in the choice of their tyrants. As to the white men, dispersed in extensive plantations, they are so few, that they. could make but little resistance. It is even a question whether they would repulse an invasion if they could.,ALL the colonists hold it as a maxim, that their islands are to be considered as those great cities in Eur pe, which lying open to the first comer, change their dominion without an attack, without a siege, and Almost without being sensible of the war. The strongest is their master. The inhabitants cry out with the Italians, Go: jive the conqueror; passing and repassing from one yoke to another in the course of a campaign. Whether at the peace, the city returns to its old master, or remains in the h.ids of the victor, it has lost nothing of its splendor; v.hillt for ratified towns are always depopulated and reduced to a heaping 4 of
B 0 O Kos ruins. Indeed, there is hardly one inhabitant in the XIV. XIV American islands who does not think it a folly to expose misfortune for the lake of his country. This greedy calculator is little concerned whose laws he obeys, if his crops are but left finding It is to enrich himself that he has crossed the seas. If he preserves his treasures, his purpose is an swerved. Can the mother-country that forsakes him, too often after tyrannizing over him, that is ready to give him up, or, perhaps, to fel him at the conclusion of a peace, have any claim to the sacrifice of nis life. It is no doubt a glorious thing to die for one's country. But a late, where the prolpc sty )f ne n.i.on is iarfi.ed to f rms of government; whee the ait cf cheating men is the art of training up subjects; where they will have flares and not citizens; where w- r is declared and peace concluded, without con fulling the opinion or the ses of the people; where evil designs are aI.'ajs countenanced by the intrigues of de debauchery, or the practices of monopoly and where use ful plans are only adopted vwih such clogs as make them impraicic able: i this the country for which we should fa orifice our blood ?the fortifications erected for the defence of the co ionics, will eure them no better than the arms of the inhabitants. Even if they were stronger, and better guarded and stored than they have ever been, they must a'wass surrender unless they are succoured, Should, the rceitlince hold out above fix months, that would not discourse the besiegers, who being within react of a coll si nt supply of refreshments both by land and by sea, can better endure the severity of the climate, than a gar ripon can rc;i: the tuition of a siege. THESE is no other *.a to preserve the colonies but by a formidable navy It is on the decks and in the harbours of Europe that the bastions and ramparts of the American,colonies
colonies muff be raised. Whilst the mother country BO O,XIV. shelters them, as it were, under the wings of her hips, a so long as she hall fill up with her fleets the vast interval that separates her from these daughters of her industry and power, her parental watchfulness for their prosperity will secure their attachment to her. In future, therefore, the maritime forces will be the great object that will attract the attention of all proprietors of land in America. Euro pean policy generally directs its attention to the securing of the frontiers of states by fortified towns ; but for maritime powers, there ought, perhaps, to be citadels in the center, and hips all round. A commercial hand, indeed, wants no fortified towns. Her rampart is the sa, which constitutes her safety, her subsistence, her wealth; the hinds are at her command, and all the elements conspire to promote her glory. IN this refpef, England may undertake any enterprize, and expect every kind of ucClfs. he is now the only power that can confide in her pfrleffioiis in America, and that is able to attack the colonies of her rivals erhap, it will not be long ere he follows the dictates of her courage, The pride of past success; the very restlessness inseparable from prosperity; the burden of conquests, which seem to be the punishment of victory: all tllefc are so many incentives to war. The English are crushed under the weight of their undertakings and their national debt; their ma manufactures are falling; every dy they lose some branch of trade; they cannot appease the ferment of the northern colonies, but by opening new marts tor their productions. The notions they have conceived of their own valour, and the terror of their arms abr'.id, would wear off by a long peace ; their fleets would cnlume in idleness; their admirals would lose the benefit of pas experience. All there reflections are warrantable motives for a nation that,has
0 has waged war before it was declared, and pretends to X, ., the dominion of all America, by the same right that places despotic prince at the head of a nation. The first spark will kindle in America, and the storm will directly fall upon the French islands; because the rest, except the Havannah, will voluntarily submit to the yoke. THE French hould, therefore, first prepare for the de fence of America. If it can be defended, they alone can efeca it, for the Dutch are of no consequence now, and Spain has suffered all her natural powers to remain in active, and has put the shears of her strength into the hands of other nations. At this time, therefore, France alone is able to raise a formidable navy. Philosophers of all nations, friends of mankind, forgive a French writer if he urges his countrymen to build hips. He has in view the tranquillity of the earth, when he wishes to see that equilibrium established in the dominion of the seas, which now preserves the safety of the continent.,FRA.sCE, almost in the center of Europe, and placed between the Ocean and Mediterranean, unites the strength of land forces to the advantages of a maritime power. She can convey all her productions from one sea to the other, without passing under the threatening cannon of Gibraltar, or the insulting flag of the fates of Barbary. A channel, preferable to the Aeolus, pours the rich pro duce of her fairest provinces into both seas, and the treasures of both seas into her choicest provinces. No navigating nation has the advantage of so speedy a communi cation between her several ports by land, or between her several lands by her ports. She is within reach of Spain and Portugal, which know not how to provide for their own sustenance, and within reach of the Turks and Africans, whose trade is merely passive. Her moderate climate procures her the inestimable advantage, almost,peculiar
peculiar to herself, of sending out and re( living her ships B O O K at all seasons of the year. Her roads are lo deep, that XIV. she can give her hips the properest form, both for swift ness and safety she is in no want of commodities for exportation. Her wines and brandies are disposed of in America and in the north of Europe. How many nations buy up her salt, her oil, her soap, he fruit, and even her corn. There is a great demand for the produce of her colonies. But it is chiefly by her manufactures, her silks, and her fa fashions, that he regulates the taste of all nations. Notwithstanding all the endeavours used to oppose this prevailing passion, Europe is fascinated, and will-never give up the point. This phrenzy has found its way to England, where the legislators themselves, whiff they enaa laws to prevent it, are the sirs to break them. In vain, to save the heavy duties on our manufactured goods, have others tried to imitate them. The fruitfulness of invention will ever prevent the readiest imitation; our light fancy will always be too quick for our neighbours, and our inventive genius will be contriving new fashions, while our old ones are till in their looms. What should we not expect from our navigation, when we are thus able to supply other nations with whatever can feed their vanity, their luxury, and their voluptuousness ?no obstacle arising from the nature of things could flop this activity. France, great enough not to be ob ftruaed by the surrounding powers, and so happily limited as not to fink under the weight f her own greatness, France has in her own hands all the means of attaining to that power by sea which would complete her prosperity. A numerous population, fit for any enterprize, only wants encouragement to be directed to the sea-service. Even the reproach that is made to the French for having more,sailors
B 0 0 K sailors on board their ships than other nations, is itself a XIV.,proof that there are men enough for the art, if they were but properly intrusted in it. Yet no nation has been endowed by nature with more of that lively genius which is fit for the improvement of hip building, or of that bodily dexterity which can save time and expence in the manoeuvre, by the implicity and celerity of the means made use of. IT i in the merchant service that a nation learns to be formidable at ea. All sailors are naturally soldiers. They daily face the doers of death ; they are inured to the fatigues of labour, and the industrious efrccs of climates. A mi italy marine can only b trained up by service at lea. The trading navy is the school, and commerce the nursery and support of it. In vain would the royal treasury of a court that has never seen the ea or a ship, fit out fleets; the ocean scorns those effeminate and cringing be kings who troop and bend before other men. Such com manners would require no other assistance from the winds than to help them in their flight. Let them remain in the capital, and leave the command of men of war to the mailers of privateers; or rather, let the no ability, if ever they mean to be commanders at sea, lorn merchants, and go themselves on board their own trading ships, before they presume to make interest for pots in the royal navy. Modern hates have no other way to aggrandize them selves but by maritime power. Since a kind of luxury unknown to the ancients, has infected Europe with a m-.u:ii:ue of new tastes, those nations which can furnish the rest with the means of gratifying them, mull become the most considerable ; because, by exerting their powers in the perils of navigation and the labours of trade, they keep their neighbours in inaion and sensualist ; they keep thane ver pope whom they" pay for carrying on war,in
in subjection, and dependent on their industry, with B O O K,XIV. the very money they have drained them of by luxury. I It is since that revolution, which hath, as it were, sub mitted the earth to the lea, that the great strokes of state have been struck on the ocean. Richelieu had not per civet this to be near at hand, when to keep out the English from Rochelle, he almost cut off all communication between the town and the sea. Ships would have been better than a dike; hut the navy had no share in his system of enslaving France, in order to rule over Europe. The monarch, to whose greatness he had been paving the way, imagined as he did, that that greatness consisted only in the art of conquering. After having stirred up the whole continent of Europe by his enterprizes, hews obliged to keep numberless armies in pay to withstand that league. His kingdom on became, a it were, one great camp, and his frontiers a mere hedge of certified towns. Under that brilliant reign, the springs of the slate were constantly overstretched; the government, restless and un easy by its own vigour, escaped from one danger only to fail into another. The want of a standing navy was never felt till the finances were almost too much exhausted to raise it. Ev ER since the end of that century, in which the people supported, at least, under their misfortunes by the re membrane of pail success, still dazzled Europe with the prospect of forty years of glory, were attached to the government that had railed them to such a pitch of ho your, and bad defiance to the rivals they had humbled; ever since that period, the prosperity of France has al ways been upon the decline, notwithstanding the acquisitions that have enlarged her territories. bhe would not have bee. enervated by twenty years peace, had she cm pr-.ved thole powers in the improvement of her navy, wi:.ih had Iezn too long wasted in a continental war.,But
BOOK But her marine has never been put upon a refp-l- XIV.,able footing. The avarice of one ministry, the prodigality of another, the indolence of many, little selfish views, court intrigues that guide the government, a series of vices and errors, a multitude of obscure and despicable causes have prevented the nation from be coming as great at sea as file had been on the continent, and at least from maintaining the balance of power, if not contending Cor the superiority. The evil is incurable, if the misfortunes he has sustained in the late war, and the hard terms she has submitted to at the peace, have not inspired her rulers with the spirit of wisdom, and attracted all their process and all their efforts towards establishing a formidable navy. EUROPE waits impatiently for this revolution. She will never think her liberties secure, till she fees a flag upon the ocean that does not tremble before the British standard. That of France is now the only one which may in time aspire to that competition. The wishes of all nations are now united for the prosperity of that power which shall be able to defend them from one that can alone pretend to the universal empire of the seas. The system of equilibrium requires that France should augment her naval powers, more especially as fie cannot effect this without diminishing her land' forces. Then her influence, divided between both elements, will be formidable to none but such as would disturb its harmony. The nation itself requires nothing more to compass this great end, than to be at liberty to aspire to it. The government must allow the people to exert themselves. But, if authority con tracs the powers and freedom of industry, by obstructing it more and more with taxes and restraints; if it damps its vigour by endeavouring to force it; if in drawing all to itself, it falls into a dependence on sub-patterns;
alters; if in order to go to America or India, we B 0 K muff pass through the intricate windings of the caps . tat or the court; if some minister, already great and powerful, will not immortalize his name, by delivering the colonies from the yoke of a military government, by alleviating the oppression of the customs upon commerce, by opening the roads for those who are brought up in the merchant service, to honours as well as to the ser vice of the royal navy: in short, if there is not a total change, inevitable ruin must ensue france has committed great mistakes, and made many hard sacrifices. It is doubtful whether the riches he has preserved in the islands of America are an equivalent to the strength (he has lost on the continent of that vast country It is in the north that a fresh revolution is preparing in the new world. That is to be the feat of our wars. There let us explore the secret of our future destiny.,END OF THE FOURTEENTH BOOK. END OF THE THIRD VOLUME.
BOO K X. SETTLEMENT of the European nations in the great 3 Archipelago of America, known b the name of the antilles or Caribbee sand. - Page Whether the American islands have been detached from the continent. - 2 Nature of the soil of the Caribbee islands. 6 Climate of the islands. - -1 Extraordinary phenomena in the islands. - 1 Customs of the Caribbees, the ancient inhabitants of the Wi edward islands. 19 The English and French fettle on the windward islands and destroy the Caribbees. - 2+ The French fettle at St. Domingo. - 27 The English conquer Jamaica. - 32 The Buccaneers ravage the American seas. Origin, manners, expeditions and decline of these pirates. 36 Causes that prevented the English and Dutch from making any conquest in America, during the war for the Spanish succession. . 65 The islands of America are the cause of the war in 1739. o7 America was the cause of the war in 755. - 79 The beginning of the war unfavourable to the English. 8 The English are roused from their lethargy, and seize the French and Spanifh islands. 8 8 Advantages procured to Great Britain in the hands by the peace. - - 101,B 0 XI. The Europeans go into Africa to purchase flares to cultivate the Caribbees. The manner of conducting this species of commerce. Produce accruing from the la your of the slaves. - o6 The Europeans go into Africa in search of cultivators. 107 Opinions concerning the eastern coast of Africa. - ibid. Opinions concerning the northern coast of Africa. - 1o8 Climate of the western craft of Africa, known by the name of the coatI of Guinea. - 117 Soil of Guinea. - 121 Government, policy, wars, religion and manners of the coast of Guinea. 123 Ancient trade of Guinea. - 13. New commerce of Guinea, or the slave trade. - 137 Account of the places and manner in which the ayre trade is carried on. - 141 Are forts necessary in order to procure Caves ? - 143 intheflavetrade shall vessels are preferable to great ones. 147 There are seasons moreorlef, favourable o th slave trade. 14S,a In
Page ?manner of selling the saves in America. 151 Wretched condition of the raves. hid. in what manner the condition of saves might be ren tered rome supportable. 8 - Slavery is entirely contrary to humanity, reason, and malice. --65 Labours of flares. - - 173 Character of the Europeans fettled in the Indies. 191 Diseases to which the Europeans are subject in the sands 1 99 Advantages of. those nations that are in possession of the islands. - - 202,BOOK XII. Settlements of the Spaniards, the Dutch, and the Danes,in the American islands. - - 2o4 A Spaniel colony formed on the banks of the Oronooko. The nfe that has and might be made of it. - slid. Settlement of the Spaniards at Trinidad, and at Mar gazette. - --o8 Spahis settlement at Porto Rico. - 2 0 Spanish settlement at St. Domingo. - - 2z6 Spaniel colony formed at Cuba. Importance of that island. - - 222 The Spaniards not incapable, as is supposed, of bring ing their colonies to great perfection. - 236 The Dutch establish themselves at Curaflou, St. Eufla-,ia, Saba, and St. Martin. The use of these finally lizards. - 238 Dutch fe;;te, ends at Surinam, Berbice, and Effequebe. 249 Produce of the three settlements. 252 Dangers to which the Dutch colonies are exposed. 257 Reasons why the Dutch ought to secure the possession cf their colonies, and to encourage the produce of themis. - 262 Danish settlement: at St. Thomas, St. John, and Santa Cruz. - - 271 Condé; of Denmark towards its islands. - 278 Reasons why Denmark ought to appropriate to herself the produce cf acl her islands-281,B 0 0 K XIII. Settlement of the French in the American islands. - 287 Sirs expeditions of the French to the islands. - ibd. The French islands languish under exclusive privileges. 288 The French islands recover their liberty. Obstacles which impede their success. 292 Settlement of the French in Guiana. Revolutions of the colony. tslu advantage and its inconveniencies. 297
Page The possession of St. Lucia for a long time disputed is,at lait ceded to the French. 3 S What became of St. Lucia in the hands of the French. 3 z Schemes of France to secure to itself the possession of St. Lucia. 326 The French fettle at Martinico upon the ruin of the Caribs. - 329 Prosperity of Martinico. Causes of it. 333 Decay of Martinico, and the cause. - 34 Present slate of Martinico. - 343 Whether the state of Martinico can be improved. 346 Whether Martinico can be conquered. - 348 Calamities experienced by the French wh6 fettle at Guadalupe. - - 35z The colony of Guadalupe makes no great progress. 35+ The English conquer Guadalupe, and raise the island to the greatest degree of prosperity. - 356 Changes made in the administration of Guadalupe since it has been restored to the dominion of France. 362 Settlement of the French at St. Domingo. - 367 Measures taken by the French to render this colony ad advantageous. 370 Misfortunes that happen to the colony. - 377 Present ate of this colony. - - 380 Produce and population of the colony. - - 396 Trade of the French of St. Domingo with the Spa niards fettled in the same island. - 399 In what manner the colony can insure the continuance of its connections with Europe. ibid. To put an end to the disputes subsisting between the French and Spaniards at St. Domingo, it would be necessary to fix the limits of both colonies. - 402 Measures which ought to be taken by France, to pro sect this colony from foreign invasion. - 40g Examination of the government established in the French islands. - - 417 Is the right of property respected in the French islands? 4 1 Are the taxes properly levied in the French islands ? zo Is the militia well regulated in the French islands. 429 Is the regulation of inheritance properly fettled in the French islands ? - 4 Has the payments of debts contract in the French islands been judiciously provided for ? - 43 Has the mother country, in compelling the islands to deliver their produce only to hers', sufficiently fe cured the exportation of them ? - 443 Is the authority in the French islands consigned to those hands that are mill proper to make ;ten flourish ? ^47
Page B O O K XIV. Settlement of the English in the American islands. 455 The fate of England when he began to form fettle ments in the American islands. - ;b;d. Cases which hastened the population of the British islands. 456 By what hen the Britain hands were peopled. - 461 Under what form of government the British islands were established. - - 463 In what manner the prosperity of the British islands diminished. --468 Settlement of the English at Barbadoes. - 470 Settlement of the English at Antigua. - 474 Settlement of the English at Montserrat. - 476 Settlement of the English at Nevis-bid. Settlement of the English at St. Christopher's. - 47S The English drive the Spaniards from Jamaica, and fettle themselves there. - 48 Jamaica has e richzd itself by the illegal trade it has carried on with 'spanifh America. - 487 Jamaica has enriched itself by its plantations, still more than by its illegal trade. 492 Is it possible that the produce of Jamaica hould be multiplied - co Jamaica experiences a great calamity. Consequences of this catastrophe. - - 50z Jamaica has every thing to fear from a republic of ne goes, whose independence flie hath been compelled to acknowledge?. - - 504 Advantages of Jamaica for war. Its disadvantages for navigation. 5 Settlement of the English at Lucay's or Bahama islands. 5 1 Settlement of the English at the Bermudas. 514 The English take polffrion of the island of Tobago, which had been occupied by the Dutch and by the French. - 517 France cedes Granada to England. Importance and produce of that sand. - - 524 The English take possession of St. Vincent. Customs of the savages they found in this island. - ces The English establish themselves at Dominica. Deign of this elfablifhicnr. - - 535 Present fia'e of the British sands. - 537 What are the outward contains of the British hands 54 Summary of the riches that Europe draws from the,Americnn yards. - 545 What will te :r fate of ie American islands hereafter. 550
A philosophical and political history of the settlements and trade of the Europeans in the East and West Indies. Translated from the French by J. Justamond, M. A. .
A PHILOSOPHICAL AND POLITICAL H I STORY,OF THE SETTLEMENTS AND TRADE,OF THE EUROPEANS,IN TH£ EAST AND WEST INDIES.,TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH. BY J. JUSTAMOND, M. A.,VOLUME THE Fourths '1. - '"· . LONDON: PRINTED FOR T. CADELL, IN THE STRAND,-,M4.DCC.LXXVI,
INDEX TO THE FOURTH VOLUME.,BOOK XV. REASONS why the Fiench have founded their co-felonies in America so late. - Page a Fill expeditions of the Fiench into North America. - The Fiench turn their views towards Canada. - Government, customs, virtues, vices and wars of the savages that inhabited Canada. - 10 The Fiench embroil themselves improperly in the wars of the savages. - 37 The Fiench colony makes no progress. Cause of this languor. - 41 The Fiench are rouzed from their inactivity. Means by which this change was effected. - 44 The furs are the foundation of the connexions between the Fiench and the Indians. 5- In what places, and in what manner the fur trade was carried on. 64 France is compelled to cede part of the provinces that were united to Canada. 7 t,B O K XVI. Account of the Fiench settlements in North America,continued-75 The Fiench to repair their loses people and fortify Cape-breton; and establish considerable fisheries there. 76 Settlement of the Fiench in the island of St John. 83 Discovery of the Mississippi by the Fiench. - 85 The Fiench fettle in the country that is watered by the Mississippi, and call it Louisiana. - 89 Louisiana becomes very famous in the time of Law's fallen. - - Extent, climate, fertility, and original inhabitants of Louisiana. 95 What the Fiench have done in Louisiana. - 10 What the Fiench might have done in Louisiana. - Ill France cedes Louisiana to the Spaniards. Whether face had a right to do this. - - 114 State of Canada at the peace of Utrecht. - 118 Population, agriculture, manners, government, sith eries, industry, and revenues of Canada. ibid. Advantages which France might have derived from Canada. Errors which have deprived her of them. 13a Origin of the wars between the English and the Fiench in Canada. - 139,h Conquest
Page Conquest of Cape-breton by the English. - 40 The English attack Canada. 14. Taking of Quebec by the English. Canada is ceded to the English. That advantages they might derive from tha, poseidon. - 15,B 0 0 K Xvii. Engiin colonies fettled at Hudson's bay, Newfoundland,,Nova Scotia, Nw Lr.gland, New York, and New Jersey. -; First expeditions of the English in North America. slid. The continent of America is peopled by the religious wars that dilluro England. - - 61 Parallel between the old ane the new world. - 169 Comparison between civilized people and savages. 177 In what state the English found North America, and what they have done there. - 183 Climate of Hudson's bay, and customs of its inhabitants Trade carried on there. - ISj Whether there is a passage at Hudson's bay leading to the East Indies. - - 193 Description of Newfoundland. 198 fisheries established at Newfoundland. - 201 The French give up Nova Scotia to England, after having been a long time in possession of it themselves. 1 3 Manners of the French who remained subject to the English government in Nova Scotia. - 217 Present Rate of Nova Scotia. 222 Foundation of New England. - - z Fanaticism occasions great calamities in New England. 228 Severities till fubfi;iiig in the laws of New-england. 232 Government, population, cultures, manufactures, trade, and navigation of New England. - 233 New York founded by the Dutch, pages into the hands of the English-24z Flourishing slate cf New York. Causes cf its prof lenity. 245 In what manner New jersey fall into the hands of the English. Its pre:n; tate. - 250,B O O K XVII. Eng:;:i colonies founded in P.-.r.':vania, Virginia, Ma-,r;lnas, Car 'i.:. Georgia, and Florida. General rcletins nn . '.f f;z:e:;.-rn:s. ^5 The (Q. hers susa" .' i h-ania. Manners of that set. iii.d. Upon m hat i ^, '-. r.:. b'o nia was iur.dcd. 261 Prosperity of Penr.,:: .nia. 265
Page Wretched state of Virginia at its first settlement. 28o Administration of Virginia. - - 28 Maryland is detached from Virginia. - 289 Virginia and Maryland cultivate the same productions. 29z Origin of Carolina. - - 299 Syiem of religious and civil government established by Locke in Carolina. - 300 Climate and produce of Carolina. - 303 Foundation of Georgia. 311 Impediments that have prevented the progress of Georgia. - 34 History of Florida. Its ceCion from the Spaniards to the English. - 31 By what n.ear.s England may render Florida useful to her. - - 32z Extent of the british dominions in North America. 324 Trees peculiar to North America. 327 Birds peculiar to North America. - 3S8 The English supply North America with domestic ani mass. 330 European grain carried into North America by the Eilg:;th. - 33 3 The English find the necessity cf having their naval stores from America. 332 England begins to get iron from North America. 336 England endeavours to procure wine and silk from North America. - 338 What kind of men England peoples her North American colonies with. represent sate of population in the English Provinces of ,North Americans Happiness of the inhabitants in the British colonies of North America. - 3 What kind of government is established in the British colonies of North America. 356 The coin current in the English colonies of North America .36 The English colonies in North America are shackled in their industry and commerce. 367 The mother country has attempted to establish taxes in the colonies of North America. Whether She had a right to do this. - 71 Whether the colonies Should submit to be taxed. - 381 How far the colonies ought to carry their opposition to taxation. - - -. . Whether it would be of use to the colonies to break through the tics which unite them to the mother (country-387
Page Whether it would be proper for the European nations to endeavour to render the English colonies inde pendent of the mother country. - 38,BOOK XIX. Religion - - 39 Government. - - 397 Policy. 433 War. - - - - 4 4 Nary.- ') Commerce. --465 Agriculture. - 480 Manufactures-488 Population. - 498 Taxes. - 511 Public credit. - - 5 Fine arts and belles lettres. 6 Philosophy. - 533 Morals. - 543
A PHILOSOPHICAL AND POLITICAL tI I S T O R Y,OF THE SETTLEMENTS AND TRADE,OF THE EUROPEANS,IN THE EAST AND WEST INDIES.,BOOK XV. BOOK,XV. SPAIN was mistress of the rich empires of Mexico Reasons and Peru, the gold of the new world, and of almost all Fry nth South America. The Portuguese, after a long series of have found victories, defeats, enterprises, mistakes, and losses, had deal their colonies in kept the most valuable settlements in Africa, in India, Amecicafo and in the Brazils. The French government had notate even conceived it possible to establish colonies, or imagined that any advantage could be derived from having possessions in those distant regions. THEIR ambitious views were turned entirely towards Italy. Some old claims on the Milanese and the two Similes had involved them in expensive wars, in which they had been engaged for a long time. Their internal commotions diverted them still more from the great ob VOL. IV, B jet
B O o Kje& of establishing a disant and extensive commerce, and,. . from the idea of increasing their dominions by conquests,in the East and Weft-Indies. THE authority of kings was not openly contested, but it was refilled and eluded. Some remains of the feudal government were still subsisting, and many of its abuses had not yet been abolished. The prince was continually employed-in restraining the restless spirit of a powerful nobility. Most of the provinces were governed by di stint laws and forms of their own. Every society, every order in the fate enjoyed peculiar privileges, which were either opposed or carried to excess. The government was a complicated machine, which could only be regulated by the management of a variety of delicate springs. The court was frequently under a necessity of having re course to the shameful resources of intrigue and corruption or to the odious means of oppression and tyranny; and the nation was for ever negociating with the prince. Regal authority was unlimited, without having received the sanction of the laws; and the people, though frequently too independent, had yet no security for their liberty. This occasioned continual jealousies, apprehensions and struggles. The whole attention of the govern ment was not directed to the welfare of the nation, but to the means of enslaving it. The people were sensible of their wants, but ignorant of their powers and re sources. They felt their rights alternately invaded or trampled upon, by their lords or their sovereigns. First cxpe- FRANCE, therefore, suffered the Spaniards and Partitions of guess to discover new worlds, and to give new laws to the French into North unknown nations. They were rouzed, at length, by A:;i:3. admiral Coligny, a man of the most extensive, Ready,and active genius, that ever flourished in that powerful empire. This great politician, attentive to the intercessor
of his country, even amidst the horrors of a civil war,B O O K sent John Riband to Florida in 1562. That vafttra& of X North America then extended from Mexico to the country which the English have since cultivated under the name of Carolina. The Spaniards had run over it in 1512, but did not fettle there. The motives the en gaged them to make this discovery, and those which in duce them to relinquish it, are equally matters of fur prise to us.,ALL the Indians of the Caribbee islands believed, upon the credit of an old tradition, that nature had concealed a spring or fountain somewhere on the continent, whose waters had the property of restoring youth to all old men who were so fortunate as to drink of them. This idea delighted the romantic imagination of the Spaniards. The loss of many, who were the victims of their credulity did not discourage the rest. Rather than suspect that the first had perished in an attempt, of which death would be the most certain consequence, they concluded, that if they did not return, it was because they had found the art of enjoying perpetual youth and discovered that delightful spot, which they did not chuse to quit. PONCE de LEON was the most famous of the navigators who were infatuated with this chimerical idea. Fully persuaded that a third world existed, the conquest of which was reserved to add to his same; but thinking that the remainder of his life was much too short for the im mense career that was opening before him, he resolved to go and renew it, and recover that youth which he was so much in need of. He immediately bent his court to wards those climates where fable had placed the fountain of youth, and found Florida, from whence he returned to Porto-Rico, visibly more advanced in years than when he fat out. Thus chance immortalized the name of an,B 2 
0 0 K adventurer, who made a real discovery, merely by run ~ .,~ ; ing after an imlgilar y one there is scarce any useful and important discovery made by the human mind, th-t has not been rather ow ir to a defiles imagination, than to industry excited by reflection. Chance, which is the imperceptible course of nature, i, never at rest, and assists all men without di flincion. Genius grows weary and is soon discouraged it f'l-s to the lot only of a few, and exerts itself but for a short space. Its very effort, can only throw it in the way of chince,c and hive occasion to make use of its : .nar.ce. Tc only difference between a man of genius and orme of common capacity is, that the former can fore see and search for what the latter sometimes finds. But even the man of genius hinrrcif more frequently makes ui, of what chance has thrown in his way. It is the la I iJ ry who puts the value on the diamond which the peasant has ignorantly duo up. THE Spaniard had despised Florida, because they did not discover there cither the fountain that was to make them all grow !young, or gold which happens the period of old ane. The French found there a more real and valuable treasure ; a clear sky, a fruitful soil, a temperate climate, fs arcs who were lovers of peace and hospitality; but thcv themselves were not sensible of the worth of these alva;naes. Had thcv followed the directions of Co!.ny ; had they toiled the ground, which only wanted the alliance of man to vied him its treasures, had a due subordination been maintained amongst the Euro means; had not the rights of the natives of the country been violated ; a cclcny might have been founded, which in tine would have become a fiourifC:isg and permanent fettica.ent. But the levity of the French was inconstancy with so much wisdom. The provisions were,wafted;
wasted; the fields were not own n; the authority of the B 0 0 K,XV. chiefs was W i lighted by ungovernable fuhalheis s they were led away by a passion for hunting and war; in fort, they did nothing of what they ought to have done. To complete their misfortune, the civil disturbances in France diverted the attention of the subjects from an undertaking in which the government had never taken mary con cern. Theological disputes alienated the minds and di vide the hearts of all ranks cf people. Government had violated the fired laws of natrec, which enjoin all men to tolerate the opinions of their fellow-creatures; and those of policy which forbid the exertion of tyranny more especially .t an improper time. 'She reformed religion had made great prioress in France when it was persecutes A coll tide rale pert of the nattin was involved in the proscription, and rook up aims. SPAIN, though not lss intolerant, hId prevented re litigious disturbances, by suffering the clergy to aitulie that authority which has been continually indicating to our times, but which, for the future, will be contatlatly (on the decline. 1 he inquisition, al\.wrs ready tno o(ppcfe the least appearance of innovation, fo'.ll nieans to prevent the protestant faith from ,Iln il: ris w.:v n" the nation, and, therefore, was net at inde tins of dcni, his ig it. Philip 11 wholly taken tup witilh ierice, all ac stormed to consider himself as the free prrlret.,r ( f it, being informed of the attempts made by Fie Frill itn.n to fettle there, and of their being nrgit:t d bv iri:r own government, fitted out a let Irrm C t( to defray them. Mlnenei.dtz who (commanded this fc t handed in Florida, where he found tlih enemies he vint in quest of, fettled at Carolina fort. Hie attacked all their entrenchments carried them sworn in hand, and inside a dreadful massacre. All whoefcaped the carnage, wereha:lgcd on a,B 3 tree
B O O Tree with this inscription: not as Frenchmen, but as X:V.,heretics.,FAR from seeking to revenge this insult, the ministry of Charles IX secretly rejoiced at the miscarriage of a prose which they had, indeed, approved, but did not countenance, because it had been contrived by the head of the Huguenots, and might reflex honour on their party. The indignation of the public did but strengthen them in their resolution of shewing no resentment. It was reserved fvr a private man to execute what the fate ought to have done dominic de Gourtues, born at mount Marian in Gascony, a skilful and intrepid seaman, an enemy to the Spaniards, from whom he had received personal injuries passionately fond of his country, of hazardous expeditions, and of glory; sold his state, built some ships, and fe vexing tome companions like himself, he fat out to attack the murderers in Florida; he drove them from all their posts with incredible valour and activity, beat them every where, and in order to retaliate on the enemy the same contemptuous insult they had fawn, hung them up on trees with this inscription: not as Spaniards sut as ojcfris.,HAD the Spaniards been content with massacring the French, the latter would ne er have exerted such cruel reprisals; but they were offended at the inscription, and were guilty of an atrocious act to be revenged of the de vision to which they had been exposed. This is not the only instance in history which may lead one to imagine that it is not the thing that has made the word, but the word that has made the thing the expedition of the brave de Gorges was attend ed with no furtherconfequences. Whether he had not a frock of provisions sufficient to remain in Florida, or whether he foresaw that he had no succours to expeEt,from 4
from France, or whether he thought that a friendship 0 0 K with the natives would last no longer than the means of XV. purchasing it, or that the Spaniards would attack him, he blew up the forts he had taken and returned home. He was received by all true patriots with the applause due to his merit, but neglected by the court, which was too despotic and superstitious not to t(and in awe of virtue. SINCE the year 1567, when this intrepid Gascon eva coated Florida, the French neglected America. Be filtered in a chaos of unintelligible doctrines, they lost their reason and their humanity. The mildest and most sociable people upon earth became the moi barbarous and sanguinary. Scaffolds and piles were insufficient: as they all appeared criminal to one another, they were all mutually each other's victims and executioners. After having condemned one another to eternal destruction, they assassinated each other at the instigation of their priests, who breathed nothing but the spirit of revenge and bloodshed. At length the generous Henry softened the minds of his subjects; his companion and tenderness made them feel their own calamities; he restored their inclination to the sweets of social life; he prevailed up on them to lay down their arms, and they contented to live happy under his parental laws. IN this state of tranquillity and freedom, under a king who possessed the confidence of his people, they began to turn their thoughts to some useful projects. They under took the establishment of colonies abroad. Florida was the first country that naturally occurred to them. Excepting fort St. Augustine, formerly built by the Spaniards, at the distance of ten or twelve leagues from the French colony, the Europeans had not a single settlement in all that vast and beautiful country. The inhabitants were not a for-,B 4 amicable
I, 0 K notable set of men ; and the soil had every promising ap xv,, prance of fertility. It was even reported to be rich in gld and smiler mines, because both those metals had been found there; not considering that they came from force ship that had b:cn call away upon the coasts. The re:neinobrnce of the great actions performed by some Frenchmen, could n-'t 'et be erazed. Probably the Fr-neh then selves we-e lather afraid of irritating Spain, vtI 1 V'2s not \c: dissolved to !f cr She least settlement to be made on the Gulc.h (1 o! : . o, or even near it. The danger of pro.ckil., a ration which has so formidable in those parts, dtreriTni' : tilerm t keep at a d,.fl-ce as much as foible, an. therefore tier' gave the preference to the more northern parts of America. The road was ready pointed out. The FR,-,xCIS I. h;d fen; out ths Florcr.tir,e Vcr ai in French turns. rcir 1523, wh (r''"v observed the island of Newfoundland, view. to -n' lome co. :- .f the continent, but diei not flop there. vwdis Ci nara . E-.r-r£. yaFrs t-rrr J m., Care,: a fretful navigators S. .;;I,), r.:ilmcd the pr.njets of Vcr.zini. The two nations, v c;t h.;.! fill ! ended in America, exclaimed ag-frost the ir vel;. of following their example. It/at ! f. d Francs 1. pheasants', iJ .!lt'r ' .ir-s cf S ,ai. and Pore U,%. I cU . . sa sh. bctwra t ,n , tit,. ut fifths irnj :. r: ;.- 7-.- cs tl-cr Irate? I c'c:.'lfnJ see the arh'ti ; , .a' ' :.i'. t.,at I.s7utlths t at awl inheritance to times. C.rtcr - proceeded further than his predecessor. He went up .:e ri er S. Lawrence; but after having bar tered sone Drop n commodities with the savages for some of thir furs, he re embarked f;r France; where, an undertaker;, which seemed to hare been entered up on mereiv from imitation, was nreleced from levity. IT happ:r.ne fortunately that the Normans, the Bri tons and the Bif-ayans continued to carry on the cod,fifherv
fishery on the great sand bank, along the coasts of New B o O K,XV. founlland, and in all .h- adjacent latitudes. These in ,'. trepid and experienced men served as pilots to the ad venturers who since the year 1598 attempted to fettle colonies in those desert regions. None of those first set elements prospered, because they were all under the di region of exclusive companies, which hed neither abilities to chuse the best situations, nor a fui.ci.'nt flock to wait for their returns. One monopoly followed another in a rapid succession, but without gaining, any advantage; it was pursued with greediness, without a plan, or any means to carry it into execution. All these different companies successively ruined thcnlf!es, and the irate was no gainer by their loss. So many expeditions hid colt France more men, more money, and more flaps, than other states would have expended in the foundation of great empires. At last Samuel de Champlain went a considerable way up the river S. Lawrence, and in ices upon the borders of that river laid the foundation of Quebec, which became the center and capital of New France or Canada. THE unbounded fra, C that opened itself to the view of this colony, discovered only dark, thick and deep forests, whose height alon was a proof of their antiquity. Numberless large rivers came cov.n from a considerable distance to water thclf immense regions. The intervals between them wee full of lakes. Four of there measured from two to five bundled league round. Thetis fort of inland seas communicated with hath other; and their waters, after forming the great river S. Lawrence, considerably increased the bed of the ocean. Every thing in this rude part of the new world appeared grand and sublime. Nature here displayed such luxuriance and ma jetty as commanded veneration; and a thousand wild graces, far superior to the artificial beauties of our climates.
BO OK mates. Here the imagination of a painter or a poet would have been raised, animated, and filled with those ideas which leave a lasting impression on the mind. All these countries exhaled an air fit to prolong life. This temperature which from the position of the climate muff have been extremely pleasant, lost nothing of its whole sameness by the singular severity of a long and intense winter. Those who impute this singularity merely to the woods, springs, and mountains, with which this country abounds, have not taken every thing into consideration Others add to these causes of the cold, the elevation of the land, a pure aerial atmosphere, seldom loaded with vapours, and the direction of the winds, which blow from north to south over frozen seas. Gorvrn- YET the inhabitants of this sharp and bleak climate mens, Nui were but thinly clad. A cloak of buffalo or beaver skin, torn, vir tue;, r' c bound with a leathern girdle, and stockings made of roe andv2rsofbuck skin, was the whole of their dress before their in the savages that intercourse with us. What they have added since gives bited Ca great offence to their old men, who are ever lamenting the degeneracy of their manners. FEW of there savages knew any thing of husbandry; they only cultivated maize, and that they left entirely to the management of the women, as being beneath the dignity of independent men. Their bitterest imprecation against an enemy was, that he might be reduced to till the ground. Sometimes they would condescend to go a filling; but the employment of their life and their glory was hunting. For this purpose the whole nation went out as they did to war; every family, every hut, marched in search of sustenance. They prepared for the expedition by severe fasting, and never stirred out till they had implored the assistance of their god; they did not pray for strength to kill the bears, but that they,might
might be so fortunate as to meet with them. No persons B 0 0 K staid at home except infirm and old men; all the rest XV. sallied forth, the men to kill the game, and the women to dry and bring it home. They imagined that the winter was the finest season of the year: the bear, the roe-buck, the flag and the elk could not then run with any degree of swiftness, through show that was four or five feet deep on the ground. The savages, who were stopt neither by the bushes, the torrents, the ponds, nor the livers; and who could out-run most of the swifter animals, were fel dom unsuccessful ir the chace. When they failed in their sport, they lived upon acorns; and for want of these, they fed upon the sap or inner skin that grows between the wood and the bark of the aspen-tree and the birch. IN the interval between their hunting parties, they made or mended their bows and arrows, the rackets for running upon the flow, and the canoes for crossing the lakes and rivers. These travelling implements, and a few earthen pots, were all the arts of these wandering nations. Those among them who were collected in towns, added to these the labours requisite so; their fe century way of life, for the fencing of their huts, and securing them from being attacked. The savages then gave themselves up to a total inaction, in the most pro found security. This people, content with their lot, and satisfied with what nature afforded them, were unacquainted with that restlessness which arises from a sense of our own weakness, that loathing of ourselves and every thing about us, that necessity of flying from solitude and easing ourselves of the burthen of life by throwing it upon others. THEIR stature in general was beautifully proportioned, but they had more agility than strength, and were better,calculated
B 0 O K calculated for swiftness than hard labour. Their features , were regular, with that fierce countenance which they contracted in war and hunting. The r complexion was copper-colour; and they had it from nature, which tans all men who are constant exposed to the open air This complexion was rendered still more disagreeable by the absurd custom that all '. ces hae of painting their bo dies and faces, either to d:ftiru'f h eah .her at a distance or to make themselves mere agreeable to their distresses or more formidable in war. Besides this varnish, they rubbed themselves with the fat of quadrupeds, or the oil of fish, which prevented the intolerable flings of gnats and inserts, that swarm in uncultivated countries. These ointments were prepared and mixed up .isti certain red juices, which were supposed to be a dcd.iy poison to the mofchettoes. To these feer.,l method s of anointing themselves, which penetrate and discolour the skin, may be added the fumigations they made in their huts to keep off those infects, and the smoke of the fires they kept all the winter to warm themselves, and to dry their meat. This was fu-ancient to make them appear fright ful to our people, though they undoubtedly imagined that it ajdud to their beauty. t1 heir lit, smell, and hearing, and all their senses were remarkably quick, and gave them early notice of tiger dangers and wants. These were few, but their fick:ncffcs were still fewer. They hardly knew of any bit what wre occasioned by too violent exercise, or eating too much aitcr long ab ftinence.,THEIR population was but rr.odcra: ; and pori.bly this might be an advantage to them. Polished nations must wish for n increase of p pulsation, because as they are governed by ambitious rulers, the more inclined to war from not being personally ended in it, they are under necessity
necessity of fighting, either to invade or repulse their K,xv. neighbours; and because they never have a sufficient ex tent of territory to satisfy their enterprizing and ex pensive way of living But unconnected nations, who are alway s wandering, and guarded by the deserts which divide them, who can fly when they are attacked, and whose poverty preserves them from committing or suffering any injustice; filch savage nations had no occasion to multiply. if they are but able to resist the wild beasts, occasionally to drive av.ay, an insignificant enemy, and mutually to aulis each ri'.cr, nothing more is required. If they were more populous, they w.ouid the sooner have exhausted the country they inhabit, and be forced to re move in search of others, the only, or at least, the great eft misfortune attending their precarious way of life independent of thclc reflections, which, possibly, did not occur Io strongly to the fax.agts of Canada, the na ture of things was alone sufficient to check their increase. Though they lived in a country abounding in game and fish, yet in some seasons, and formcimes for whole years, this single resource failed them: and famine then made a dreadful havock among people, who were at too great a distance to assist each other. Their wars or transient hostilities, the result of old animosities, were very de ftructivc. Men constantly accustomed to hunt their prey, to tear in pieces the animal they had overtaken, to hear the cries of death, and see the shedding of blood, musc have been ill more unmerciful in war, if possible, than our own people. In a word, notwithstanding all that has been said in favour of inuring children to hardships, and which miffed Peter the Creat to such a degree, that he ordered th:.t none cf his sailors children should drink any thing bit sea water; on experiment which proved fatal to all who tried its it is certain, that a great nimny,\oung
B O0 K young savages perished through hunger, thirst, cold and XV. fatigue. Even those whole constitution was firongenough,to bear the usual exercises of those climates, to swim over the broadest rivers, to go two hundred leagues on a hunt ing party, to live many days without sleep, to subsist a considerable time without any food; such men must have been exhausted, and totally unfit for the purposes of ge negation. Few lived so long as our people, who lead a more uniform and quiet life the austerity of a Spartan education, the custom of inuring children to hard labour and coarse food, has been productive of dangerous mistakes. Philosophers, desirous of alleviating the miseries incident to mankind, have en devoured to comfort the wretched who have been doom ed to a life of hardships, by persuading them that it was the most wholesome and the best. The rich have eager ly adopted a system, which hardened their hearts against the sufferings of the poor, and excused them from the duties of humanity and compassion. But it is a mistake to imagine that men who are employed in the more la various arts of society, Should live as long as those who enjoy the fruit of their toil. Moderate labour strengthens the human frame: excessive labour impairs it. A peasant is an old man at sixty, whilst the inhabitants of towns, who live in affluence and with some degree of moderation, frequently attain to fourscore and upwards. Even men of letters, whose employments are by no means conducive to health, afford many instances of longevity. Let not our modern productions propagate this fife and cruel error, and encourage the rich to disregard the groans of the poor, and transfer all their sensibility from their vassals to their dogs and horses. THREE original languages were spoken in Canada, the Algonquin, the Sioux, and the Huron. They were con-,fidered
filtered as primitive languages, because each of them con B 0 0 K,xv. gained many of those imitative words, which convey an idea of things by the found. The dialect derived from them, were nearly as many as their towns. No abstruse terms were found in those languages, because the infant mind of the savages seldom goes beyond the present ob sect and the present time ; and as they have but few ideas, they seldom want to represent several under one and the same sign. Besides, the language of there people, ge neatly arising from a quick, single, and strong sensation, excited by the great scenes of nature, contracted a lively and poetical cast in their strong and active imagination. The astonishment and admiration which their very ignorance excited, gave them a strong propensity to exaggeration Their foul expressed what their eyes saw; their language painted, as it were, natural object in firing co louring, and their discourses were quite picturesque. For want of terms agreed upon to denote certain compound ideas, they made use of figurative expressions. What was fill wanting in speech, they supplied by their gestures, their attitudes, their bodily motions, and the modulations of the voice. The boldest metaphors were more familiar to them in common conversation, than they are even in epic poetry in the European languages. Their speeches in public assemblies, especially, were full of images, energy, and pathos. No Greek or Roman orator ever spoke, perhaps, with more strength and sublimity than one of their chiefs. Our people wanted to persuade them to remove at a distance from their native soil. Tre were born, said he, en this ground, cur-fifths lie buried in it. Shall we say to the lines of our fathers, arse, and come with sr into foreign land? IT may easily he imagined that such nations could not be so gentle nor so weak as those of South America. They,fhcvwcd
B 0 O K shewed that they had that activity and energy which is XV.,always found in the northern nations, unless, like the Laplanders, they are of a oirFercnt species from ourselves. Thevv had but just attained to t' t coerce of knowledge and cii iz:tion, to which if ,nio alone may lead men in the space of a fetters ani i it rr.ig such people that a philosopher mr.y ftuji man in his natural ftatc.,THEY were dii led into several small nations, whose form of government was nearly similar. Some had he redstart chiefs; others ended term ; the greater part were on!v directed' b their old men. Thevvy were mere associations, formed b; chance ant always free, united, indeed, but bound b-,' no tic. Thevv will of individuals was not even overruled by the general one. All decisions were considered only as matter of advw;-, which was not binding, or enforced by any penalty. If, in one of these singular republics, a man was condemned to death, it was rather a kind of war rags ins a common enemy, than an a& of justice exercised against a subject. Instead of coercive power; good mer inert, ex-mile, education, a respect for old men, and p;toenti affection, maintained peace in these societies, that nat neither laws nor pro party. Reason, which bad not been milled by prejudice, or corrupted by pall. n, as it is with us, served them in stead of mrr-l precepts and regulations of police. Har mony and security were maintained without the interposition of government. Authority never encroached upon that powerful instinct of nature, time love of independence which enlightened bv reason produces in us the love of equality. Hence arises that regard which the savages have for each other. Thevvy lviii their expression of seem, and expect the same in return. Thevvy aie obliging, but re er ed i they weigh their words, and listen with greatest
Their gravity, which looks like a kind of B0 0 K melancholy, is particularly observable in their national X assemblies. Every one speaks in his turn, according to his age, his experience and his services. No one is ever interrupted, either by indecent reflections or ill-timed ap pause. Their public affairs are managed with such disinterestedness as is unknown in our governments, where the welfare of the state is hardly ever promoted but from selfish views or party spirit. It is no uncommon thing to hear one of there savage orators, when his speech has met with universal applause, telling those who agreed to his opinion, that another man is more deserving of their confidence. THIS mutual respect amongst the inhabitants of the same place prevails between the several nations, when they are not in actual war. The deputies are received and treated with that friendship that is due to men who come to treat of peace and alliance. Wandering nations, who have not the least notion of a domain, never negociate for a propel of conquest, or for any interests relative to dominion. Even those who have a fettled home, never quarrel with others for coming to live in their distrain provided they do not molest them. The earth, say they, is made for all men; no one muff possess the share of two. All the politics, therefore, of the savages consist in forming leagues against an enemy who is too numerous or too (strong, and in suspending hostilities that become too destructive. when they are agreed upon a truce or league of amity, it is ratified by mutually exchanging a belt or firing of beads, which are a kind of snail shells. The white ones are very common; but the purple ones, which are scarcer, and the black, which are still more so, are much referred. They work them into a cylindrical form, bore them, and then make them up into branches or necklaces. The branches vol. IV. C are
B 0 O Bare about a foot long, and the beads are firing upon XV. ,, them in straight rows. The necklaces are broad belts, on,which the beads are placed in rows, and neatly tacked down with little sips of leather. The measure, weight and colour of these shells, determine the importance of the business. They serve as jewels, as records, and as an nails. They are the bond of union between nations and in individuals. They are the sacred and inviolable pledge which gives a sanction to words, to promises, and to treaties. The chiefs of towns are the keepers of there records. They know their meaning ; they interpret, them; and by means of there signs, they transmit the history of the country to their young people. As the savages possess no riches, they are of a bene volent turn. A striking instance of this appears in the care they take of their orphans, widows and infirm people. They liberally share their Scanty provision with those whose crops have failed, or who have been unsuccessful in hunt ing or rising. Their tables and their huts are open night and day to strangers and travellers. This generous hospitality, which makes the advantages of a private man a public blessing, is chiefly conspicuous in their entertain ments. A savage claims respect, not so much from what he possesses as from what he gives away. Accordingly the whole provision of a fix months chace is often ex pended in one day, and he who treats enjoys more plea sure than his guests. NONE of the writers who have described the manners of the savages have reckoned benevolence amongst their virtues. But this may be owing to prejudice, which has made them confound antipathy and resentment with na tural temper. These people neither love nor esteem the Europeans, nor are they very kind to them. The in equality of conditions, which we think so necessary forth
the well-being of society, is in their opinion the greatest B 0O K folly. They are shocked to see that amongst us, one, V man has more property than several others put together, and that this first injustice is productive of a second; which is, that the man who has most riches is on that account the most respected. But what appears to them a mean ness below that of the brute creation is, that men who are equal by nature should sloop to depend upon the will or the caprice of another. The respect we shew to titles, dignities, and especially to hereditary nobility, they call an insult, an injury to human nature. Whoever knows how to guide a canoe, to beat an enemy, to build a hut, to live upon little, to go a hundred leagues in the woods, with no other guide than the wind and fun, or any pro vision but a bow and arrows; he is a man, and what more can be expected of him ? That restless disposition which prompts us to cross so many seas, to seek a fortune that flies before us, appears to them rather the effect of poverty than of industry. They laugh at our arts, our manners, and all those customs which inspire us with vanity, in proportion as they remove us from the slate of nature. Their frankness and honesty is rouzed to indignation at the tricks and cunning which have been practised in our dealings with them. A multitude of other motives, some founded on prejudice, but most on reason, have rendered the Europeans odious to the Indians. They have used reprisals, and are become harsh and cruel in their dealings with us. That aversion and contempt they have conceived for our morals, has always made them shun our society. We have never been able to reconcile any of them to the indulgences of our way of life, whereas we have seen some Europeans forego all the con sentences of civil life, go into the forests, and take up the bow and the club of the savage. An innate spirit of,C 2 benevolence
B 0 0 K'bnevolence,- however, Itonetiimes brins them back to, us. At the bh'niniing of the winter a French vessel was wrecked upon the rocks of Anticofli. Such of the sailors as had eftapd in this dclcrt and savage island the rigour of ths; .t.ln and tie dangers oft famine, constructed from the remains of their fillip, a bark, which, in the fling scan. r, conveyed t5h-m to the continent. They were ob ser di in a l-nazud and expiring frtte by a c.:noe fuel of ravages. ]B,'-'.,z''1 , ; ia the chief of this solitary family, car l I-,;1ef :i.CsCL'DlaeI to him, t,.e-wth cake are ,.:: ''. ::: .; ;r-5r , :;.,.i.c. J!'c arc ;iron, and the re:' '- r ar, ss ni. et '. tIs it', t.i i-ace a§ ,? us as misc j, in et.'rs s :' .s :r es these humane expressions were ac cormr.pnic-i whip every kind of help three generous savages hdi it in their pu-,wr to below ,OSE t'-.in was wanting to complete the happiness of the free Americans; they were not passionately fond of tbh': .v. ivr. Nature indeed has bestowed on their women a-o'.d rfhp, beautiful e,-s, pleasing features, and cln: 'i.'ck hair. 'eli these accun-.plifirm.c;:s are no longer reared than wvhi'li they are in a sPate of independence. Thv;- no horner submit to the matrimonial yoke, but that e'en :h.rir husband, who is the only man they love, grows insensible to tnhoe charms they are us liberal of before marriage. Indeed, they are doomed to a way of life that is not favur.b'e tc beauty. Their features alter, and they hoc' at ncc thee desire and the power of pleasing. They are laboliniu, indefatigable ad active. They dig the ground, f1w, and reap; whilst their husbands, who disdain to fit op to the drudgeries of husbandry, amuse them selves with hunting, fiihin, shooting with a bow, and exercising the dominion of iman over the earths'. .'; of th-ce nation' allow a plurality cf wives, and even three that do not pra&filc plaza' y, admit of di-,vorce,
voice. The very idea of an indissoluble ti:, never once B o o K entered the thoughts of tl;ele peo(,'e v.ho are free till de th. When those who are married disgrace, the part by consent, and divide theirchi:d,cn betwenii them. Noticing appears to them more repugnant to n,,t;ire and ceylon than the contrary filled wh;cli prevail among christians. 7T-! great spirit, f y they, hath c, 't, , 7ts .d tc be ', py ; a,/!i wtfo J'.u',l offeii him, te,' re t:l i:l' i:; a ?cilct:;aiJiatc of ccn/ltr.int anil lunecfii js. This fisliem .iiee. .with what one of the Mlialmii hid to one ot our li.lon.l;ei. As y wife anil I were eoitinuaiy at i, ris .ccr. A ly .ni U ,ar disagrees equally with Isis. V1/ l i.vc ia re,, u'i ia, and are all i,tis)cd.,Ir has been gener:!!)y Said that the savages are not much addicted to the piastres of love. luit if they ate not lb fond of women as civilized pcplie are, it is not, perhaps, for want of powers or inclination to population). But the fret wants of nature may, p.;h:aps, check in them the claims of the second. Their ihlenltli is almost all ex haunted in procuring their food-sting and ('thr ex petitions leave them neither !;e opportunity ncr the fire of attending to population: no watering nation can ever be populous. V hat must-cc(lne e of wilder ob ligcd to fellow their hulb.ind; t; the dillainte of a hundred Leagues, with children at their brcal or in tlheit .:;s ? What would become of the child:r:l thcini'sxc ,I de privet of the milk that m'l!t neccii':rilv dry up in the course of the journey ? Hunting t'icn ipreciett the in crease of mankind, and even ildcfrov: it. .'. IL. ne war prior refills the fiedlciig arts of yo i. ver :i'cn \\h shrine to allure him. Wh\:tn nature cen'l els this tender tex to mark: the fir t advances, and to pursuer the men that fy them:, thole who are tela in;'amild v.ith niltarv ardour, than with the charms of beauty, xiecld to the temptation.,C3 lut
B o o K But the true warriors who have been early taught that an,intercourse with women enervates strength and courage, do not gore way. Canada, therefore, is not a desert from natural defects, but from the track cf life which its in habitants pursue. Though they) are as fit for procreation as our northern people, all their strength is employed for their own preservation. Hunger does not allow them to attend to the softer pavilions. If the people of the south sacrifice every thing to this desire, it is because the first is easily satisfied. In a country where nature is very pro lific, and man consumes but little, the overplus of his strength is turned wholly to population, which is like wise affixed by the warmth of the climate. In a climate where men consume more than nature affords them with ease; the time and the faculties of the human species are exhausted in fatigues that are detrimental to population but a further proof that the savages are not less in lined to women than we are, is, that they are much fonder of their children. Their mothers suckle them till they are four or five years old, and sometimes to fix or seven. From their earliest infancy, their parents respect their natural independence, and never beat or chide them, because they will not check that free and martial spirit, which is one day to constitute their principal character They even forbear to make use of strong arguments to persuade them, because this would be in some measure a restraint laid upon their free will. As they are taught nothing but what they want to know, they are the hap priest children upon earth. If they die, the parents la ment them with deep regret. The father and mother will Sometimes go fix months after, and weep over the grave of their child, and the mother will sprinkle it with her own milk.,The
THE ties of friendship amongst the savages are almost B O O K as firing as those of nature, and more lasting. These are never broken by that variety of classing interests, which, in our societies, weaken even the tenderest and most sacred connexions. There the heart of one man chuses another, in which he deposits his inmost thoughts, his sentiments, his projects, his sorrows and his joys. Every thing becomes common between two friends. Their union is for life; they fight side by side; and if one falls, the other constantly dies upon his friend's body. If they are separated in tome imminent danger, each calls upon the name of his friend; each invokes his spirit, this is his tutelar deity. THE savages shew a degree of penetration and sagacity, which astonishes every one wth has not observed how much our arts and methods of life contribute to render our minds flow and native: because we are seldom put to the trouble of thinking, and have only to learn what is already discovered. If they have brought nothing to perfection any more than the most sagacious animals, it is, probably, because these people, having no ideas but such as relate to their present wants, the equality that subsists between them, lays every individual under a necessity of thinking for himself, and of spending his whole life in' acquiring this occasional learning: hence it may be rea finally inferred, that the sum total of ideas in a society of savages is no more than the sum of ideas in each in individual. INSTEAD of abstruse meditations, the savages delight in songs. They are said to have no variety in their sing ing; but we are uncertain whether those that have heard them had an ear properly adapted to their music. When we first hear a foreign language, the words seem all the same, we think it is all pronounced with the same tone,,C 4 without
B O K without any modulation or prosody. It is only by con Xv,, tinged habit that we learn to distinguish the words and fy!!lblet, and to perceive that some ale dull, and others sharp, some long and others short. The same may be equally true with regard-to the melody of a people, whose song must bear some analogy to their speech thei. dances are generally an image of war, and they usually dance completely armed. They are so exact, quick-::d dreadful, that 2i European, when first he lees there, cannot help being struck with horror. He imagines that the ground will in a moment be covered with blood and scattered limbs, and that none of the dancers or the sFepd.Ltors will remain. It is somewhat remarkable, that in the fire aces of the world, and amongst savage nations. dancing shotid \e an imitative art, and that it hould have lc.tf that characteristic in eiviizcd countries, where it seems to be reduced to a set of frets without nearing. Iut it is with dances as with languages, they grow ab'it-!c d like the ideas they are intended to represent TIe 'C; !s of them are more allegorical, as the minds of :he people becrr.e more refined. In the same manner as a i.r.:e word, in a learned language, expresses several i.!.'-; ic, i -n allegorical dance, a single !step, a finz!e a::.: c, is efficient to excite a variety fl nations. It is o::'ir- o-ant of imagination either in the dancers, or the frtci-tcrs, if a fig d dance is rot, or does not appear to be expressive. eI;cids, the savages ein exhibit none but Strong pains and fierce manners , and these must be represented by more significant images in their dances, which are r'-e language of ge-sure, the lift and simplest of a'l logiages. Nations living in a state of ci i! icic;y and in peace, hare only the gentler passions to repress:, which are b-el expressed by delicate images, fit to cogency refined ideas. It might not, however, be im-proper
proper sometimes to bring back dancing to its first origin, B o K to exhibit the old simplicity of manners, to revive the first X. sensations of nature by motions which represent them, and to depart from the antiquated and scientific mode of the Greeks and Romans, and adopt the lively and fig visitant images of the rude Canadians. 'HEssE :lvage, ;l ways wholly taken up with the pre sent pavilion, aire extravagantly rid of gaming, as is usual with all idle people, and especially of genius of chance. These men, who are commons; y lo locate, so moderate, so disinterested, and have iucit a command of themselves, are outrageous, free iy and turbulent t play ; tic) lose their peace, their ljnflis, and ali they ,re worth. Destitute of almost every thing, coveting ali they see, and when they like it, cater to have :and joy it, they give them selves up entirely to the quickest and e;iiit means of ac quliring it. This is a consequence of thcil- manners, as well as crf their character. l he fit of present happiness always blinds them as to the evils that may ensue. Their forecast does not even reach from day to night. They are alternately filly children and terrible mei. All depends with them on the prtcicnt moment. Gaming alone would incline them to superstition, even ir they had not a natural propensity to th.it bane of the happiness of mankind. Eut as the) have few physicians or quacks to have recourse to, they fisher lis from this malady than r.noe polished! nations, and are noe open to the voice of reason. The lrequcis have a confuted notion of a first Being who ,moderns the world. They never grieve at the vii which this being permits. When forme mischance befalls them, they say: the man a!vc zcaulrl lave itfoi; and there is, perhaps, more philosophy in this submission than in all the reasonings and declamations of our philosophers. Most other stage nations worflip,those
B OO Those two first principles, which occur to the human,xv. '. -, mind as soon as it has acquired any conception of invisible substances. Sometimes they worship a river, a forest, the fun or the moon ; in short, any beings in which they have observed a certain power and motion; because wherever they see motion which they cannot account for, there they suppose a foul. THEY seem to have some notion of a future slate; but. as they have no principles of m(,r'lity, they do not think that the next life is a state of reward for virtue and pu punishment for vice. Their opinion of it consists in be living that the indefatigable huntsman, and the fearless and merciless warrior, the man who has fain or burnt many enemies, and made his own town victorious, will after death go into a country, where he will find plenty of all kinds of animals to assure his hunger; whereas those who are grown old in indolence and without glory, will be for ever banished into a barren land, where they will be eternally tormented with famine and sickness. Their tenets are suited to their manners and their wants. They believe in such pleasures and such sufferings as they are acquainted with. They have more hopes than fears, and are happy, even in their delusions. Yet they are often tormented with dreams. Ignorance is prone to look for something mysterious in dreams, and to ascribe them to the agency of some powerful being, who takes the opportunity when our faculties are suspended and lulled alecep, of watching over us in the absence of our fcnfcs. It is as it were a foul, distinct from our own, that glides into us, to in form us of what is to come, when we cannot yet see it; whereas futurity is always present to that Being who created it.,Is
IN the bleak climates of Canada, where the people BOO live by hunting, their nerves are apt to be overstrained by. the inclemency of the weather, and by fatigue and long abstinence. When there savages have melancholy and troublesome dreams; they fancy they are surrounded with enemies ; they see their town surprised, and swimming in blood; they receive injuries and wounds; their wives, their children, their friends are carried off. When they awake, they take there visions for a warning from the gods, and that tear which fist inspired them with this no tion, makes them look more fierce and gloomy. The old women, who are useless in the world, dream forth safety of the common wealth. Some weak old men too, dream on public affairs, in which they have no share or influence. Young men who are unfit for war, or la various exercises, will dream too, that they may bear some part in the administration of the clan. In vain hath it been attempted during two centuries to dispel illusions so deeply rooted. You ch,'ijians, have always answered the savages, you laugh at t.'e faith uwe have in dreams, and yet require us to believe things infinitely mare improbable. Thus we see in there untutored nations the feeds of priestcraft with all its train of evils. WERE it not for there melancholy fits and dreams, there would scarce ever be any contentions amongst them. Europeans who have lived long in those countries, assure us they never saw an Indian in a passion. Without fu perfection, there would be as few national as private quarrels. PRIVATE differences are most commonly adjusted by the bulk of the people. The respect shewn by the na tion to the aggrieved party, soothe his self-love, and disposes him to peace. It is more difficult to prevent quarrels or put an end to hostilities, between two nations.,WAR
B O O K WAR often takes its rise from hunts;. VWrhen two Xv. companies, which were separated by a forest a hundred leagues in extent, happen to meet, and to interfere with each other's sport, they soon quarrel, and turn those weapons against one another, v which were intended for the destruction of bears. This fPiilih skirmish is a feed of eternal discord. The vanquish d party swears im placable vengeance against the conquerors, a national ha red which will live in their pr-otrtiitv-, and re ive out of their ashes. These quarrels, howe er, are fractures fished in the wounds of bc:h parties, .win (,n each side there happen to be only some fiery youths, who are desirous of trying their skill, and wh Ae impatience has hurried them too far. But the rage of whole nations is not easily kindled. When there is a causa for war, it is not left to the judgment and decision of one man. The nation meets, and the chief speaks. He states the grievances. The mat ter is considered, the dangers and the consequences of a rupture are carefully balanced. The speakers enter di directly on the f wabje, without stopping, without digression, ormiflakin. the case. The several interests are discussed with a strength of reaicnin und eloquence that arises from the evidence ard fir.p!icil: of the object ; and even with an impartiality that is leIs biassed by their strong passions, than it is v.ith us be a complication of ideas. If they unanimously de-ide sr war by an universal shout, the allies are invited to ;rill them, wh:chi they fulom refuse, as they always hat e ioome injury to iej c:;r, , or fume dead to replace hby prisoners. THEY next proceed to the e:cc-iin of a chief, or cap tain of the expedition; and-r-iat f ref is laid upon physiognomy This n mihi: be a \erv fi:l.:iois and even ridiculous way of ud;irg often, v.hcr th:' h':' e been trained,up
up from their infancy to disguise their real sentiments, and B O0 K,XV. where, by a constant practice of dissimulation and facetious passions, the countenance is no longer expressive of the mind. But a famae, who is solely guided by nature, and is acquainted with its workings, is seldom mistaken in the judgment he forms at first fight. The chief requisite next to a warlike asper, is a firing voice; because in armies th.it march without drums or clarion, the bet ter to lu!rpriae the enemy, nothing is so proper to found an alarm, or to give the signal tor the onset, as the terrible voice of a chief who (thongs and strikes at the same time. But the best recommendations for a general, are his exploits. 1 very one is at liberty to boat of his victories in order to march foremost to meet danger; to tell what he has done, ill order to shew what he will do; and the Savages think self-condemnation not unbecoming a hero who can flew his scar she that is to head the reit in the road to viaory, never fails to harangue them. "Comrades, says he, the bones of " our brother are till uncovered. They cry out against " us; we mull satisfy them. Young men, to arms; fill " your quivers; paint yourselves with gloomy colours " that may strike terror. Let the woods ling with our ' warlike songs. Let us sooth the dead with the shouts " of vengeance. Let us go and bathe in the blood of " our enemies, take prisoners, and fight as long as water " shall sow in the rivers, and as long as the fun and,muoon shall remain sixed in the firmament." AT these words, the brave men who long to encounter the hazards of var, go to the chief .nd sav, I will r-ijut with, thee. So mou vast, replies the chief, we will refute io tt'.rl . ,But as nos ole h:a bLc n i'.iicitd, left a f.!le point cos honour should induce cowards to mn arch, a man nut undergo many trials before ile can be admitted as soldier.
B o0 Soldier. If a young man, who has never yet faced the xv.,.enemy, should betray the least impatience, when, after long abstinence, he is exposed to the scorching heat of the fun, the intense frosts of the night, or the bloody stings of infects, he would be declared incapable and un worthy to bear arms. Are our militias and armies formed in this manner ? On the contrary, what a mournful and ominous ceremony is ours ! Men who have not been able te ave themselves by fight, from being pressed into the service, or could net procure an cecmpti;n by purchase, or by claiming some privilege, drag t!e.m.fci!es heavily along, with downcast looks, and pale dejected faces, before a delegate, whose function, are odious to the people, and whose honesty is doubtful. The afflicted and trembling parents seem to be following their son to the grate. A black scroll, issuing from a fatal urn, points out the victims-which the prince devotes to war. A distracted mother in vain presses her son to her bosom, and strives to detain him; he is torn from her arms, and she bids him farewell for ever, cursing the day of her marriage and that of her delivery. It is not surely thus that good soldiers are to be formed. It is not in this mournful way, and with such consternation that the savages meet victory. They march out in midst of festivity, singing and dancing The youn; married women, follow their husbands for a day or two, but without shewing any signs of grief or sorrow. Thele women, who never once cry out in the pangs of child-birth, would scorn to soften the minds of the defenders and avengers of their country, by their tears, or even by their endearments. THEIR weapons are a kind of spear armed with sharp bones, and a small club of very hard wood, with one cutting edge. Instead of th's last, since their acquaint ance .with the Europeans, they make use of a hatchet,,which
which they handle with amazing dexterity. Moi of them B 0 0 K have no instrument of defence but if they chance to attack the pales that surround a town, they cover their body with a thin plank. Some used to wear a kind of cuirass made with plaited reeds, but they left it off, when they saw it was not proof against fire arms. THE army is followed by dreamers, who assume the name of jugglers, and are too often suffered to determine the military operations. They march without any co lours. All the warriors, who fight almost naked to be the more alert, daub their bodies with coals, to appear more terrible, or else with mould, to conceal themselves data distance, and the better to surprize the enemy. Notwithstanding their natural intrepidity, and aversion for all disguise their wars degenerate into artifice. These deceitful arts common to all nations, whether savage or civilized, are become necessary to the petty nations of Canada. They would have totally destroyed one another, had they not made the glory of their chiefs to consist in bringing home all their companions, rather than in shedding the blood of their foes. Honour, therefore, is to be gained by falling upon the enemy before he is aware. These people, whose senses have never been impaired, are ex extremely quick scented, and can discover the places where men have trod. By the keenness of their fight or smell, it is said they can trace footsteps upon the forrest grass, upon the dry ground, and even upon stone; and from the nature of the footsteps, can find out what nation they belong to. Perhaps, they may discover this by the leaves with which the forests always shrew the ground when they are so fortunate as to surprize the enemy, they discharge a whole volley of arrows, and fall upon him with their clubs or hatchets in their hands. If he is upon his guard, or too well intrenched, they retreat if,they
B 0 0 K they can; if nut, they mush fi,.ht till they conquer or, die. The victorious party dif'latth the wounded men,whom they could nut carry away,. scalp the dead, and take tome [:fol:ers.,THE conqueror leaves his hatchet upon the field of battle, ha inp pr-\s iiuq' cntras cd upon it the mask of his nation, that of h!. fa'ni'\, and especially hi, own picture; that is to ie, an oval with the figures inrkcd on his own face. C'thrs prit :il thcife enfg;s of honour, or rather trophies of i, to', on the fluor p cf a tree, or on a piece of the balk, worn coal mixed up wth several colours. To this they add tnh history, net cnvl of the battle, but of the whose campaign n in hieroglyphic characters. Im mediate after the general's picture, are thole of his soldiers, mark-'d by so mans lines the number of prisoners pointed out by so many little images, and that of the dead by so miry hurn.an figures without heads. Such are the expreii.'e and technical signs which, in all original societies, have preceded the art of writing and print ing, and the voluminous 'brasses which fill the palaces of the rich and idle, and incumber the heads of the learned. THE history of an Indian war is but a short one; they make haec to fat it don , for far the enemy should turn back and fall upon him. Slit conqueror glories in a precipitate retreat, and rever flops till he reaches his own territory and his own town. 'I here he is received with the warmeR transports (.f joy, and finds his reward in the applause of his countrymen. They then consider how they shall dispose of the prilfocrs, who are the only fruit of their victory the most fortunate rs the captives are those who are chosen to replace the swa iicr! who sell in the late action, cr n former bL.;tles. This adoption has been wisely con-strive,
trivet, to perpetuate nations which would soon be destroy O O K,XV ed by frequent wars. The prisoners being once incorporated , into a family, become cousins, uncles, fathers, brothers, husbands in short, they succeed to any degree of con sanguinary, in which thedeceafed stood, whose place they supply, and there affectionate titles convey all their rights to them, at the same time that they bind them to all their engagements. Far from declining the attachments which are due to the family that has adopted them, they will not refute even to take up arms against their own countrymen. Yet this is surely a strange inversion of the ties of nature. They must be very weak-minded men, thus to shift the object of their regard with the vicissitudes of fortune. The truth is that war seems to cancel all the bonds of nature, and to confine a man's feelings to himfelfalone. Hence arises that union between friends observable among the savages, Stronger than those that subsist between re nations. Those who are to fight and die together, are more firmly attached than those who are born together, or under the same roof. When war or death has dissolved that kindred which is cemented by nature, or has been formed by choice, the same fate which loads the savage with chains, gives him new relations and friends. Custom and common content have introduced this singular law, which undoubtedly sprang from necessity. BUT it sometimes happens that a prisoner refuses this adoption; sometimes that he is excluded from it. A tall handsome prisoner had lost several of his fingers in battle. This circumstance was not noticed at first. Si end, laid the widow to whom he was allotted, we had chosen thee to live with us ; but in the conditio Ife shee, unable to fight and to defend us, of wit tfi is lfjt to t' e? Death is certainly preferable. I i,'i.;, it is, answered the ravage. tWIll then, replied the woman, l(,is ev;.';ig tiu shalt le tied to the VOL. IV. D flake.
B O O K.flke. For thy own glory, anson the honour of our family'. . who have adopted thee, remember to behave as a man discourage. He promised he would, and kept his word. For three days, he endured the most cruel torments with a con fancy and chearfulness, that set them all at defiance. His new family never forsook him, but encouraged him by their applause, and supplied him with drink and tobacco in the midst of his sufferings. What a mixture of virtue and ferocity: every thing is great in these people who are not enslaved. This is the sublime of nature in all its horrors and its beauties. THE captives whom none chuse to adopt, are soon con denned to death. The victims are prepared for it by every thing that may tend to inspire them with a regret for life. The best fare, the kindest usage, the most endearing names are lavished upon them. They are even some times indulged with women to the very moment of their sentence. Is this compassion, or is it a refinement of bar rarity ? At last a herald comes, and acquaints the wretch that the pile is ready. Brother, says he, be patient, thou art going to be burnt. 'very well brother, says the prisoner, I thank thee. .THESE words are received with general applause; but the women are the most eager in the common joy. She to whom the prisoner is delivered up, instantly invokes the shade of a father, a husband, a son, the dearest friend whose death is still unrevenged. Draw near, (he cries, I am preparing afeafl fr thee. Come and drink large draughts of tie broth 1 intend IO give thee. This warrior is going to be put into the cauldron. ley will apply hot hatchets all ever his bdy: they will pull of his hair: They will drink out Cf his full: Thu iJbalt be avenged and satisfied. This furious woman then rushes upon her violin who is tied to a post near the fiery pile, and by striking or,maim-
maiming him, she gives the signal for the intended cru-B O 0 K elties, There is not a woman, or a child in the clan whom this fight has brought together, who does not take a part in the torturing and flaying of the miserable cap time. Some pierce his flesh with firebrands i others cut it in slices; some tear off his nails; whilst others cut off his fingers, roast them, and devour them before his face. Nothing flops his executioners but the fear of hastening his end: they study to prolong his sufferings for whole days, and sometimes they make him linger for a whole week. IN the midst of these torments, the hero with great composure sings his death song; insults his enemies, up braids them for their weakness, tells them they know not how to revenge the death of their relations whom he has slain, and excites them by outrages or intreaties to a fur ther exertion of their cruelties. It is a conflict between the victim and his tormentors, a dreadful challenge between constancy in suffering, and obstinacy in torturing. But the sense of glory predominates. Whether this intoxication of enthusiasm suspends or wholly benumbs all sense of pain; or whether custom and education alone produce these prodigies of heroism, certain it is, that the patient dies without ever shedding a tear or heaving a sigh. \ How shall we account for this insensibility ? Is it owing to the climate, or to their manner of life? No doubt colder blood, thicker humors, a constitution rendered more phlegmatic by the dampness of the air and the ground, may blunt the irritability of the nervous system in Cana da. Men who are constantly exposed to all the inclemency of the weather, the fatigues of hunting and the perils of war, contract such a rigidity of the fibres, such a habit of suffering, as makes them insensible to pain. It is said the savages are scarce ever convulsed in the agonies of death, whether they die of sickness or of a wounded 2 As
B 0 0 K As they have no apprehensions, either of the approaches XV.,or the consequences of death, their imagination does not suggest that artificial sensibility which mere nature will inspire. Their where life both natural and moral, is calculated to inspire them with a contempt for death, which we so much dread, and to enable them to overcome the sense of pain which is irritated by our indulgences. EUT what is still more astonishing in the Indians than their intrepidity in torments, is the seriousness of their revenge. It is dreadful to think that man may become the most cruel of all animals. In general, revenge is not atrocious either among nations, or between individuals who are governed by good laws ; because those very laws which protect the fubec'is, keep them from offending. Vengeance is not a very quick sentiment in the wars of great nations, because they have but little to fear from their enemies. But in those petty nations, where every individual constitutes a great part of the fate himself, where the carrying off of one man endangers the whole community, war can be nothing else than the spirit of revenge that actuates the whole fate: amongst independent men, who have that self esteem which can never be felt by men who are under subjection ; amongst savages whose affections are very lively and confined, injuries mnufl necessarily be resented to the greatest degree, because they asses the person in the mors sensible manner: the assassination of a friend, of a son, of a brother, or of a fellow-citizen, cannot but be avenged to the last drop of the murderer's blood. These ever beloved shades are continually calling out for vengeance from their graves. They wander about in the forests, amidst the mournful accents of the birds of night; they appear in tie phosphorus and in the lightening; and superstition speaks for them in the afflicted or incensed her;. of their friends.,WHTHES
WHEN we consider the hatred which the hordes ofB 0 O K these savages bear to each other; the hardships they un XV. tergo; the scarcity they are often exposed to; the frequency of their wars ; the scantiness of their population; the numberless shares we lay for them ; we cannot but foresee that in less than three centuries, the whole race will be extina. What will posterity then think of this species of men, who will exist no more but in the ac counts of travellers ? Will not the times of savages ap pear to them in the same light as the fabulous times of antiquity do to us ? They will speak of them, as we do of the Centaurs and Lapithle. How many contradictions shall we not discover in their customs and manners ? Will not such of our writings as may then have escaped the destructive hand of time, pals for romantic inventions, like those which Plato has left us concerning the ancient Atlantica? The character of the North Americans such as we The have described it, had singularly displayed itself in theFrench,embi oil war between the Iroquois and the Algonquins. These thenllihecs two nations, the largest in Canada, had formed a kind of improperly,. in tile wars confederacy. 'The former, who tilled the ground, im-oftlle ia parted their productions to their allies, who in return wages. shared with them the produce of their chace. Connected as they both were by their reciprocal wants, they mutually defended each other. During the season when the show interrupted all the labours of the field, they lived toge ther. The Algonquins went out a hunting, and the Iroquois staid at home to (kin the baits, cure the flesh and dress the hides.,IT happened one year that a party of Algonquins, who were not very skilful or well versed in the chace, proved unsuccessful. The Iroquois who attended them, desired eave to try whether they should be more fortunate. This,D 3 comb
0 0 Complaisance, which had sometimes been shewn them, XV. . .as denied. Irritated at this unseasonable refusal, they stole away in the night, and brought home a plentiful capture. The Algonquins were greatly mortified, and to blot out the very remembrance of their disgrace, they waited till the Iroquois huntsmen were asleep, and flew them all. This massacre occasioned a great alarm. The offended nation demanded justice, which was haughtily refused, and they were given to understand that they must not even expect the smallest fatisfaaion.,THE Iroquois, enraged at this contemptuous treat ment, swore to be revenged, or perish in the attempt. But not being powerful enough to venture an attack up on the proud offenders, they removed to a greater distance in order to try their strength, and increase themselves in the art of wzr against rome lets formidable nations. As soon as they had learnt to come en like foxes, to attack like lions, and to fly like birds, as they express them selves, they were no longer afraid to encounter the Al gonquins; and, therefore, carried on a war against them with a degree of graciousness proportionable to their refen.rn.tnr.,Ir was just at the time when there animosities were kindled throughout Canada, that the French made their first appearance there. The Montagne, who inhabited the lower parts of the river St. Lawrence; the Alton. ;sins, who lived along the banks of that river, from Quebec to Montreal; the Hurons, who were dispersed about the lake that bears that name; and some lets con alterable nations who wandered about in the intermediate spaces, were all of them inclined to favour the fettle ment of the strangers. These several nations, combined-zainfl the Iroquois, and unable to withstand them, ia nat t-at they might find in their new guests an unexpected
resource, from which they promised themselves 0 0 K infallible success. Judging of the French as if they had known them, they flattered themselves they might engage them in their quarrel, and were not disappointed. Cham plain, who ought to have availed himself of the superiority of knowledge the Europeans had over the Americans, to endeavour to bring about a reconciliation, did not even attempt it. He warmly espoused the interests of his neighbours, and accompanied them in quest of their enemy the country of the Iroquois extended near eighty leagues in length, and somewhat more than forty in breadth. Its boundaries were the lake Erie, the lake Ontario, the river St. Lawrence, and the famous countries since known by.the names of New-york and Pen sylvania. The space between these vast limits was wa tered by several fine rivers. It was inhabited by five na tions, which could bring about twenty thousand warriors into the field; though they are now reduced to less than fifteen hundred. They formed a kind of league or association not unlike that of the Switzers or the Dutch. Their deputies met once a year, to hold their feast of union, and to deliberate on the interests of the common wealth. Though the Iroquois did not expect to be again at tacked by enemies who had so often been conquered, yet they were not unprepared. The engagement was begun with equal confidence on both sides; one part relying on their usual superiority, the other on the alliance of their new ally, whose fire-arms could not fail of insuring the viaory. And, indeed, no sooner had Champlain and the two Frenchmen who attended him fired a shot, which killed two chiefs of the Iroquois, and mortally 4 wounded
B O g wounded a third, than the whole arms fled in the utmost Xv. - . . amazement and confternatinn.,AN alteration in the mode of attack induced them to think of changing their mode of defence. In the next campaign, they imagined it would be necessary to intrench themselves against weapons they were unacquainted with. But their precaution was ineffectual. Notwithstanding an obstinate resistance, their entrenchments were forced by the Indians, supported by a brisKer fire, and a greater number of Frenchmen than in the first expedition. The Iroquois were almost all killed or taken. Those who had escaped the anon were precipitated into a river and drowned. IT is ira. probable that this nation would have been destroyed, or compelled to live in peace, had not the Dutch, who in 161o had founded the colony of new Belgia in their neighbourhood, furnished them with arms and ammunition. Possibly too they might secretly excite their divisions, because the furs taken from the enemy during the continuance of hostilities, were a greater ob jet than those they could procure from their own chace. However this may be, this additional weight restored the balance of strength between both parties. Various hostilities and injuries were committed by each nation, and they were both in consequence of them considerably weakened. This perpetual ebb and flow of success or misfortunes, which, in governments actuated by motives of interest rather than of revenge, would infallibly have restored tranquility, served but to increase their animosities and to exasperate a number of little clans, resolved upon destroying one another. Consequences was, that the weakest of these petty nations were soon destroyed, and the rest were gradually reduced to nothingness.
NOTWITHSTANDING these various checks, the power B 00 ofthe French was not increased. In 1626, they had x yet but three wretched settlements, surrounded with pales. The,Frnllch co The larger of there colonies contained but fifty inhabi-lolymi°kes wants, including men, women and children. The climate pro had not proved destructive to the men that had been sent Cause of there. It was severe but wholesome, and the Europeans this han. strengthened their constitutions there without endangeringguor. their lives. The little progress they made was entirely owing to the system of an exclusive company, whole chief designs were not so much intended to create a national power in Canada, as to enrich itself in the fur trade. The evil might have been immediately removed, by abolishing this monopoly, and allowing a free trade in lieu of it; but it was not yet the time to adopt so simple a theory. The government, however, chore only to employ a more numerous association, which was composed of men of greater property and credit. THEY gave them the disposal of the settlements that were or should be formed in Canada, together with a pow er of fortifying and governing them as they thought pro per, and of making war or peace, as should best promote their interest. The whole trade by sea and land was allowed them for a term of fifteen years, except the cod and whale fisheries, which were left open to ail. The beaver and all the fur trade was granted to the company for ever. To all these encouragements were added further fa yours. The king made a present of two large ships to the company, which consisted of seven hundred men. Twelve of the principal were raised to the rank of no ability. Gentlemen, and even the clergy, already too rich, were invited to share in this trade. The company ere. allowed the liberty of sending and exporting all,kinds
B v K kinds of commodities and merchandise, free of any duty,v » y whatsoever. The person who exercised any trade in theology for the space of fix years, was entitled to the free dom of the same trade in France. The last favour grant ed them was the free entry of all goods that should be manufactured in those distant regions. This unaccountable privilege gave the workmen of New France an in finite advantage over those of the old country, who were encumbered with a variety of duties, letters of master lisp, charges for stamps, and with all the impediments which ignorance and avarice had multiplied without end.,IN return fur so many marks of partiality, the com any, which had a capital of a hundred thousand crowns,(a) engaged to bring into the colony in the year 1628, which was the first year of their privilege, two or three hundred artificers of such trades as were fitted for their purpose, and sixteen thousand men before the year 1643. They were to find them in lodging and board, to maintain them for three years, and afterwards to give them as much cleared land as would be necessary for their subsistence, with a sufficient quantity of grain to sow it the first year. FORTUNE did not second the endeavours of govern ment in favour of the new company. The first Ships they fitted out were taken by the English, who were lately embroiled with France, on account of the siege of Ro celle. Richelieu and Buckingham, who were enemies from jealousy, from personal character, from slate in terest, and from every motive that can breed an irreconcilable enmity between two ambitious ministers, took this opportunity to spirit up the two kings whom they governed, and the two nations they wanted to oppress. The English, who fought for their interests, gained the advantage over the French: and the latter lost Canada in,1629. (a) l ; , St
162q. The council of Lewis XIII. were so little ac B 0 O K quaint with the value of this settlement, that they x . were inclined not to demand the restitution of it; but the pride of the leading man, who considered the en encroachments of the English as a personal insult, as he was then at the head of the company, made them alter their opinion. They met with less difficulty than they expected, and Canada was restored to the French in 1632 by the treaty of S. Germain en Laye.,THE French were not improved by adversity. The same ignorance, the same negligence prevailed after the recovery of Canada as before. The monopolizing com any fulfilled none of their engagements. This breach of promise, far from being punished, was rather, as it were, rewarded by a prolongation of their charter. The clamours, indeed, of all Canada were disregarded, and the deputies sent to represent its wretched situation, were denied access to the throne, where timid truth is never suffered to approach, but is awed into silence by threats and punishments. This behaviour, equally repugnant to humanity, private interest and good policy, was attended with such consequences as nuit naturally be expected from it. Traffic grew languid, as the communication was too dangerous. The Indians, weakly supported by their allies the French, were continually flying before the old enemy, whom they were accustomed to dread. The Iroquois, resuming their superiority, loudly boasted that they should compel the strangers to quit their country, after they had carried off their children to replace filch as they had lost of their own. The French themselves, forgotten by their mother country, and unable to gather in their scanty crops without hazard of their lives, were determined to forsake a settlement that was so ill support ed, Such was the deplorable slate of the colony, that it,was
B O O K was reduced to subsist upon the charities which the missis XV.,onaries received from Europe. The AT last the ministry, awakened from their lethargy by French are round ae a general ferment that seemed at that terre to be putting from their all nations into motion, sent a body of four hundred good inactivity. Means by troops to Canada in 166. This corps was reinforced which this two years after by the rc2imrnt of Carignan. The French effgad. gradually recovered a determined superiority over the Iroquois. Three of their nations, alarmed at their Icffcs, made proposals for an accom.r.,da:i.n n; and the other two were so enfeebled, that they were induced to agree to it in 1668. The colony then first enjoyed profound peace. This laid the foundation of prosperity, and a free trade brought it forwards. The beaver trade alone was till monopolized. THIS revolution proved a spur to industry. The old settlers, whose weakness had till then confined them with in the precin, s of their pales, now ventured to extend their plantations, and cultivated them with better success. All the soldiers, who consented to fettle there, obtained their discharge, together with Tome property. The of fibers had lands granted them in proportion to their rank. The old settlements were improved, and new ones form ed, wherever the interest or safest of the colony required. This spirit and activity brought on a brisk traffic with the Indians, and revived the intercourse between both con talents. It appeared as if this prosperity would increase fill more, by the care the administrators of the colony had taken, not only to keep in amity with the neighbour ing nations, but likewise to establish peace and harmony amongst themselves. Not a ingle at of hostility was committed in an extent of four or sie hundred leagues; a thing perhaps unheard of before in North America. One would have thought the French had kindled the warsaw.
at their first coming, only to extinguish it the more es B 0 0 K,xv. fccaually. . BUT this concord could not lait for ever amongst people who were always armed for the chace, unless the power that had brought it about Should employ a great superiority of forces to maintain it. The Iroquois, when they saw that this precaution was neglected, resumed that restless disposition which arose from their love of revenge and dominion. They were, however, careful to keep on good terms with all who were either allies or neighbours to the French. Notwithstanding this moderation, they were told that they must immediately lay down their arms, and restore all the prisoners they had taken, or ex pec to see their country destroyed, and their habitations burnt down. This haughty summons shocked their pride. They answered that they should never sussex the least encroachment on their independence, and make them sensible that they were friends who were not to be neglected and enemies who were not to be despised. Stag gored, however, with this resolute message, they partly complied with what was required, and the rest was over looked. BUT this kind of humiliation rather increased the re sentient of a people more accustomed to commit than to sussex injuries. The English, who in 1664 had dispossessed the Dutch of New Belgia, and had remained matters of their conquest, which they had called New York, took advantage of the dispositions in which they found the Iroquois. They not only excited the spirit of discord by suggestions, but even added presents to induce them to break with the French. The same artifices were used with the rest of their allies. Those who adhered to their allegiance were attacked. All were ignited, and some compelled to bring their beaver and other furs to,New
BOO K New York, where they sold much better than in the *.v , French colony.,DENONVILLE, who had lately been rent to Canada to enforce obedience to the authority of the proudest of mo monarchs, was impatient of all there insults. Though he was in a condition not only to cover his own frontiers, but even to encroach upon those of the Iroquois, yet as he was sensible that this nation muff not be attacked with out being destroyed, it was agreed that our people should keep in a fate of feeling ir action, till they had received from Europe the necessary power for executing so desperate a resolution. These succours arrived in 1687, and the colony had then I1,249 persons, of whom about one third were able to bear arms. WITH this superiority of forces, Denonville was mean enough to have recourse to stratagem; and dishonoured the French name among the savages by an infamous per fide. Under pretence of terminating their differences by negotiation, he barely abused the confidence which the Iroquois reposed in the Jesuit Somerville, to allure their chiefs to a conference. As soon as they arrived, they were put in irons, embarked at Quebec, and sent to the gallies. ON the first report of this treachery, the old men sent for their missionary, and addressed him thus. "We are author prized to treat you as an enemy, but we cannot resolve " to do it. Your heart has had no share in the insult " that has been put upon us, and it would be unjust to " punish you for a crime you detest still more than our " selves. But you muR leave us. Our hath young men "would look upon you in the light of a traitor, who " has delivered up the chiefs of our nation to shameful " slavery." After this speech, these savages, whom the Eu romans have always called barbarians, gave the missionary guard,
a guard, who never left him till they had brought him to B O 0 K,Xv. a place of safety; and then both parties took up arms. . THE French presently spread terror amongst the Indians bordering upon the great lakes; but Denonville had neither the activity nor dispatch necessary to improve these first successes. Whilst he was wasting his time in deliberating the campaign was closed without the acquisition of any permanent advantage. This increased the bold ness of the Iroquois who lived near the French fettle ments, where they repeatedly committed horrible ravages. The planters, finding their labours ruined by these devastations which even cut off the means of repairing the da mage, ardently wished for a peace. Denonville's temper coincided with their wishes; but it was no easy matter to pacify an enemy whom ill usage had made implacable. Somerville, who still maintained his former ascendent over them, made overtures of peace; which were at tended to.,WHILST there negociations were carrying on, a Machiavel born in the forests, known by the name of Le Rat, the bravest, the most resolute, the most intelligent savage ever found in the wilds of North America, arrived at Fort Frontenac with a chosen band of Hurons, fully determined upon exploits worthy of the' reputation he had acquired. He was told that a treaty was actually on foot, that the deputies of the Iroquois were upon the road to conclude it at Montreal, and that it would disoblige the French governor if they should carry on their hostilities against a nation with which they were negotiating a peace. LE RAT, piqued that the French should thus enter into negotiations without consulting their allies, resolved to punish them for their presumption. He lay in wait for the deputies; tome of which were killed, and the refit,taken
B O 0 K taken prisoners. When they told them the purport of,their voyage, he feigned great surprize, and the more so, as Denonville, he said, had sent him to intercept them. In order to carry on the deceit more successfully, he im mediately released them all except one, whom he kept, as he declared, to replace one of his Hurons, who had been killed in the flay. He then hastened to Michaelis making, where he presented his prisoner to the French commandant, who, not knowing that Denonville was treating with the iroquois, caused the unhappy savage to be put to death. As soon as he was dead, Le Rat sent for an old Iroquois, who had long been a prisoner among the Hurons, and released him tha: he might go and ac quaint his nation, that whilst the French were amusing their enemies with negotiations, they continued to take prisoners and murder them. This artifice, worthy of the most consummately wicked policy, succeeded to his utmost with. The war was renewed with greater fury than ever, and halted the longer, as the English, who were lately embroiled with France, on account of the dethroning of James II, thought it their interest to make an alliance with the Iroquois. AN English fleet, which failed from Europe in 1690, appeared before Quebec in October, to lay siege to the place. They had reason to expel but a faint resistance, as the savages were to make a powerful diversion, which would employ the principal land forces of the colony. But they were compelled Shamefully to relinquish the en surprize, after having curtained great losses. Thecaufes cf this disappointment merit some discussion. WHEN the ministry of London project the reduction of Canada, they determined that the land and sea forces should keep pace with each outer, so as to arrive there r: the same time. This wise plan was executed with the,greatest
greatest precision. As the ships were failing up the river B O K S. Lawrence, the troops were marching along the land, in x order to reach the field of action at the same instant as the fleet. They were close to the spot, when the Iroquois who guided and supported them, recollected the dangers they exposed themselves to, in leading their allies to the conquest of Quebec. Situated as we are, said they, in a council they held, between two European nations, each powerful enough to destroy us, both in treated in our destruction, when they shall no longer stand in need of our assistance, what other measure can we take, but to prevent either from being subdued by the other ? Then will each of them be compelled to court our alliance, or to bribe us to a neutrality. This system, which one might imagine to be dictated by the dame kind of found policy as that which holds the balance of Eu rope, determined the Iroquois to return to their respective homes under various pretences. Their defection obliged the English to retreat; and the French, now in security on their lands, united all their forces with as much har mony as success for the defence of their capital. THE Iroquois, from motives of policy, stifled their resentment against the French, and adhered rather to the name than to the interests of England. These two Eu european powers, therefore, irreconcilable rivals to each other, but separated by the territory of a savage nation, equally apprehensive of the superiority of either, were prevented from doing each other so much injury as they could have wished. The war thereforeconified merely in a few depredations, fatal to the colonists, but of little consequence to the several nations concerned in them. In the midst of the cruelties exercised by the several fm:.Il and combined parties of English and Iroquois, of French and Hurons, whose ravages were extended o;:c hundred vol. IV. E leagues
B o O K leagues from home, some actions were performed, which,rcemed to exalt human nature far above all these bar rarities. Some French and Indians having joined in an expedition that required a long march, their provisions began to fail. The Hurons caught plenty of game, and always offered Come to the French, who were not such skilful huntsmen. The French were desirous of declining the acceptance of this generous offer. You share with us the fatigue f war, said the savages, it is but reasonable that we ,would Jar with yeu t e necessaries of life; we Joulil sot be n:en if wa aced otherwise with ,ren. If Europeans have sometimes been capable of similar magnanimity, the fol lowing is an instance peculiar to savages.,A party of Iroquois being informed that a party of the French and their allies were advancing with superior forces, they fled with precipitation. They were headed by an Montague, who was a hundred years old. He scorned to fly with the rest, and chore rather to fall into the hands of the savage enemies, though he had nothing to expel but exquisite torments. What a fight was this, to see four hundred barbarians eager in tormenting a poor old man, who, far from heaving a sigh, treated the French with the utmost contempt, and upbraided the Hurons with having looped to be the slaves of those vile Europeans ! One of his tormentors, provoked at his invectives, stabbed him in three places, to put an end to his repeated insults. heu jhftuldf not, said the Montague calmly to him, fourteen my life, thou wouldst have had ere titre to learn to die like a man. And are there the men whom the French and English have been conspiring to extirpate for a century past? They would, probably, blush, to live among such models of heroism and magnanimity.,THE
THE peace of Ryswick immediately put an end to the B 0 0 K calamities of Europe and the hostilities in America. In, a. imitation of the French and English, the Iroquois and Hurons were sensible how much they stood in need of a lasting tranquillity to repair the losses they had sustained in war. The Indians began to recover themselves; the Europeans resumed their labours; and the fur trade, the first that could be entered into with a nation of hunts men, was established upon a better footing before the discovery of Canada, the forests with The furs,are the which it was over-run were little more than the extend foundation five haunt of wild beans. They had multiplied proof the con-,nefl&ions piously, because the few men who lived in those deserts ttw^ee without flocks or tame animals, left more room and more the'French,t and the In food for the animal race, wandering and free like them diane. selves. If the nature of the climate did not afford an infinite variety, each species produced, at leaf', a multi tide of individuals, But they at last paid tribute to the Sovereignty of man, that cruel title, so fatal to every living creature. Having neither arts nor husbandry to employ them, the savages fed and clothed themselves wholly at the expence of the wild beasts. As soon as our luxury had made us adopt the use of their skins, the natives waged a perpetual war against them, which was the more active as it procured them plenty, and a variety of gratifications which their senses were un accustomed to, and the more fatal, as they had adopted the use of our fire-arms. This destructive industry brought over from the woods of Canada into the ports of France a great quantity and prodigious variety of fur, some of which were consumed in the kingdom, and the rest were disposed of in the neighbouring countries. Most of there furs were already known in Europe; they came from the northern parts of our own hemispheres 2 but
B O O But in too small quantities to bring them into genera lxv,, fe. Caprice and novelty have brought them more or less into fashion, since it has been found to be for the inter of the American colonies that they should be ad mired in the mother countries. It may not be improper to sav something of those that are still in use. THE otter is a voracious animal, which as it runs or swims along the banks or the lakes of rivers, commonly lives upon flh, and when that fails, will feed upon grass, and even the ring of aquatic plants. From his manner of living he has been ranked amongst amphibious animals, who can equally live in the air and under water; but im properly, since the otter cannot live without respiration, any more than all other land animals. It is sometimes found in all those parts which abound in water, and are temperate, but is much more common and larger in the northern parts of America. His hair is no where so black or so fine, a circumstance the more fatal to him, as it exposes him more particularly to the pursuits of man. THE pole-cat is in great request on the same account. There are three forts of them; the first is the common pole-cat, the second is called the mink, and the third the stinking pole-cat, because his urine, which he lets fly in his fright when he is pursued, is so offensive that it in fears the air at a great distance. Their hair is darker, more glossy', and more silky than in Europe. EVEN the rat in North-america is valuable for his skin. There are two forts chiefly whose skin makes an article of trade. The one, which is called the Opossum, is twice as large as ours. His hair is commonly of a silver grey, sometimes of a clear white. The female has a bag under her belly, which she can open and shut at pleasure. When the is pursued, she puts her young ones,into
into this bag, and runs away with them. The other, B 0 0 K which is called the musk-rat, because his testicles contain XV. musk, has all the inclinations of the beaver, of which he feetns to be a diminutive, and his skin is employed for the same purposes. THE Ermine, which is about the size of a squirrel, but not quite so long, has like him sprightly eyes, a keen look, and his motions are so quick that the eye cannot follow them. The tip of his long and bushy tail is as black as jet. His hair, which is as yellow as gold in summer, turns as white as Snow in winter. This pretty brisk and light animal is one of the beauties of Canada; but though smaller than the Sable, is not so common. THE Martin is only to be met with in cold countries, in the center of the forests, fir from all habitations, and lives upon birds. Though it is but a fi.ot and a half long, it leaves prints on the flow, that appear to be that of a very large animal; because it always jumps along, and leaves the marks of both feet togcthl-. Its brown ;:nd yellow fur is much collected, though far int' prior to that species which is distinguished by the name of the Sable. This is a shining black. The fir:et of the others is that whose brownest skin reaches along the back quite to the tip of the tail. The martins seldom quit the innioft re cesses of their impenetrable woods but once in tito or three years. The natives think it portends a good win ter; that is, a great deal of snow;, and consequently good sport. THE animal which the ancients called L,'nx, known in Siberia by the name of the Ounce, is only called the wild cat in Canada, where it is smaller then in our he mifpherc. This animal, to whom vulgar error would not have attributed very piercing eyes, ir he were not endowed with the faculty of seeing, hearing and smelling 3 at
B 0O Kat a defiance, lives upon what game he can catch, which he pursues to the very tops of the tallest trees. His flesh,is known to be very white and well flavoured, but he is hunted chiefly for the fake of his skin; the hair of which is very long, and of a fine light grey, but less esteemed than that of the Fox. THIS carnivorous and mischievous animal is a native of the frozen climates, where nature affording few vegetables seems to oblige all animals to eat one another. In warmer climates, he has lost much of his original beauty, and his hair has degenerated. In the north, it has remained long, soft and full, sometimes white, some times brown, and often red or sandy. The finest by far is black; but this is more scarce in Canada than in Muscovy which lies further north, and is not so damp besides these smaller furs, North-america supplies us with Skins of the stag, the deer, and the roe-buck; of the moose-deer, called there Caribou; and of the elk, which they call Orignal. These two last kinds, which in our hemisphere are only found towards the polar circle, the elk on this side, and the moche-deer beyond, are to be met with in America in more southern latitudes. This may be owing to the cold being more intense in America, from singular causes which make an exception to the general law; or, possibly, because these fresh lands are less frequented by destructive man. Their firing, for and warm (king make excellent garments, which are very light. All these animals, however, are hunted for the Europeans; but the savages have the chace that be longs to them, and is peculiarly their favourite. It is that of the bear, which is best adapted to their warlike manners, their strength and their bravery, and especially to their wants.,IN
IN a cold and severe climate, the bear is mois common B OO K ly black. As he is rather shy than fierce, instead of a X. cavern, he chuses for his lurking place the hollow rotten trunk of an old tree. There he takes his lodgment in winter, as high as he can climb. As he is very fat at the end of autumn, takes no exercise, and is almost always asleep, he must lose but little by perspiration, and consequently must felon want to go abroad in quest of food. But he is forced out of his retreat by setting fire to it; and as soon as he attempts to come down, he falls under a shower of arrows before he can reach the ground. The Indians feed upon his flesh, rub themselves with his grease, and clothe themselves with his skin. Such was the intent of their pursuit after the bear, when a new interest directed their instinct towards the beaver. THIS animal possesses all the friendly dispositions fit for society, without any of the vices or misfortunes attendant upon it. Formed by nature for social life, he is endued with an instinct adapted to it for the preservation and propagation of his species; this animal, whose tender plaintive accents, and whose striking example draw tears of admiration and pity from the humane philosopher, who contemplates his life and manners; this harmless animal, who never hurts any living creature, who is neither carnivorous nor sanguinary, is become the objet of man's most earnest pursuit, and the prey which the savages hunt after with the greatest eagerness and cruelty: a circumstance owing to the unmerciful rapaciousness of the most polished nations of Europe. THE beaver is about three or four feet long, but his weight amounts to forty or sixty pounds, which is the consequence of the largeness of his muscles. His head, which he carries downwards, is like that of a rat, and his back raised in an arch above it like that of a mouse.,E 4 
rc;::js his observed, not tht man has hans given him,' them, but that he had hands given him, and ' their. I hus the beaver has webs at his .;;idi;c f-tn' Ih f'.:'r.s with them. The toes of his fore-feet .re separate, and answer the purpose of hands; th tail, which is flat, oval, and covered with scales he Lies by way of a hod and trowel ; he has four sharp in ciflr teeth, which serve him irltcad of carpenters tools. All these intirun.ents, which are in a manner useless whilst he lives alone, and do not then distinguish him from other aninla!, are of infinite service when he lives in society, and enable him to display a degree of inge nuit superior to all inflinct. without passions, without a desire of doing injury to any, and without craft, when he does not live in society, he scarcely ventures to defend himself. He never bites unless he is catched. But in the social state, in lieu of weapons, he has a variety of contrivances to secure himself without fighting, and to live without committing or suffering any injury. This peaceable and even tame animal is never theseus ind epe stint; he is . slave to none, because all his wants are supposed by hin:.ilf: he enters into society, but wd;i not serve, n'lr dose he pretend to command: and all his Lbburs are Circled by a silent inftint.,iT is the common want of living and multiplying, that calls the cater, heme, and collects them together in summer to build their towns against i.intcr. As early as June or July, they come in from Pit quarters, and assemble to the number of two or three hundred; but always by the pewter le, because these republicans are to live on the water to fcc:;re themselves from invasion. Scmetin.cs they give the reference to fii:l lakes in un, frequented dafr.:., be u e there the waters are always at an equal height. \'ihen they find no pools of slandering
ing water, they make one in the midst of rivers or B O O K firearms; this they do by means of a causeway or dam. X. The mere planning of this contrivance implies such a complication of ideas, as our shortsighted reason would be apt to think above any capacity bhu that of an intelligent being. The first thing to be erect is a pile a hun died feet long, and twelve feet this at the balls, which shelves away to two or three feet in a slope answerable to the depth of the waters. To save work, or to facilitate their labour, they chuse the shallowest part of the river. If they find a large tree by the water-side, they sell it in such a manner, as it may fall across the stream. If it should be larger in circumference than a man's body, they saw it through, or rather gnaw the foot with their four sharp teeth. The branches are soon lopped off by there industrious workmen, who want to fashion it into a beam. A multitude of lesser trees are felled and cut to pieces for the intended pile. Some drag there trees to the river side, others swim over with them to the place where the causeway is to be raised. But the question is, how these animals are to fink them in the water with the assistance only of their teeth, a tail, and feet: and this is the manner in v which they contrive it With their nails they dig a hole in the ground, or at the bottom of the water. With their teeth they reit the large end of the flake against the bank of the river, or against the great beam that lies across. With their feet they raise the stake and fink it with the sharp end downwards into the hole, where it stands upright. With their tails they make mortar, with which they fill up all the vacancies between the takes, which are bound together with twist ed boughs; and thus the pile is ci instructed. The lope of the dam is opposite to the current, the better to break the force of the water by a gradual resistance, and hesitates
B 0 K flakes are driven in obliquely, in proportion to the in-,Xv. . '. , inclination of the plane. The flakes arc planted perpendicularly on the side where the water is to fall; and in order to open a drain which may lessen the aaron of the slope and weight of the causeway, they make two or three openings at the top of it, by which part of the waters of the river may run off. When this work is finished by the whole body of the republic, every member considers of a lodging for him self. Each company builds a hut in the water upon the pile. These huts are from four to ten feet in diameter, upon an oval or round spot. Some are two or three stories high, according to the number of families or house holds. Each hut contains at least two or three, and some ten or fifteen. The walls, whether high or low, are about two feet thick, and are all arched at the top, and perfectly neat and solid both within and without. The outside is varnished with a kind of stucco, impenetrable both to the water and to the external air. Every apartment has two openings, one on the land side to enable them to go out and fetch provisions, the others on that next the stream, to facilitate their escape. At the approach of the enemy, that is, of man the destroyer of cities and commonwealths. The window of the house opens to the water. There they take the fresh air in the day time, plunged into the river up to their middle. In winter it serves to fence them against the ice, which ga tiers to the thickness of two or three feet. The shelf, which is to prevent its stopping up this window, rests upon two stakes that lope in such a manner as may best carry off the water from the house, and leave an outlet to creep out, or to go and firm under the ice. The in side of the house has no other furniture than a flooring,of
of grass, covered with the boughs of the fir-tree. No B 0 0'K filth of any kind is ever seen in these apartments. THE materials for these buildings are always to be found in their neighbourhood. There are alders, poplars, and other trees delighting in watery places, as these re publicans do who build their apartments of them. There citizens have the satisfaction at the same time that they fashion the wood, to nourish themselves with it. In imitation of certain savages of the frozen ocean, they eat the bark. The savages, indeed, do not like it till it is dried, pounded and properly dressed; whereas the beavers chew it and fuck it when it is quite green. They lay up a provision of bark and tender twigs in separate store houses for every hut, proportionable to the number of its inhabitants. Every beaver knows his own storehouse, and not one of them pilfers his neighbour's. Each party lives in its own habitation and is contented with it, though jealous of the property it has acquired in it by its labour. The provisions of the community are collected and expended without dissentions. They are satisfied with that simple food which their labour prepares for them. The only patron they have is that of conjugal affection, the basis and end of which is the reproduction of their species. Towards the end of winter, the mo tiers bring forth their young ones, bred in autumn; and whilst the father ranges all the woods, allured by the sweets of the spring, leaving to his little family the room he took up in his narrow cell, the dam suckles and nurses them, to the number of two or three. Then the takes them out along with her in her excursions, in search of cray and other fish, and green bark, to recruit her own strength and to feed them, till the season of labour re turns,,THIn
BO K THIS republican, industrious, intelligent people, skill-,,ed in architecture, provident and systematical in its plans of police and society, is the beaver, whose gentle and exemplary manners we have been describing. Happy if his covering did not tempt merciless and savage man to destroy his buildings and his race. Frequently when the Americans have demolished the settlements of the beavers, :hose indefatigable animals have had the resolution to build them up again, for several summers successively upon the very same spot. The winter is the time for attacking them. experience warns them of their danger. At the approach of the huntsmen, one of them strikes a hard stroke with his tail upon the water; this signal spreads a general alarm throughout all the huts of the commonwealth, and every one tries to save himself under the ice. But it is very difficult to escape all the snare: that are laid for this harmless tribe. Sometimes the huntsmen lie in wait for them, but as these animals see and hear at a great Distance, they can seldom be hot by the water-side, a;,d they never venture fc far from it as to be caught by surprize. Should the beaver be wounded before he has got under water, he has always time enough to plunge in, and if he dies afterwards, he is lo, because he finks, and never rises again. A more certain way of catching beavers is, by laying traps in the woods, where theY! eat tender bark of young trees. These traps are baited with fresh ships of wood, and as soon as the beavers touch them, an enormous weight falls and crushes their loins. The man, who is concealed near the ]acre, hastens to it, seizes his prey, and having dispatched it, carries it off. OTHER methods are fill more commonly and more successfully practised. The huts are sometimes attacked,,in
in order to drive out the inhabitants, and then wait for B 0 0 K,XV. them at the edges of the holes they have bored in the ice, . where they cannot avoid coming to take in fresh air. The moment they appear, they are knocked on the head. At other times the animal, driven out of his lodgment, is entangled in the nets that are spread all round, by break ing up the ice for some toises round his hut. If they want to catch the whole colony at once, instead of break ing down the sluices to drown the inhabitants, as it might be done in Holland, they open the causeway, to drain off the water from the pool where the beavers live. When they are thus left dry, defenceless, and unable to escape, they may be caught at pleasure and destroyed at any time: but care is always taken to leave a sufficient num ber of males and females to preserve the breed; an at of generosity which in reality proceeds only from avarice. The cruel foresight of man only spares a few in order to have the more to destroy. The beaver, whose plaintive cry seems to implore his clemency and pity, finds in the savage, whom the Europeans have made barbarous, only an implacable enemy, who no longer fights so much to supply his own wants, as to furnish superfluities to another world. IF we compare the manners, the police and the in dusty of the beavers with the wandering life of the fa wages of Canada; we shall be inclined to allow, admit ting for the superiority of man's faculties above those of animals, that the beaver was much further advanced in the arts of social life than his purser, when the Euro means first brought their talents and improvements to North-america. THE beaver, an older inhabitants that world than man, and the quiet possessor of thole regions so well adapted to his species, had meo) oy.d that quiet he had enjoyed for manages
BO OK ages, in the improvement of his faculties. In our he, v mifprf~ e, man has seized upon the most wholesome and fertile regions, and has driven out or subdued all other animals. If the bee and the ant have preserved their laws and government from the jealous and destructive domini on of tyrant man, this has been owing to the smallness of their size. It is thus we see some republics, having neither splendor nor strength, maintain themselves by their very weakness, in the midRl of the vas monarchies of Europe, which must sooner or later swallow them up. But the sociable quadrupeds, banished into uninhabited climates, unfit for their increase, have been unconnected in all places, incapable of uniting into a community, or of improving their natural sagacity x whilst man, who has reduced them to that precarious state, exults in their de gradation, and prides himself in that superior nature and those rational powers, which constitute a perpetual distension between his species and all others. THE brutes, we are told, bring nothing to perfection: their operations, therefore, can only be mechanical, and suppose no principle similar to that which actuates man. Without examining in what particulars perfection con sifts; whether the most civilized being is in reality the most perfect; whether what he acquires in the property of things, he does not lose it in the property of his per son; or, whether all he adds to his enjoyments is not so much subtracted from his duration: we cannot but con fess that the beaver, which in Europe is a wandering, solitary, timorous and stupid animal, was in Canada ac quaint with civil and domestic government; knew how to distinguish the proper seasons for labour and rest, was acquainted with some rules of architecture, and with the curious and learned art of constructing dikes, Yet he had attained to this degree of improvement with,feeble
feeble and imperfect tools. He can hardly see the work B 0 K he does with his tail. His teeth, which answer the, . purposes of a variety of tools, are circular, and confined by the lips. Man, on the contrary, with bands fit for every purpose, bath in this single organ of the touch all the combined powers of strength and dexterity. Is it not to this advantage of organization that he owes .th superiority of his species above all others 3 It is net be. cause his eyes are turned towards heaven, as those of all birds are, that he is the lord of the creation ; it is because he is provided with hands that are supple, pliable, indu serious, formidable, and weapons of defence, and ever ready to aflifl him. His hand is his scepter: its with that he marks his dominion over the earth, by destroying and ravaging the face of the globe. The surest sign of the population of mankind isthedepopulationofotherfpecies. That of beavers gradually decreases and disappears in Canada, since the Europeans have been in request of their skins. THEIR skins vary with the climate, both in colour and kind. In the same district, however, where the colonies of civilized beavers are found, there are Come that are wild and solitary. These animals, who are said to be turned out of the society for their ill behaviour, live in a channel under ground, and have neither lodging nor storehouse. Their coat is dirty, and the hair is worn off of their backs by rubbing against the cave which they dig for their habitation. This flip, which commonly opens into some pond or ditch full of water, sometimes extends above a hundred feet in length, and slopes up gradually to facilitate their escape from inundations when the waters rise. Some of these beavers are so wild as to fly from all communication with their natural element, and to live entirely on land. In this they agree with our otters in Europe. These wild beavers have not such sleek hairs
Bo 0 K as those that live in societies; their furs are answerable xv. to their manners beavers are found in America from the thirtieth to sixtieth degree of north latitude. There are but few to wards the south, but they increase in number and grow darker as we advance towards the north. In the country of the Illinois, they are yellow and straw coloured; high er up, they are of a light chesnut; to the north of Ca nata of a dark chesnut, and tome are even found that are quite black, and there are reckoned the finest. Yet in this climate, the coldest that is inhabited by this species, there are some among the black ones that are quite white, others white speckled with grey, and sometimes with sandy roots on the rump: so much does nature delight in shewing the gradations of warmth and cold, and their various influences, not only on the figure, but on the very cloth ing of animals. The value that men set on their lives, depends upon the colour of their (king. Some they neglect to that degree, that they will not even kill them, but this is uncommon. In what THE fur tr-de was the first the Europeans carried on in in'hitd Canada. It was fire opened by the French colony at n:r.r. er i Tadoufac, a port situated thirty leagues below Quebec. fur trade as carried About the year 1640, the town of Les Trois Rivieres at on. the defiance of twenty-five leagues from the capital and higher up, became a second mart. In process of time all the fur trade centered in Montreal. The skins were brought thither on canoes made of the bark of trees in the month of June. The number of Indians who resorted to that place increased, as the same of the French spread further. The account of the reception they had met with, the fight of the things they had received in exchange for their good,, every thing contributed to increase the con course. Whenever the)' returned with a fresh supply offers
furs they always brought a new nation along with them. B O O K Thus a kind of fair was opened, to which the several XV. tribes of that raft continent retorted. THE English grew jealous of this branch of wealth; and the colony they had founded at New-york, soon found means to divert the tfream of this great circulation. As soon as they had secured a subsistence, by bestowing their firs attention upon agriculture, they began to think of the fur trade, which was at first confined to the country of the Iroquois. The five nations of that name, would not tusser their lands to be traversed in order to give an opportunity of treating with other savage nations, who were at constant enmity with them; nor would they al low those nations to come upon their territories, to share in competition with them the profits of the trade they had opened with the Europeans. But time having extinguish ed, or rather suspended the national hostilities between the Indians, the English spread all over the country, and the savages flocked to them from all quarters. This nation had infinite advantages for obtaining the preference over their rivals the French. Their navigation was easier, and consequently they could afford to undersell them. They were the only manufacturers of the coarse cloths that best suited the savages. The beaver trade was free among them, whereas among the French, it was and ever has been subject to the tyranny of monopoly. It was by this freedom and these indulgences, that they engrossed molt of the trade that rendered Montreal lo famous.,AT this time the French in Canada indulged themselves more freely in a custom, which at first had been confined within narrow bounds. Their inclination for frequent ing the woods, which was that of the first colonists, had been wisely restrained within the limits of the territory belonging to the colony. Permission was, however, granted VOL. IV, F every
B o 0 K every year to twenty-five persons to extend beyond there limits to trade with the Indians. The superiority which New York was acquiring, was the cause of increasing the number of there permissions. They were a kind of patent, which the patentees might make use of either in person or by proxy, and which lasted a year or more. They were sold, and the produce was distributed by the governor of the colony, to the officers, or their widows and children, to hospitals and missionaries, to such as had distinguished themselves by some great anon, or tome useful undertaking; and sometimes even to the creatures of the governor who sold the patents himself. The money which he did not give away, or did not chuse to keep, was put into the public coffers; but he was accountable to none for this administration. THIs custom was attended with fatal consequences. Many of these traders fettled among the Indians, to de fraud their partners whose goods they had disposed of. lr. n more went and fettled among the English, where the profits are greater. Several of our people were lost upon immense lakes, frequently agitated with violent forms; among the cascades, which render navigation so dangerous up the broadest rivers in the whole world; under the weight of the canoes, the provisions, and the bales of goods, which they were forced to carry upon their shoulders at the carrying" p/rrcs, where the rapidity or shallowness of the water obliged them to quit the rivers, and pursue their journey by land. Numbers perished in the snow and on the ice, by hunger or by the ford of the enemy. Those who returned to the colony with a profit of fix or seven hundred per cent. were not always the more useful members, as they gave themselves up to the greatest excesses, and by their example, disgusted others from assiduous labours. Their fortunes disappeared as,quickly
quickly as they had been amassed, like those moving O O K,xv. mountains which a whirlwind raises and destroys at once v on the sandy plains of Africa. Molt of these travelling traders, spent with the excessive fatigues which their ava rice prompted them to undergo, and the licentiousness of a wandering and dilrolutc life, dragged on a premature old age in indigence and infamy. The government took notice of there irregularities, and put the fur trade upon a better footing. FRANCE had for a long time been incessantly employed in evening a number of forts, which were thought necessary for her preservation and aggrandizement in North America Those they had built to the weft and south of the river S. Lawrence, were large and firing, and were in tended to confine the ambition of the English. Those which were conii'ruced on the several lakes in the most important positions, formed a chain which extended north ward to the distance of a thousand leagues from Quebec; but they were only miserable palisades, intended to keep the Indians in awe, and to secure their alliance, and the produce of their chace. There was a ga. ilion in each, more or less numerous, according to the importance of the poet, and of the enemies who threatened it. It was thought proper to intrust the commandant of each of these forts with the exclusive right of buying and selling in the whole district under his dominion. This privilege was purchased ; but as it was always productive of profit, and sometimes of a considerable fortune, it was granted to none but such officers as were most in favour. If any of these had not a flock sufficient for the undertaking, he cou'd easily get same monied men to juin with him. It was pretended that this fyrfem, far fiomr btinig ontr.iy to the benefit of the cri ice, was a means of i.rmn:»ting it, as it obliged the gentlemen of the army to keep up mores 2 constant
B0 0 K constant connections with the natives, to watch their xv.,motions, and to neglect nothing that could secure their friendship. No body foresaw, or chore to foresee, that this could not fail ,i sliding every sentiment, but that of self-interest, and would be a source of perpetual op pression. THIS tyranny, which soon became universal, was fe merely felt at Frontenac, at Niagara, and at Toronto. The farmers of those three forts, abusing their privilege, set so low a value upon tre goods that were brought them, and rated their own so high, that by degrees the Indians would not stop there. They went in vast numbers to Chou ague, on the lake Ontario, where the English dealt with them upon more advantageous terms. These new con reasons were represented as alarming to the court of France, who found means to weaken them, by taking the trade of these three posts into her own hands, and treating the Indians still better than they were treated by the rival nation. THE consequence was, that the king acquired the sole possession of all the refuse of the furs; and got the skins of all the beasts that were killed in summer and autumn; the most ordinary, the thinnest, and croft easily spoiled, were r:f-rvrd for the king. All these damaged furs, un fairly bought, and carelessly heaped up in warehouses, were eaten up by the moths. At the proper season for Pending them to Quebec, they were put into boats, and left to the discretion of soldiers, passengers and watermen-ho, as they had no concern in those goods, did not take the lec-f care to keep them dry. When they came into the hand of the managers of the colony, they were sold for half of the little they were worth. Thus the return were rather less than the sums ads danced by the govern ment for this losing trade.,Bur
BUT though this trade was of no value to the king, B O O K,xv it may yet be doubted whether it brought any profit to the Indians, though gold and hiver were not the dan serous medium of their traffic. They received, indeed, in exchange for their furs; saws, knives, hatchets, kettles fish-hooks, needles, thread, ordinary linen, coarse woollen stuffs, the first tokens or bands of sociability. But we sold them articles likewise that would have proved prejudicial to them even as a gift or a present, such as guns, powder and shot, tobacco, and especially brandy this liquor, the most fatal present the old world ever made to the new, was no sooner known to the savages, than they grew passionately fond of it. It was equally impossible for them to abstain from it, or to use it with moderation. It was soon observed that this liquor disturbed their domestic peace; deprived them rs their judgment; made them furious; that it occal:.:ned hus bands, wives, children, brothers and fillers,'to abuse and quarrel with one another. In vain did some sober French men expostulate with them, and endeavour to shame them out of these excesses. It is you, answered they, who have taught us to drink this liquor; and now we cannot do without it. If you refute to give it us, we will go and get it of the English. It is you have done the mischief and it cannot be repaired the court of France, upon receiving contradictory information with refpca to the disorders occasioned by this pernicious trade, hath alternately prohibited, tole rated, and authorized it, according to the light in which it was represented to the ministry. In the iidfit of these variations, the interest of the merchants was feiduom at a stand. The sale of brandy was at all times nearly the same. Rational men considered it, however, as the principal cause of the diminution of the human race, and,F 3 con
O O K consequently of the Fins of beasts, which became every. day more and more evident this decay of the fur trade was not yet so remarkable as it has been since, when the promotion of the duke of Anjou to the throne of Charles V. spread an alarm over all Europe, and plunged it once more into the horrors of general war. 'I he conflagration extended beyond the seas, and was advancing even to Canada, had not the Iroquois put a stop to it. The English and French had long vied with each other in courting the alliance of that nation. These demonstrations of cfleem or fear, had so elevated their natural pride, that they thought themselves the umpires of the two rival nations, and pretended that their interests were to regulate the conduct of both. As they were inclined to peace at that time, they haughtily declared that they would take up arms against either of the two, which should commence hostilities against each other. This resolution suited the situation of the French colony, which was ill provided for a war, and expected noaffifance from the mother country. New York, on the contrary, whose forces already considerable, were daily increasing, wished to prevail upon the Iroquois to join with them. Their insinuations, presents, and ne negotiations were ineffectual till 17c9. At that period they succeeded in seducing the five nations; and their troops, which till then had remained inactive, marched out sup ported by a vast number of Indian warriors. THE army was proud. advancing towards the center of Canada with the greatest probability of conquering, when one of the chiefs of the Iroquois, who had never approved of their proceedings, simply said to his people, what will before of us, if we should succeed in driving away the French ? These few words, uttered with a mysterious and anxious look, immediately recalled to the minds,of
of all the people their former system, which was to keep o O K the balance even between the two foreign nations, in, x order to secure their own independence. They instantly resolved to forsake a plan they had been too precipitately engaged in, contrary to the public interest; but as they thought it would be shameful openly to quit their associates they imagined that secret treachery might be sub fitted to open defection. The lawless savages, the virtuous Spartans, the religious Hebrews, the sagacious and warlike Greeks and Romans, all people, whether civilized or not, have always made what is called the right of nations consist either in craft or violence. THE army had halted on the banks of a little river to wait for the artillery and ammunition. The Iroquois, who spent their leisure hours in hunting, contrived to strip all the beasts they caught, and throw their skins into the river, a little above the camp. The waters were soon indeed. The English, who suffered no such per fide, continued drinking of the poisoned stream. Such numbers immediately died, that they were forced to desisted still more imminent danger threatened the French colony. A numerous fleet destined against Quebec, en tered the river St. Lawrence the following year, with the greatest probability of success, if it could but reach the place of its destination. But the rashness of the admiral, joined to the violence of the elementS, occasioned its de strain in the river. Thus was Canada at once deli vexed from its anxieties both by sea and land, and had the glory of maintaining itself without succours and without loss, against the strength and policy of the Eng-France is lish. corrp~llcd,to cede France, however, which for forty years had alone part of the withstood the combined efforts of all Europe, vanquished hat were or repulsed all the united nations, accomplished that with united to,4 herCanada.
B O 0 K her own fubjcas, under Lewis XIV, which Charles V. XY.,had not been able to effect with the innumerable troops of his several kingdoms; France which had, at that time, as many great men as would have immortalized twenty reins, and in the course of one reign had done as many great actions as might have aggrandized twenty nations; France was then upon the point of crowning all these glorious successes by placing a branch of the house of bourbon on the throne of Spain. She had then fewer enemies and a greater number of allies than she ever had in the most brilliant periods of her prosperity. Ever; thing concurred :o promis her an easy success, a speedy and decisive superiorities was not fortune but nature itself that changed her destiny. Haughty and vigorous under a king in all the graces and strength of youth, after having risen with him through the several degrees of glory and gran dear, she rank with him through all the periods of decay incident to human nature. The split of bigotry, which had been introduced into the court by an ambitious woman determined the choice of ministers, generals, and administrators; and this choice was always blind and un fortune te. Kin s, who like other n.en have recourse to heaven, when they are ready to quit the earth, seem in their od age to seek for a new set of flatterers, who sooth them with hopes, at the time when all realities are disappearing. Then it is that hp ocrifr, ever ready to I:-e advantage of the f.rit and second childhood of life, awakens in the foul the ideas that had been early implanted in it; and under pretence o1 guiding the man to the only happiness that remains for him, assumes an absolute empire oi er his will. But as this last age, as well as the r.rt, is a Late of weakness, a continual fluctuation must, therefore, Prevail in the government. Cabals grow,morg
more violent and more powerful than ever; the expect 0O K,XV. tions of intriguing men are railed; and merit is ifs re warded; superior talents are afraid to make themselves known ; sollicitations of every kind press forward; places fall by chance upon men all unequally unfit: to fill them, and yet, presumptuous enough to think they deferred them; men who rate destination they entertain of themselves by the contempt they have of others. The nati. n then loses its strength, with its confidence, and eery thing goes on as it is begun without design, vigour or un understanding. To raise a country from a flare of barb-a fin, to main tain it in the height of its glory, and to check the rapidity of its decline, are three things very difficult to accomplish but the las is certainly the mod arduous of them all. A nation rites out of barbarism by sudden efforts exerted at intervals; it supports itself at the summit of its prosperity by the powers it has acquired; it declines by an universal languor, which has been prepared by al most imperceptible gradations. E3abarous nations require a long continued reign ; but reigns of a snort duration are best adapted to prosperous ones. But the tedious imbecility of a declining monarch lays the foundation of evils for his successor, which it is almost impossible to re mede. SUCH was the latter part of the reign of Lewis XIV. After a series of defeats and mortifications, he was fill happy that he could purchase pease by sacrifice which denoted his humiliation. But he feet d to .ifhl to con real these sacrifices from his people, by making them chiefly beyond lea. It is easy to judge how much his pride must have suffered, in giving up to the English tIudfon's bay, Newfoundland, and Acadia, three possessions
B 0 0 K sessions which, together with Canada, formed that im x¥.,mense trac of country known by the glorious name of New France. The next book will shew us how this power, accustomed to conqueR, endeavoured to repair her lofles.,E::. CF T;ii FIFTZENiTH BOOK.,13B00 K
BOOK XVL, xvii B O O K XVI. Account of the French Settlements in lrtjh-Amcri.a continued. T H E war, carried on for the Spanifl succession, had raised a ferment in the four quarters of the world, which have been disturbed by the commotions of Europe for there two centuries past. Every throne vas shaken in contending for one, which under the dominion of Charles V. had struck terror into them all. One house, ruling over five or fix states, had raised the Spanish nation to a pitch of greatness which could not fail of being highly flattering to her. A house whose power was still superior, from having its dominions more connected toge ther, was ambitious of giving the law to that haughty na tion. The names of Aufiria and Bourbon, which had been rivals for two hundred years, were now exerting their last efforts to acquire a superiority, which should no longer be precarious or doubtful between them. The matter of contention was, which of the two should have the greatest number of crowns to boast the possession of. Europe, divided between the claims of the two houses, which were not altogether groundless, was inclined tallow
B O O K allow them to extend their branches, but not to permit X. L ~,t that several fceptersihould be united to one house, as had formerly been the case. All took up arms to disperse or divide a vast inheritance and reformed to pull it to pieces, rather than sussex it to be attached to a power, which, with this additional wveiht of strength, must infallibly destroy the balance of all the rest. The war was a long one, because it was supported on all sides by numerous forces and great abilities, by warlike people and fii!iful generals;; it desolated the countries it should have succoured and even ruined the nations that had no concern in it. Victory should have given the law, but this was so wavering, that it served but to kindle the flames of discord. The same troops that were successful in one country, were foiled in another. The people who tri rumpled on the tea, were defeated on the land. The news of the loss of a fleet and the gaining of a battle arrived at the same time. Success fluctuated from one camp to another, but to complete their mutual destruction. At last, when the blood and treasure of the several fates were exhausted, and after a furies of calamities and expences that had lasted near twelve years, the nations, who had profited by their misfortunes, and were weakened by their struggles, were jilli:itous of repairing their losses. They endeavour-red to find in the new world the means of regulating and re-establishing the old. Prince first turned her views towards North-america, to which the Th Fresco seemed invited by the similarity of soil and climate, and repair h: r the island of Cape-ireton became immediately the objet opes ;do of her-r:cn:ion. fOrt f'V She English considered this possession as an equiva-,;on; and lent for all that the French had lost by the treaty of i' Utrecht, and not being thoroughly reconciled with them, able r:i!h- strongly opposed their being allowed to people and fortify its tire.,it.
it. They saw no other method of excluding them from B O K the cod-fishery, and making the entrance into Canada, . difficult for their ships. The moderation of queen Anne, or, perhaps, the corruption of her ministers, prevented France from being exposed to this fresh mortification: and she was authorized to make what alterations she might think proper at Cape-Breton.,THIS island is situated at the entrance of the gulph of St. Lawrence, between the 45th and 47th degrees of north latitude. Newfoundland lies to the east, on the same gulph, and is only 15 or x6 leagues distant from it; and to the waves, Acadia is only separated from the island by a freight, not more than 3 or 4 leagues over. Thus situated between the territories ceded to her ene mies, the threatened their possessions, while the protected those of France. The island measures about 36 leagues in length, and 22 in its greatest breadth. It is beset on all fides with little sharp-pointed rocks, separated from each other by the waves, above which some of their tops are visible. All its harbours open to the east, and as one turns towards the south. On the other parts of the coast there are but a few anchoring places for small cells, in creeks, or between sets. Except in the hilly parts, the surface of the country has but little firmness, being every where covered with a light moss and with water. The dampness of the ground exhales itself in fogs, without rendering the air unwholesome. In other respects, the climate is very cold, which is owing either to the prodigious quantity of lakes, coveting above half the island, and which remain for a long while frozen, or to the number of forests, that rentier it inacccflfbic to the rays of the fun; the effect of which is :grady ci winifred by perpetual clouds.,TlHOUGLC
B O O K THOUGH some fishermen had long since resorted to', Cape Breton every summer, yet not above twenty or thir-sty had ever fixed there. The French who took possession of it in August 1713, were properly the first inhabitants. They changed its name into that of Isle Royale, and pitched upon Fort Dauphin for their principal settlement. This harbour was two leagues in circumference. The ships which came to the very edge, were sheltered from winds. Forests affording oak sufficient to build and for tiny a large city, were near at hand. The ground appeared less barren than in other parts, and the fishery was more plentiful. This harbour might have been made impregnable at a trifling expence, but the difficulty of getting at it, a circumstance that had at first made a stronger im pression than the advantages resulting from it, occasioned it to be abandoned even after great labour had been be flowed upon it. They then turned their views to Louis bourg, the access of which was easier, and convenience was thus preferred to security. THE harbour of Louisburg, situated on the eastern coast of the island, is at left a league in depth, and above a quarter of a league across in the narrowest part. Its bottom is good, the soundings are usually from fix to ten fathom, and it is easy to tack about in it either to get in or out even in bad weather. It incloses a small gulph very commodious for resitting ships of all sizes, which may even winter there, with proper precautions. The only inconvenience attending this excellent harbour is, that it is frozen up from November till May, and frequently it is not free till June. The entrance, which is naturally narrow, is further guarded by Goat island. The can;icn of which playing upon a level with the fur face of the water, would fink ships of any size, that Should attempt to force the passage. The batteries, one,of
of thirty-fix, the other of twelve twenty-four pounders, B 0 0 K,XVt ereaed on the two opposite shores, would support and cross this formidable fire. THE town was built on an oblong flip of land that ad dances into the sea, and is about half a league in circuit; the streets are broad and regular. Almost all the houses are made of wood. Those that are built of stone, have been constructed at the expence of the government, and are destined for the reception of the troops. A number of wharfs have been ereaed, that jet out a considerable way into the harbour, and are extremely convenient to load and unload the ships. ' IT was only in 1720 that the fortification of Louifbourg was begun. This undertaking was executed upon very good plans, with all the works that can make a place for amicable. A space of about a hundred toises only, was left without ramparts on the side next the sea, that being thought sufficiently defended by its situation. It was flop pet up merely by a kind of dam. The sea was so shallow in that place, that it made a kind of narrow canal, and so surrounded with rocks that it was inaccessible to any shipping whatever. The side bastions completed the fe purity of that spot from any descent the necessity there was of bringing stone from Eu rope, and many other materials necessary for these great works, sometimes retarded their progress, but never put an end to them. More than thirty millions (b) were ex pended upon them. This was not thought too great a a sum for the support of the fisheries, for securing the communication between France and Canada, and for opening a shelter in time of war to ships coming from the southern islands. Nature and found policy required that (D) A,l,o500/,
B 0 0 K that the riches of the south should be proceed by the XVI.,strength of the north. IN the year 1714, some fishermen, who till then had lived in Newfoundland, came and fettled in this island. It was expected they would be followed by the Acadians, who by the treaty were at liberty to remove with all their moveables, and even to dispose of their estates; but these hopes were disappointed. The Acadians chose rather to retain their possessions under the dominion of England, than to give them up for any precarious advantage they might derive from their attachment to France. Their place was supplied by some miserable adventurers from Eu rope, who came over from time to time to Cape Breton, and the population of the colony gradually increased to the number of four thousand fouls. they were fettled at Louifbourg, Fort Dauphin, Port Toulouse, Erica, and on all the coasts where they found a proper beach for drying the cod.,THE inhabitants never applied themselves to agriculture the soil being unfit for it. They have often at tempted to low corn, but it seldom came to maturity; and when it did thule so far as to be worth reaping, it had so much degenerated, that it could not sei ve for feed for the next harcft. They have not persisted in sowing any thing but a few pot-herbs, that are tolerably well tasted, but must be renewed every year from abroad. The poorness and scarcity of failures has likewise prevented the increase of cattle. In a word, the soil of Cape Breton seemed to invite none but fishermen and soldiers. THOUGH the island was covered with forests before it was inhabited, its wood has scarce ever been an object of trade. Not but that a great quantity of soft wood was found there that was fit for firing, and some that,might
might be used for timber; but the oak has always been B 0 Took very farce there, and the deal never yielded much resin. XV THE fur trade was but an insignificant objet. The island afforded only a few lynxes, elks, musk rats, wild cats, bears, otters, and foxes both of a red and silver grey colour. Some of their skins were procured from a colony of Hickman Indians who had fettled on the island with the French, and never could raise more than sixty men able to bear arms. The rest came from St. John's, or the neighbouring contingents would have been possible to draw greater advantages from the coal mines which abound on the island. They lie in a horizontal direction, and are never above fix or eight feet below the surface, so that they can be worked without digging deep, or draining off the waters. Though there had been a prodigious demand for it from New England, from the year 1745 to 174Q, these mines would, probably, have been forsaken, had not the ships sent out to the French islands wanted ballast. A fire which could never be extinguished, has raged in one of these mines. It burns frill, and it may be supposed that it will one day occasion some extraordinary explosion. If the carelessness of one man has been capable by a single spark of kindling a fire, which for these several years devours the bowels of the earth, how little exertion does nature require to stir up a volcano, able to consume a whole country with its inhabitants !,TIHE whole activity of the colony has constantly been exerted in the cod fishery. The less wealthy inhabitants employed yearly two hundred boats in this fishery, and the richest fifty or sixty vessels from thirty to fifty tons burden. The small craft always kept within four or five leagues of the coals, and returned at night to bring their fish home, which. being immediately cured, had always VOL. IV. G the
B O O K the utmost degree of perfection it was capable of. The XVI.,.larger smacks went to fits further out, kept their cargo for several days, and as the sith was apt to take too much salt, it was not fa much valued. But this inconvenience was balanced by the advantage of following their prey, when the want of food drove it from the island i and by the facility of carrying the produce of their labours to the southern islands in autumn, or even to France.,BESIDEs the fishermen settled on the island, others came every year from France to dry their fish, either in the habitations, where they agreed with the owners, or upon tie be-ch, which was always reserved for their use.,THE n.o;her country regularly sent them ships loaded with proviSions, liquors, wearing apparel, household goods, and all things necessary for the inhabitants of the colony. The larEcgi of these ships, confining themselves to trade, went back to Europe as soon as they had bartered their lading for cod. Those from fifty to a hundred tons bur den, after having landed their little cargo. went a filling themselves, and did not return home till the season was over. THE people of Cape Breton did not send all their fish to Europe. They sent part of it to the French Southern islands, on board twenty or twenty-fine ships, from seven tv to a hundred and forty tons burden. Besides the fill, which made half their cargo, they exported to the other colonies, timber, planks, thin boards of oak, faltfalmon and mackerel, train oil, and sea coal. All there were paid fer in sugar and coffee, but chiefly in rum and me lasses. THE island could not consume all there commodities. Canada took off hut a small part of their overplus; it was mostly bought by the people of New England, who gave them in exchange fruits, vegetables, wood, quicksand
and cattle. This bartering was allowed ; but besides this, B 0 O K,XVI. they smuggled flour, and a considerable quantity of salt fish. NorwrITHST'ANDoNG this circulation, which was all carried on at Louifbourg, most of the colonists were in a wretched state of poverty. This was owing to the de sentence to which their indigence had fulje&ed them on their first arrival. Unable as they were to procure the ne cefl:ary implements for the fishery, they had borrowed omen at an cxccflive interest. Even those who were not reduced to this necessity, were soon obliged to submit to the hard terms of borrowing. The dearness of salt and provisions, together with the fishings that turned out ill, drove them to it in a short time, and they sank under the distress of paying twenty or five and twenty per cent. a year for every thing they borrowed. Such is one of the several hardships that attend an inequality of nations in life, that a man who was not born to a fortune, can hardly ever acquire one but by violence or fraud, the means by which the most opulent families have amassed their riches. Even commerce can but barely supply their place by industry and assiduous labour. But all the French colonies of New France were not doomed to languish in this deplorable slate. THE island of St. John, more favourably situated, has Settlement been kinder to its inhabitants. It lies further up the gulph of eh french in of St. Lawrence, is twenty-two leagues long, and not the ilnrid much above a league broad in the widest part. It bends of St. Jhn. in the form of a crescent, both ends terminating in a Sharp point. Though the property of this island had never been disputed with France, yet that crown appeared to despise it till the peace of Utrecht. The loss of Acadia and newfoundland made them turn their views to this fiall,G z remaining
OO K remaining spot, and the government began to inquire what use could be made of it. IT appeared that the winters were long, the cold ex tree with abundance of snow, and prodigious quantities of innes; but that a healthy coast, an excellent sea-port, and commodious harbours, made amends for these defeat. The country was flat, and enriched with fine pastures, watered by an infinite number of rivulets and springs; the soil exceedingly diversified, and fit for the culture of every kind of grain: there was plenty of game, and multitudes of wild beats ; amazing shoals of sith of all forts; and a greater number of savage inhabitants than were found on any of the other islands. This circumstance alone was a proof how much it was superior to the reft the report of this in France, gave rise to a company in 1719, set on foot with the double view of clearing this fertile island, and of establishing a great cod fiery there Unfortunately, interest which had brought the adventurers together, divided them again, before ever they had begun putting their design in execution. St. John was again forgotten, When the Acadians began to remove to that island in 1749. In process of time they increased to the number of 3154. As they were for the most part hus bondmen, and particularly accustomed to the breeding o cattle, the government thought proper to fix them to this kind of business; and the cod fishery was only allowed to be carried on, by those who fettled at Arcadia, and at St. Peter.,PROHIBITION's and monopolies, whilst they are a check upon industry, are equally detrimental to the labours they permit, and to those they prohibit. Though the island of St. John does not afford a sufficient extent of sea there fit for drying the vast quantities of cod that come in shoal,to
to the coasts, and though the fish is too large to be easily B o O K dried, yet it was incumbent upon a power whose fisheries are not sufficient for the consumption of its own fubjeas, to encourage this kind of employment. If there were too few drying places for the quantity that could be caught, they could easily prepare what they call green cod, which alone would have made an excellent branch of com mere. BY confining the settlers of St. John to agriculture, they were deprived of all resource in those unlucky years too common on the island, when the crops are devoured by the field mice and grasshoppers. They made no ad vantage of the exchanges which the mother country could and ought to have made with her colony. Lalfly, in wanting to favour agriculture, they obstructed its pro griefs, by laying the inhabitants under an impossibility of procuring the necessary articles for extending it. ONLY one small vessel or two came annually to the island from Europe, and landed at port La Joie, where they were supplied with all they wanted from Louifbourg, and paid for it in wheat, barley, oats, pulse, black cattle and keep. A party of fifty men served rather as a guard to their police, than a defence to them. Their command ing officer was dependent on Cape Breton, which was itself under the controul of the governor of Canada. The command of this last officer extended to a great distance, over a wait continent, the richest part of which was Louisiana. THIS province, which the Spaniards formerly com Discovery pretended under the name of Florida, was not discovered oftheMW-,fiippi by by the French till the year 1673. They were told by the the French. savages, that to the weft of Canada, there was a great river, which flowed neither to the north nor to the east, and they concluded that it mull therefore empty itfelfinto,G 3 the
B 0 0 K the gulph of Mexico, if its course were southward, or XVI.,into the south sea, if it were westward. The communi cation with these two seas was of such importance, ;is to deceive some enquiry. This undertaking was committed to Joliet, an inhabitant of lQebec, a man of sense and experience, and to thejefuit Marquette, whose virtues were respected by all the nations inhabiting that con tient. 'These two men, whose intentions were equally ho nest, alw ivs lived 'n the most friendly intimacy with each other. They went both together from the lake Michigan, entered the river of the Foxes, which empties into that ]ake, and went up almost to the-head of the river, not withstanding the currents which render that navigation difficult. After ime days march, they again embarked on the river Ouiscc!ting, and keeping always westward, they came to the Miflippi, and failed down that river as far as the Akar.fas, about the 33d degree of latitude. Their zeal would have carried them further, but they were in w rt of provisions. It would have been im prudent to haste ventured t:(o far, with only three or four men, in an uinki; .,n country; and besides, they were convinced [hat this river ran into the gulph of Mexico, and they returned therefore to Canada. When they en tered the ri\ei of :.-c Illinois. they found these people pretty numerous, and inclined to a friendly intercourse with our nation. Without concealing or exaggerating any pa-regular, they communicated to the chief man of the col, ny all the information they had got.,A'ION\GST the inhabitants of New France at that time, was a Norman, named La Salle, who was impelled both by the dc;irc of making a great fortune, and of establish ing a brilliant reputation. This man had spent his young cr years amc:ng the Jesuits, where he had contracted that,aitlvity
activity, that enthusiasm, that resolute spirit, which those B 0 0 K fathers so well know how to instil into their disciples, . when they meet with young men of quick parts, with whom they are fond of recruiting their order. La Salle, ready to seize all opportunities of signalizing himself, wishing even to create them, a dating and enterprising man, saw that the new governor of Canada did not think of improving the discover I-it had been made. He embarked for Europe, went to the court of Versailles, was attended to, a!moit even with admiration, at a time when both the prince and the people were inspired with a passion for great actions. He came back loaded with favours, and with orders to complete what had been so fortunately begun. However, the better to insure success, he took care not to precipitate matters The distance was considerable from the furthest French settlements in Canada to the banks of the river they were going to reconnoitre. Prudence required that they should secure that trap. He began, therefore, by erecting several polls, which took up more time than he imagined, because the works were often interrupted by unforeseen incidents. V, hen time and caution had brought all things to the p'iint lie wished, he failed down the Miflifippi in 1682, and found that it ran into the gulph of Mexico, as had been before con jeilured. THIS was a great point gained. La Salle, who well knew what remained to be dons, hastened back to Quebec and went over to France, to propose the discovery of the Miflifippi by fca, and the establishment of a co tony, which could not fail of being a very important one. His scheme gained credit, and he obtained four ships of different rates, with about 150 men. He miffed the spot by steering too far westward, and on the loth of January 4 1685,
B O O K 1685, found himself in the bay of St. Bernard, distant a,. hundred leagues from the Miiafippi. This error might have been rectified; but La Salle, who was of a haughty and unsociable temper, had quarrelled with the command er of his little fleet, and as he did not chuse to lay him self under that obligation to him, he dismissed hin,; and prepossessed with a notion that the riser he ha, entered could be nothing more than an arm of the great one which he was commissioned to reconnoitre, he imagined he could complete the undertaking by himself. But being soon undeceived, he lost fight of his mission. It is said that instead of looking for guides among the savages, who would have directed him to his destination, he chose to go nearer the Spaniards, and inform himself of the famous mines of St. Barbe. He was wholly taken up with this absurd project, when he was murdered by some of his companions, who could no longer put up with his ill treatment, obstinacy, and insufferable pride. THE death of the leader dispersed the associates. The villains who had murdered him, sell by each other's hand. Several incorporated with the natives. Many perished by hunger and fatigue. The Spaniards of New Mexico, alarmed at the report of this undertaking, had crossed the country, and meeting with these fugitives, took some of them-nd feat them to work in the mines, where they ended their days. Those who had shut themselves up in the little fort they had erected, fall into the hands of the savages. Only seven men ceased, who embarked on the Miifippi, which they had at lost disco :red by land, and came to Canada. These misfortunes blotted out the remembrance of Louisiana in France.,THE attention of the ministry was again rouzed in 1697, by d'Ybervilie, a gentleman of Canada, who had distinguished himself by some exceeding bold and fortunate,ilrokes
strokes at Hudson's bay, in Acadia and Newfoundland. B 0 0 K He was sent out from Rochford with two ships, and he XI. entered the Mississippi on the ad of July 1699. He failed up the river high enough to be convinced by his own in season of the beauty and fertility of its banks. He con tented himself, however, with erecting a linall fort, which did not long continue, and proceeded to another spot to fettle his little colony, chiefly confiding of Canadians. Between the mouth of the Mississippi and Pensacola, The,French set a settlement newly erect by the Spaniards in Florida, l in the is a coast of about forty leagues in extent. It is every countryseat is wa where so flat, that trading ships cannot come within four tered by leagues of the shore, or even the lightest brigs within the Mill two leagues. The soil, which is entirely sandy, is equally call it unfit for culture and the breeding of cattle. Nothing Louisiana. grows there but a few scattered cedars and fir trees. The climate is so exceedingly hot, when the rays of the fun have fallen upon these sands, that in some seasons the heat would be intolerable, were it not for a light breeze, which springs up regularly at nine or ten in the morning, and never falls but in the evening. In this great space, there is a place called Biloxi, from the name of a savage nation, that formerly made some flay there. This si tuition, the most barren and most inconvenient upon the whole coast, was made choice of, to fix the few men d'Yberville had brought thither, and who had been al lured by the most sanguine expectations. Two years after, a fresh colony arrived, and was placed thirteen leagues to the cast of Biloxi, not far from Pensacola. The banks of the Mobile, which is no where navigable but for boats, though rather a long river, were judged to be worth inhabiting. The poorness of the grounds, was not thought a sufficient objection. It was determined that the connections they would form with,the
B0 0 K the Spaniards and nei'-bouriiig Indians, would compend XVI.,fate all these disadvantages. An island situated opposite to the Mobile, at a distance of four leagues, offered a harbour, which might be considered as the fca port of the new colony. It was named the lyle of Dauphin. It was perre'tl-. convenient for unloading the French goods, which iii .:nn they had been ,obliged to send ashore in boats. This island, tho-gh a barren one, was soon peopled and became the chief settlement of tie coclny ; till the winds which had formed it with sands, heaped them up to such a degree il the year 1717, as to deprive it of the only advantage that had given it some kind of reputation IT could not reasonably be expected that a colony fixed upon such a territory should make any progress. The death of Yberville, who perished gloriously before the Havana in 1702, at sea in the service of his country, put an end to the small remaining hopes of the colonists. France was so deeply engaged in an unhappy war, that no assistance could be expected from that quarter. They all thought themselves totally forsaken; and those who entertained some hopes of finding a settlement elsewhere, hastened to go in quest of it. The few whom necessity compelled to flay behind, subsisted upon vegetables, or lived by excursions amongst the Indians. The colony was reduced to twenty-eight families each completely mi cradle, when Croft petitioned for and obtained the ex elusive trade of Louisiana in 1712. Cross was one of those men, who was born for great undertakings, he pofcfffzd that superiority of talents and sentiments which enabled him to undertake the greatest aeion', and condescend to the least for the service of the fate, and witted to derive all his same from the glory of his country. The fuit of Louisiana was not the obcitt of,this
this active genius. He could not be ignorant of its barb o o K,XVI. rennes nor did it ever appear that he had any thoughts of. ,. attempting to improve it. His intention was to open communications both by land and sea with old and new Mexico, to pour in all kinds of merchandise into thole parts, and to draw from thence a vast quantity of piastres. The concession he had asked for, appeared to him to be the-natural and necessary mart for his vail operations ; and all the steps taken by his agents were regulated upon this noble plan. But being undeceived by several unsuccessful attempts, he relinquished his scheme, and in r717, was glad to resign his privilege to a company whose success astonished the whole world. Turns company was set on foot by Law, that celebrated Louisiana Scotchman, of whom no settled judgment could be formed becomes very fa at the time he appeared, but whose name now lands be mous in,the time of tween the crowd of mere adventuress and the short lift ofreism great men. This daring genius had made it his business lyftcm. from his infancy to observe attentively the several powers of Europe, to examine their several springs, and to cal curate the strength of each. He was singularly struck with the confusion into which the ambition of Lewis XIV. had thrown the kingdom of France. He thought the unravelling of this chaos was a task worthy of him, and flattered himself he could accomplish it. The very greatness of his plan could not tail of recommending it to the regent, who held the reins of government, since the demise of the monarch has reformed peace to Europe. The scheme was, by speedily paying off the national debt, to clear the public revenue of the enormous interests which absorbed it. The introduction of paper credit could alone effect this revolution, which the exigencies of the times seemed absolutely to require. The pub hic creditors came into this novelty the more readily, as,they
B O O K they knew they might at any time change there notes for XVL,shares in the company. The company, on the other hand, could not fail of means to answer so many engage ments; since, independent of the produce of the taxes, which was to center in their hands, as being a company of finance, they had a new channel as a commercial company, through which immense riches were expected to come in. SINCE the Spaniard, Ferdinand de Toto, had perished on the banks of the Mississippi, about the year 1538, an opinion had prevailed that those regions contained im mense treasures. It was a matter of doubt where these riches were situated ; but fill the celebrated mines of St. Barbe were talked of with rapture. If they seemed for a time forgotten, it was only to make them again be attend ed to with the greater eagerness. Law availed himself of this credulity, and took care to feed and increase it by mysterious reports. It was rumoured as a secret that these and many other mines had at last been found out, but that they were far richer than same had represented them. To give the greater weight to this falsehood which had already gained too much credit, a number of workmen were lent over to work these supposed valuable mines with troops to support them. IT is inconceivable what a sudden impression this stratagem made upon a nation naturally fond of novelty. All men were possessed with an inordinate desire of hav ing shares in the new company. Every speculation, scheme and expectation ;was directed to this channel. The Mississippi became the grand object and the ultimate end of all pursuits. The adventurers were not content with a bare association with the company which had ob: gained the disposal of that fine country. They were ap plied to from all quarters for large tracts of land foreland
which, it was given out, were to yield in aB 0 0 K few years the centuple of what should be laid out upon them. Whatever was the motive, whether interest or conviction, or flattery, those who were accounted the most sensible men in the nation, the richest and the most esteemed, were the most forward in forming these fettle ments. Others were drawn in by their example, and those whose fortunes would not permit them to become proprietors, made interest to have the management of the plantations, or, at leaf, to work in them. DURING the heat of this ferment, all persons who offered themselves, whether natives or foreigners, were promiscuously crowded into ships without any care. They were landed upon the sands of the Biloxi; where they perished by thousands, with want and vexation. They might have been carried up the Miflifippi, and landed im mediately upon the country they were to clear; but it never once occurred to the managers of the enterprize, to send proper boats for that purpose. Even after they had found that the [hips coming from Europe could fail up the river, the head quarters still continued to be the grave of those sad and numerous victims that had fallen a sacrifice to a political imposture. The head quarters were not removed to New Orleans till five years after, that is, till hardly any were left of those unfortunate people who had been weak enough to quit their native country upon such uncertain prospects. BUT at this late period, the charm was dissolved, and the mines were vanished Nothing remained but the con fusion of having been milled by chimerical notions. Louisiana shred the fate of those extraordinary men who have been too highly extolled, and are afterwards punish ed for this unmerited same, by debating them below their real worth, This inchanted country was now held in,exc-
B 0 0 Execration. Its very name became a reproach. The - f .mississippi was the terror of free men. No recruits whereto be found to send thither, but such as were taken from prisons and hours of ill same. It became the receptacle of the lowest and most profligate persons in the kingdom. WHAT could be expected from an edifice made up of such materia's ? Vicious men will neither people a country nor work, nor fix themselves. Many of the wretch es who had been transported into the-e savage climates went and exhibited the loathsome fpealcle of their wretchedness, in the English or Spanish settlements. Others perished speedily by the poison they were tainted with before they left Europe. he greater number wan tered miserably about the woods, till hunger and weariness put an end to their existence. Nothing was yet be gun in the colony, though twenty-five millions (c) of livres had been sunk there. The managers of the com any that advanced there enormous sums, ridiculously pretended that in the capital of France they could lay the plan of the undertakings that were fit for America. Paris, which is not even acquainted with its own provinces which it despises and drains, wanted to submit every thing to the operations of these hasty and frivolous calculator From the company's office, they pretended to regulate and circe every inhabitant of Louisiana, and to impose such clogs and fetters as should all turn out to the advantage of the monopoly. Had they granted some tri fling encouragements to reputable settlers, who might have been allured into the colony, by securing to them that li betty which every man covets, that property which every man has a right to expect from his own labour, and that protection which is due from every society to its members; such encouragements, given to proprietors directed by,local (C) i;;,:;:^.
local circumstances, and enlightened by self-interest, B O O K would have been productive of far greater and more last . . ing effect, more extensive, solid and profitable settlements than any the company could ever make with all their treasures, dispensed and managed by agents who could neither have all the knowledge requisite to conduct so many various operations, nor even be actuated by any immediate interest in the success. YET the ministry thought it conducive to the welfare of the late, to leave the concerns of Louisiana in the hands of the company; which was under a necessity of exerting its utmoti interest to obtain leave to alienate that part of its privilege. It was even obliged to purchase this favour in 1731, by paying down the sum of 1,45e,coo livres:(d) for there are some states where the right of being ruined, of extricating one's felt from destruction, and of enriching one's self, are equally purchased ; be cause good or evil, whether public or private, may prove an objca of finance. But after all, what was to become of this region, so much extolled, fomuch vilified, when it came to be in reality a national possession ? I.oUISIANA is a vast country, bounded to the south by extent" the sea; to the east by Carolina; to the weft by Newfert;ity, Mexico; to the north by that part of Canada whose un and original inhia- known lands are supposed to extend as far as Hudfon'shiallts us bay. It is impossible to ascertain the eat length of it; Louisiana. but it is thought to be about two hundred leagues broad, between the English and Spanish settlements. IN so extensive a country, the climate cannot be the same throughout. It was no where found to be such as was expected from its latitude. Lower Louisiana, though in the same degree as the coast of Barry is no hotter than the south of France; and thule palits of it that are situated (d) 63;i,.37, 10s.
B O o K situated in the 35th and 36th degrees, are no warmer ,. I than the northern provinces of the mother country. This,phoenomenon, which seems so extraordinary to a common observer, may be accounted for by a naturalist, from the thick forests which prevent the rays of the fun from heat ing the ground ; the numberless rivers which keep it con. shanty damp; and the winds which blow from the north over a vast extent of land. THE sky is seldom clouded; the fun, which gives life to every thing, lining almost every day. It rains very little, and never except in heavy showers; but plentiful dews supply the place of rain with advantage the air in general is pure, but much more so in upper than in lower Louisiana. In this happy climate, the wo men are blessed with a pleating figure, and the men ar less subjea to disorders in the vigour of life, and hav fewer infirmities in old age than the Europeans. BEFORE the nature of the soil had been tried, it nul have been imagined to be excellent. It abounded wit wild fruits, very pheasant to the table. It supplied a great number of birds and wild beasts with copious subsistence The meadows, formed by nature alone, were covered with roebuck and bisons. Perhaps, there are no trees up on the earth to be compared with those of Louisiana ft height, variety and thickness. If it afforded no wood for dying, it is because none will grow anywhere excel between the tropics. Since the soil has been tried in fe vernal difirias, it has been found to be fit for all kinds culture the head of that famous river which divides this in mense country from north to south almost in two equ parts, has never yet been discovered. The boldest tr sellers have not gone higher up than about a hundr leagues above the fall of St. Anthony, which interrupts
its course by a pretty high cascade, about the 46th de B 0 0 K,XVI. gree of latitude. From thence to the sea, that is, for . the space of about 700 leagues, the navigation is no where interrupted. The Miflifippi flows unobstructed into the ocean, after being enlarged by the river of the Illinois, the Missouri, the Wabash, and a great number of lesser rivers. Every thing concurs to shew that this river has enlarged its bed by near a hundred leagues, confiding of new made ground, as not a single tone is to be found in it. The sea, throwing up again that pro vicious quantity of mud, leaves of reeds, boughs and pumps of trees, which the Miflifippi is continually wash ing down; all there materials, pushed backward and forward, collect and bind themselves into a solid mass, which continually tends to the prolongation of this vast continent. Another and still more striking singularity, which, perhaps, is no where else to be met with, is that the waters of this great river, when once they are got out of its bed, never return into it again. The reason is this. THE Miflifippi is annually swelled by the melting of the snows in the north, which begins in March, and con tenues for about three months. The river lies very deep at the upper part, and does not overflow on the east side till it comes within sixty leagues of the sea, nor on the weft side till within a hundred leagues; that is to say, on the low lands which we imagine to be new ground. These muddy grounds, like all others that have not yet acquired their due confidence, bear a prodigious quantity of large reeds, which stop and entangle all extraneous bodies that are washed down the river. The collection of all these fragments, with the slime that fills up the in terlticcs, in process of time raises the banks higher than the adjacent ground; so that the waters, once overflow VOL. IV. H ed,
B 0 o K e, are prevented by this obstacle from the possibility of xi . returning into their former channels; and are, therefore compelled to force an outlet for themselves into the sea, by gliding through the fande.,WVHEN we consider only the breadth and depth of the Mississippi, we are apt to think the navigation of it must be e=fv; but this is a mifi.ke. It is very tedious, even in coming down, because it would be dangerous to continue it by nigh: in dark weather, and because the light canoes made of bark, which are so convenient on all other li vers, are not sufficient upon this. It requires larger boats which are consequently heavier, and not so easily ma named. Without these precautions, as the river is always full of trees that fall from its own banks, or float into it from other rivers, the boats would be in continual danger of striking against the boughs or roots of some tree lying under water. The difficulties are greater still in going up. AT a certain defiance from land, before we enter the Mississippi, we mutt take care to keep clear of the float ing wood that is come down from Louisiana. The ccafi is so fia, that one can hardly see it at the distance of two leagues, and it is not easy to come at it. The river has a great many mouths, they are continually shifting, and most of them are very shallow. When a vessel has hap. pity surmounted all these obstacles, she may fail up quietS) enough for ten or eleven leagues, through an open ant sandy country. We then meet with such thick forest! on each side, that they wholly intercept the winds. Suet a dead calm prevails, that it commonly takes up a month to get through a space of twenty leagues; and this i not to be done but by successively fastening the cordage to some great tree. 'I he difficult) is increased in getting beyond the forest, which terminates at the turn belongings
to the English, by a crescent that shuts almost close. The O 0 K,XVI. well of tie navigation, upon such a r:;p'd stream, and To, . , sal of currents, is performed in boats that go with oars and sails, and ale forced to cross fi-om point to point; and when they let out by break of day, have made a confider able progress, if the) have only advanced five or fix leagues by the close of the evening. The Europeans who have entered upon this navigation, take along with them some Indian huntsmen, who follow by land, and supply them with subsistence during the three months and a half that are employed in going from one extremity of the colony to the other. 'THESE are the only dific:lctuls the French have met with in forming their settlements on the vast region of Louisiana. The English, fettled in the east, were too assiduously engaged ins their own cultures, to neglect them for the fake of ravaging distant regis lis, and have sei dom succeeded in seducing, even for a short time, the small wandering nations between the two colonies. The Spaniards, unfortunately for themselves, were more turbulent to the weft. The desire of getting rid of a neigh your whose restless disposition might one day be prejudicial to them in New Mexico, induced them in t720 to form the plan of a settlement far beyond the lands which till then had terminated their boundaries. The numerous caravans that were to compose this new colony, set out from Santa Fe, with all the requisites for a permanent habitation. They directed their march towards the Sages whom they wanted to induce to join with them in extirpating an indigenous nation, who were neigh hours and enemies to the Ozges, and whose territory they intended to occupy. The Spaniards accidentally missed their way, and went directly to that very libation whose ruin they were meditating; and mil aking,H 2 thceb
B O 0 K these Indians for the Sages, opened their purpose with, XVI. - - out reserve the chief of the Missouri, being informed by this singular mistake of the danger that threatened him and his people, dissembled his resentment. He told them he would glacis concur in the success of their undertaking and only desired they would allow him two days to as semble his warriors. When they were arid to th number of two thousand, they sell upon the Spaniards whom they had amused with feasting, and dancing, an whom they found fast asleep, and massacred them all, with out distinction of age or sex. The chaplain alone escaped tll slaughter, and he owed his preservation to the singularity of his dress. This catastrophe having secured the than quality of Louisiana, on the side where it was most threat end, it could only be molested by the natives; but the were not much to be feared. THESE savages were divided into several nations, nor of them very populous, and all at enmity with eac other, though separated by immense deserts. Moll them had a fixed abode, and almost all worshipped tl fun. Their houses were made of nothing but leave twisted together, and stretched upon a number of flake Those who did not go quite naked, were only cover with the skins of wild beasts. They lived upon the pro duce of hunting and fishing, upon maize, and some fool cutaneous fruits. Their customs were nearly the same those of the savages of Canada, but they possessed a left degree of strength and courage, of quickness and fag ciy ; and their character was less marked. Without coi filtering the natural causes, whkh might contribute this difference, the savages of Louisiana were under th dominion of chiefs, v;ho exercised a'r.of an absolute a tho:i:y over them.,AMOrNG
AMONGST these nations, the only one that drew any B O0 K,XVI kind of attention, was that of the Natches. 'hey obey ed one man, who stiled himfelflthe fun ; bccai:fe he bore upon his breast the image of that luminary, for which he claimed his descent. The police, war, religion, all depended upon him. The whole universe could not, per laps, have produced so complete a despot. Til wise of this fun, as he was called, was invested with as much au authority as himself. When any one-of Iheiic enslaved fa wages had the misfortune to have diflAcafcd either of his masters, they would say to their guards, Ri! n.e f that dog, and they were instantly obeyed. All labour was un undertaken in common, and entirely for the benefit of the ruler, who distributed the produce as he thought proper. When either he or his wise died, their guards never failed to kill themselves, that they might attend and serve them in the next world. '1 he religion of the Patches, with much the same tenets as that of other savage , had more outward ceremonies, and consequently wa attended with more mischievous effects Yrt there was hut one temple for the whole nation. It happened that this temple c::ce caught fire, and the consternation was general. They tried in vain to flop the progress of time Illness. 'one mothers threw their children in, and at last the fire was extinguished. The next day tell barbarous heroines were extolled in a discourse delivered by the despotic pon tiff. It is thus that his authority waa maintained. It is astonishing how to poor and Ib savage a nation could be so cruelly enslaved. But superstitions accounts for all the unreasonable actions of men. That alan could rob a nation of its liberty, which had little life to logic. YET the country inhabited by the Natches, on the banks of the Mississippi, was pleasant and fertile. It drew the attention of tile firs Frenchmen who failed up the,H 3 rlcr.
B O K river. Far from opposing their intention of settling there, XI. these people affixed them in it. Reciprocal and heneficial,exchanges laid the foundation of a lading friendship be tween the two nations. It right have proved so, had not the avidity of :he Europeans weakened the connexion. The strangers at first desired only to agree fir the pro du&icr.s of the country. Afterwards, they ft thrown price upon them. At last they found it would be more convenient to have them fer nothing. Their audacity grew to such a pitch as to drive away the old inhabitants from the fields they had cleared. THIS tyranny provoked the savages. In vain they had recourse to intreaties, and to force. Every thing was either ineffectual or proved fatal to them. These repeat ed provocations at ait engaged them to endeavour to stir up all the eastern nations, whose dispositions they were acquainted with; and towards the latter end of the year 1729, thcV succeeded in forming an universal league, the purpose cf which was to afifitluate all the oppressors at the fine Inland. As the art of writing was unknown to the consulate nations, they agreed to count a certain .nomb:r of its ot wc,',iu that each was to keep. One of the-e tes to be bu.-r artery dey, and the last was to be the slgai f - t e .r: :ere," HE x ife c. i -' t '--eat chief was informed of the plot, by a !on !hc h. d by a Fr-nchm.an. She mentioned :: three .r .ur tires tu the French commanding officer i he inch a , and acre inlet him with all the pa?-ticui:-. ! .:s i:.;c:lencc was disregarded; but rit l l r-r": - in her r involution cf :having there strangers, whm-;e h?.d as it were naturalized in her heart. tr.s.!gh foe i::it.-;ttd herself so warmly for the whole nation mcr,!y fr.;-n .ft'cii.n to the French fettled in her -:: toi:, yet fie determined to save thos: fne had,1c;cc
never seen, even at the peril of those nie was acquainted B 0 0 K,XVI. with. Her ditni;tv of wise of the fun, giving her free, access to the temple, where the bits of stood were deposited she took away one or more of them every day, at the hazard of hastening the dlfirucai)m of her neigh hours, since ths, was necessary, in order to i';;.c the safer of the rest. Every things hlipn, d as he c::pc:cd. The Natches, on the day indicated Iv the . ::! .: rcecd upon, net doubting hut all their :l'ics vere at that in slant perpetrating the same tragical l;.nc, ! (c upon the French, and destroyed thick; hit rs the kit s es wood had not been fI(len from the ,other conspirator,, l\l re gained quiet ; and this circumstance alone saved the rising colony. In case of a surprize, they hid nothing to op pose to so many enemie, but a ie.v rotten lpalc, h::dly defended by a handfuls udiiiifi.lincd vagabonds, aln:of unharmed. BUT Perrier, in vIhnm 'he authority was vested, did not lose that pre-once of mi.;d which courage ilrpircs. The less he was able to relish, the more haughtiness he affect ed. These appearances had such an cf'ect, that cither for fear of being suspected, or in hopes of pardon, many of the conspirators joined with him to dear-In the Natches. That nation was put to the sword, their houses were burnt, and no remains of then were left but the place they had formerly filled. SOME scattered relics, however, of this unfortunate people, who happened to be at a ddliatcc from the center of their dominions, had time to take refuge amongst the Chichafiws, the most intrepid nation in Lolifiax.:. They had entered into the league against the French, more vehemently than the ret; their undaunted and Generous spirit made the laws of hospitality inviolable aln-olnS all savages still more sacred to them; so that no person dirce,Il 4 at
Bo o K at first to propose to them to deliver up the Natches, to,whom they had afforded refuge. But Bienville, who soon after succeeded Perrier, had the boldness to demand that those fugitives fiouid be given up. The Indians had the courage to refuse; and he immediately sent out all the troops of the colony against them in 1736. They formed two separate corps ; one was repulsed with great loss before the principal fort of the Chickasaws; the other was totally defeated in the open field. A second attempt was made four years after to subdue them with fresh forces from Europe and Canada. The French arms were as unsuccessful as before, till some fortunate incidents brought on an accommodation with the Indians. Since that period nothing has disturbed the repose of Louisiana. We shall now see to what pitch of prosperity this long peace has raised the colony. What the THE coasts of Louisiana, which are all situated on French have ton e te gulph of Mexico, are in general flat, often over in Louisa flowed, and every where covered with fine sand, as whites snow, and entirely barren. They are uninhabited and uninhabitable. No forts have ever been erected there, because there is no possibility of invading or making a descent upon them. The French have formed no fettle ments on the weft side of the mississippi. Indeed, in 1721, they had some designs on the bay of St. Barnard; but they. miscarried by the neglect of the officer who was intrusted with the execution of them. Instead of obey ing the orders that had been given him, he entered the river magdalena, which he met with in his way, failed five or fix leagues up it, carried off a few savages, and returned to the place from whence he came. The next year, when they attempted to repair this error, they found the port occupied by some Spaniards from Vera Cruz.,To
To the cast of the Mississippi Stands fort Mobile, on tie B O O K banks of the river of the same name, the course of which X extends no less than one hundred and thirty leagues. It is intended as a check upon the ('haClaws, the Alias mous. and Come other heifer tribes, to keep them to their alliance with France, and to secure their fur trade. The Spaniards of Pensacola buy up some provisions and mer chastise at this settlement. THERE are a great number of outlets at the mouth of the Mississippi, 'ut they are very uncertain. Many of them are often dry. Some will only admit boats and ca noes. Only one of them can receive slips of five hun died tons burthen. On the channel through which they muff fail, a kind of citadel is built, which is called La Valise. Twenty leagues higher up are two forts which guard both sides of the river, and defend it from all at tacks. Though they are in themselves but indifferent, they would be more than fufrcienr to oppose the passage of a hundred ships, more especially as only one flip could come in at a time, and even that could neither calf anchor, nor come to a mooring at that place. NEw ORLEANS is the first settlement that presents itself. It is thirty leagues distant from the Tea. It vwa- begun in 1717, but acquired no firmness till 1722, when it be came the chief place of the colony. Then it was that the plan of a handsome city was traced out, which has since risen by flaw degrees. The fleeces are all straight, and cross each other at right angus. They form sixty five islets, each containing fifty toises square, which are divided into twelve parcels of ground for as many inhabitants to build upon. The huts which formerly covered this great space are now exchanged tor commodious houses mostly built with brick. They are all surrounded with canals, which communicate with each other. This was,thought
B 0 0 Thought to be a necessary precaution against the floods. XVI. v This city, intended to be the center of all the intercourse between the mother country and the colony, was built on the east side of the river. The landing is so easy that the largest ships need only make a little bridge with planks in order to unload their goods. But when the waters are out, it is necessary they should listen their departure, because the quantity of wood that floats down the river at that time would accumulate in the anchoring place, and would cit the larger cables asunder. AN almost uninterrupted ,ring of habitations runs along both sides of the river. Below new Orleans, they extend but five leagues, and are not very considerable. Lower down, the land grows narrower, and becomes less to the sea side. Upon this flip of land, nothing is to be seen but sains and marshes unfit to .helter man, and only intended for water fowls and M, fchettoes. The planta tions up the Miflifippi, reach ten leagues above the town. The nmofl distant have been cleared by Germans, whose indefatigable labour has erected two villages, inhabited by the nr.of laborious men in the colony. All along these fifteen leagues of cultivated ground, the river, has ben instanced, to preserve the lands from the inundations w;,,ich return regularly every spring. This bank is preserved b abroad di:hr.s, cut round every field, to drain dss the waters, which might otherwise overthrow this dite THRCOUGHCLuT the whole space, the soil is very mud dy, and extremely pr over for productions that require a moist situation. When they want to till the fresh ground, they serf cut down the great reeds with which it is overrun. As soon as they are dry, they set fire to them. Then if the earth is but ever so lightly stirred tp, it produces great petty of rice, nl'ian corn, and all forts of grain, pulhc,or
or other vegetables, that are sown upon it, except wheat, B 0 0 K,· XVl which runs to grass from the too great luxuriance of the i soil. PcSSIBLY the inhabitants, which are scattered along the banks of the river, might have been more judiciously placed four or five hundred paces further off, or even at the defiance of half a league, upon fume little eminences, which are very common near that spot. A more pure air and a solid bottom would have been found there, and, probably, wheat woud have succeeded, when the woods had been cleared. Nothing would have been equal to the fertility of the grounds, if left open to the annual inundation of the river; because the waters, as they sub sided, would constantly have enriched them with a fresh supply of shine, which would have greatly promoted vegetation In process of time, nothing would have been seen on both sides of the Mississippi but extensive pastures covered with innumerable flocks and herds; a range of gardens, orchards, and plantations of rice, sufficient for a numerous population. This glorious prospect might have been carried on from New Orleans, all over lower Louisiana ; and thus a second France would have ap feared in America. INS! Head of this delightful prospect, ten leagues above New Orleans, begins an immense desert, where nothing is to be I;ens but two wretched towns, inhabited by fa wages and this desert extends for the I;Iace of thirty leagues, after which we arrive at the spot that is called Pointe Couple, which is the work of European inlduiiry. In this place the Mississippi formerly took a large sweep. Some Frenchmen, by digging into a rivulet that ran be hind a point of land, brought the waters of the river into it. They flowed wvlh such impetuosity into this new channel, that they corrp!etcd the cutting off of the,point,
B O 0 K point, and by this circumstance fourteen leagues of the XVI.,navigation have been fared. The old bed of the river was soon dry, and in a short time was covered with such large trees as astonished all who had seen them spring up. This happy change gave life, stability and same to one of the bell settlements in those parts. THE inhabitants, fettled on both sides of the river, have adorned their abodes with all kinds of European fruit-trees, none of which have degenerated. For their own consumption they cultivate rice and maize, and for exportation cotton, and especially tobacco. The sale of their timber is likewise a profitable article twenty leagues above the pointe coupe, the Red ri ver falls into the Mississippi. The French have built a fort thirty-five leagues from the mouth of it. It was in the country of the Natfitoches that this foundation of power and commerce was laid. The plan was to convey into the colony through this channel the gold and silver of New Mexico, which had already circulated near the spot. But there hopes were frustrated by the poverty of the inhabitants, and the little intercourse they had with richer places. The only advantage reaped from that neighbourhood was that it supplied oxen, and horses which were not to be had in Louisiana. Since they have ben multiplied there, so as to want no supplies from abroad, that pols which was not founded upon the Iyflcm rs agriculture, has continually degenerated ; and this huss is the more to be lamented, as the colony of the Natches is still more in a slate of decay. ITS situation, which is at a hundred and ten leagues from the sea, was the most favorable that Yberville could meet with in failing up the river. He flaw no finer spot, on which to fix the capital of the intended colony. All who viewed it after him, were equally delighted with the,ad-
advantages it presented. The climate was healthy and B 0 0 K temperate; the soil fit for tobacco, cotton, indigo, and , every kind of culture; the ground high enough to be in no danger from the inundations; the country open, ex derisive, well watered, and within reach of every fettle .cent that might be made. Its distance from the ocean was no impediment to the arrival of the ships. So fair a prospect had soon formed a colony of five hundred men, when their intolerable ambition occasioned their total de strain by the hands of the savages whom they had provoked. 'I hose who came after to supply their place, and avenge their death, did not bring this settlement to any greater degree of prosperity, whether it tas owing to negligence on their parts, or to their meeting with fresh difficulties. A hundred and twenty leagues above the Natches, is the colony of the Akanfas. It would have become very considerable, if the nine thousand Germans, railed in the Palatinate with a view to form it, had arrived there safe. They were an honest and industrious people; but they all perished before they got thither. The Canadians who fixed there in coming down the river, found a delightful climate, a fruitful soil, easy circumstances and tranquillity As they had been accustomed to live with savages, they were not averse from marrying the daughters of the Akanfas, and there alliances were attended with the hap priest consequences. There never was the least coolness between the two nations which were united by there in intermarriages, though so different from each other. They have lived in that state of commerce, and that intercourse of good offices, which the fluctuating situation of affairs required from time to time.,'IHE like harmony, though in a Icffcr degree, subsists among the Illinois, who are three hundred leagues diflant,from
B 0 K from the Akanfas; for in America the fevered nations are X , not close together as they are in Europe, and are but theodore independent, both at home and abroad. They have no chiefs combined together to lifntch them from or fa orifice them to each other, and render them so n;iler bic, that it becomes a matter of indifference to then to which they belong. The naio.n of the Illinois, the most northern in Louisiana, was continually beaten, and continually in danger of being destroyed by the Iroquois and other na tions from the north, when the French a rived among them from Canada. These Europeans, who were re owned for their valour in that I art of the new continent, were welcomed and courted, as being able to make the best find again' an old and inveterate enemy. The foragers have multiplied, so as to shock fix considerable villages, whilst the natives, who were formerly very po populous, are now reduced to three towns, which do net contain above two thousand fouls in all. Both have for taken the river which gave its name to the country, in order to fettle on the more pleasant and fertile banks of the Mississippi, near the place where their own river falls into it. This settlement, the fertility of which it is im possible to exaggerate, is become the granary of the whole colony, and could furnish it with plenty of corn, if it were peopled even as far as to the faa. But it falls very short of so prosperous a ltate.,NEVER did Louisiana in its greatest splendour reckon more than fine thousand white people, including twelve hundred men who composed the military force of the co tony. This inconsiderable population was dispersed up and down the banks of the Mississippi, in an extent of five hundred league, and supported by two or three bad forts constructed at different distance : yet it was not made up of that refuse of Europe, which France had discharged
charged into America, at the time when the system was B 0 O K established. All those wretches had perished fortunately XVI without propagating the breed. The colonists of Louisiana were tout hearty men, come from Canada, or disbanded soldiers, who had wisely preferred the labours of agri culture to a life of idleness, the frequent consequence of pride and prejudice. Every fttlcr received from the go government, not only a piece of ground, with feed to sow it, but likewise a gun, an ax;, a mattock, a cow and calf, a cock and fix hens, with wholesome and plentiful provisions for three years. Some officers and a few men of substance had improved there beginnings of population considerable plantations, which cnmpioyed fix thousand fl ives. BUT the fruit of their labour was very inconsiderable. The annual exports of the colon) did not exceed 2oo,coo crowns.(e) They consisted of rice, pranks, maize, and pulse for the sugar islands ; cotton, indigo, tobacco and furs for the mother country. THIS cflablifnlent, which seemed intended by nature What the for a capital settlement, would, probably, have prospered, ,reit h but for the original error of granting lands indiscriminate in lately to every person who applied for them. We Should not then have seen lonely plantations some hundreds of leagues apart; such as would have been good estates in Europe, but were of no value when separated by vast deserts. Glad the colonists fixed in a common center, they might have afflict each other, and living under the same laws, have enjoyed all the advantages of a velle regulated society. As population had increased, the lands would have been cleared to a greater extent. Instead of a few hordes of savages, we should have seen a riling,co!ony, (e) 16,50ol
B O C }. colony, which might in time have become a powerfully , nation, and procured infinite advantages to France.,THIS establishment, which annually imports from abroad seventeen millions weight of tobacco, would ca fi'y have been supplied with that commodity from Louisiana Twelve or sixteen thousand men, killed in t!-e cultivation of it, would have provided this branch of consumption for the whole kingdom. Such were the hopes the government entertained, when they ordered all the tbacc Plantation-is in Guiana to be destroyed : con .in:cedha tha the lands in that province were adapted to mere i portent and richer cultures, and would produce r.eicfary articles of greater consequence, they thought it would be for the benefit both of the mother country and the colony, to secure to Louisiana, then in its infant state, a market for that production, which would more easily succeed and thing in greater returns, as it required less time, experience and expence. When Law, the project of this undertaking, sell into discredit, his most rational schemes were laid aside, and shared the same fate as thule which were merely the offspring of a disordered imagination. The farmers of the revenue, who were gainers by this mistake, omitted nothing to en courage it; and every patriot muff be allowed to say, that this is not one of the least mischiefs the finance has done to the monarchy. THE wealth which tobacco would have poured into the colony, would have given feme information respecting the utility of the spacious and beautiful meadows with which that country abounds. They would soon have been covered with cattle; their hides would have supplied the mother country with leather, without importing any from abroad, and their flesh prepared and salted would have been disposed of in the islands, instead of Irish beef.,Horses
Horses and mules, multiplying in the same proportion as B O O K,XVI. the horned cattle, would have freed the French colonies, . from the dependence they have always been in upon the English and Spaniards for this necessary article. WHEN once they had begun, they would have pro needed from one branch of industry to another. They could not possibly avoid building ships, because they had the materials at hand. The country was covered with wood fit for the hull, and the fir-trees that grew in great plenty al:,ng the coast, would have afforded masts and tar. There was no want of oak fur the planks, and if there had, it might have been supplied by cypress, which is less apt to split, to bend or to break, and a little additional thickness might have compensated for the want of strength and hardness. They might have grown hemp for the fails and rigging. Nothing, perhaps, need have been imported but iron; and it is even more than probable that there are iron mines in Louisiana. It is likely that the government, encouraged by the success of individuals, would loon have erected docks for ship-building, and storehouses ready for equipping and fitting out fleets in America.,THE forests being felled for these purposes without any expence, and even with profit, the ground would have been laid open for corn, cotton, indigo, flax, or olive trees; and even silk might have been successfully undertaken, when once the colony had been sufficiently populous to attend to the culture of the mulberry tree, which has been found to thrive very well in this mild climate In short they might have made any thing of a possession where the air is temperate, the ground even, fresh, and fertile, and which had not as yet been properly inhabited, but rather run over by a parcel of unsteady and unskilful vagabond sol. IV. I HAD
BO O K HAD Louisiana been brought to that degree of perfect. XVI. Xv 'tuition it was capable of, its entrance would Coon have been made more accessible and more convenient; which might have been esteem without any great expence by a con slant attention. For this purpose it would have been sufficient to have flopped up all those useless passes, which are rather a hindrance than a help to navigation, and this might have been done with the floating trees that the river washes down. The whole force of the stream he irg thus ccnfi.ie' to one channel, the river would have become deeper at its mouth, and, probably, the bar which almost shuts it up would have been removed. Then the largest ships might have failed into the Mississippi with more ease and safety than the smallest do at present. After this, those thick forests that intercept the wind might have been felled,'and the navigation up the river to New Orleans rendered less tedious. All the arts and ad-savages of every kind would have sprung up in a regular succession, to form a flourishing and vigorous co tony in that spacious plain. raonce BUT Race overlooked all these advantages when' sheba to th ceded that country, which alone could repair her forme Spaniards. losses, and gave it up to Spain, to whom it could be no Whether felice hi a thin mer" than a burthen. It may, perhaps, for a long rit to do time remain a political problem, whether this cession wa! this?,not alike detrimental to both crowns, who were both equally weakened by it; the one, in giving up what fhi ought to have retained, and the other in accepting what hfb could not keep. But in a moral light, may it not be con filtered as an illegal a.c thus to have sold or given wa' the members of the community to a foreign power? So what right has a prince to dispose of his subjects without their content ?,WVHA'
.WIIAT becomes of the rights of the people, if all is B 0 0 K,XVI. due from the nation to the prince, and nothing from the, prince to the nation ? Arc there then no rights but those of princes ? These ptctcnd to derive their power frown God alone. Ths, maxim is a contrivance cf the clergy, who set kings above the people, only that they them .flvcs may command even kings in the name of the deity, and is no more than an iron chain, to bind a whole na tion under the power of one man. It is no longer then a mutual tie of love and virtue, of interea and fidelity, that gives to one family the rule in the un-midst of a so city. BUT why (hould authority with to conceal its being derived from men ? Kings are sufficiently informed by na ture, experience, history, and their own consciousness, that it is of the people they hold all they possess, whether conquered by arms, or acquired by treaty. As they receive from the people all the fruits of obedience, why should they refuse to accept from them all the rights of authority ? Nothing is to be apprehended from voluntary submission, nor is any thing to be obtained by the abuse of usurped power. It can only be supported by violence and how can a prince be happy who commands only by force, and is obeyed only through fear? He can not lit cafe upon his throne, when he cannot reign with out asserting that he holds his crown from God alone. Every man may more truly affirm, that he holds from God his life, his liberty, the unalienable right of being governed only by reason and justice. The welfare then and security of the people is the supreme law otn i which all others depend. This is, undoubtedly, the real fun mental law of all society. It is by this we muff inter poet carry ,l ar;;Ici;l-r .iv x which quot be derived f;-cm this principle, and citric to explain and support it.,I 2 Ir
O 0 t. I we apply this rule to the treaties of division and -, ceiaon-which kings retake between themselves, will it ap-spear that tFcy have t!:e right of buying, selling or ex chagin;n t:-ir f; :els without their consent? Shall princes then arrow-te to thlermaSees the barbarous right of alienating or m' raging their prv inches and their sub seats as they would their esE-l, or estate ; while the ifp- plis grant for the fi-port of their house, the forests cf their domain:, the jewels of their craven, are all sacred untenable trees, '.h:ch we muff never have recourse tc, even in the inmost pression exigences of the fates .methinks I h ar the vice of a numerous colony exclaim ing from America, and asLre!.'ig the mother country in the follow. terms.,\'hat have I done to thee, that thou f(ouildfc de "liver me up into the hoitds cf a stranger? Did I offspring fr.-m thy loin, Have I not own, planted, " ci::latecJ, and reaped for thee alone F When thy ships "conte cdn mr to three shores, different from thy own "happy climate, didil thou not engage for ever to pro-,tect Ime .\ ih thy fleets and armies ? Have I not fought - in fjppu;rt of thy rights, and dwindled the country " tho u;: \ l me ? Ater having fertilized it by my la · your, have I not mainaineaie ii for the at the expence of my brood Thy h:i.dren v.erc my pir·: rs or Im. brett en ; thy laws ny boas, and thy name my pride: "that name which I have striven to render illufirious,among nations ta whom it was unknown. I have pro - cured thee frie:.cd, and allies among tie savages. I fat tered myfcif v.i t the thought that I night one day *- cane in competition with thy rivals, and b' the terrcr,of thy enemies. Bur thou haft forsaken me. Thou sir; blunt ree-without my constat by a t:caty, the : very concealment of whelp was a treachery. Unfeeling
ing, ungrateful parent, how couldst thou break, in B 0 0 K " opposition to the dictates of nature, the ties by v.hich .I I was attached to thee, even from mn birth ? while " with inceiirnt and painful toil I was restoring to thee " the tribute of nouiih:menett and fitlfificnce 1 had re-,ceivcd from thee, I wilhelm fr no o'*:.r consort than ' that of living and dying under thy a'.;. Th t cncm- ' fort thou hait refused n.e. 'hou hr.ft torn me from "my family to deliver me up to a masser whom I had not " approved. Restore my parch to me; before me to " him whore maire I have been used to cal upon from,my calicut infancy. It is in thy power to make me f submit againllf y will to a yoke which I abhor; but this lfamiffion v. ill only be temporary. I filial languish and frill with grief ard weakness; or if I fliuld recover lite and vigour, it . ill only be to with draw myself from connections I bereft; thigh I should even be comprised to dclixci n-mjelf up to thy "enemies ? LOUISIANA being in reality olpp-eleu t: her new marchers, vws desirous of shaking off a. kcke which She had abhorred even bessie it had been impcftd ; but being rejected by France when she ende soured to put herself again under her protection, (he returned uns' r the do minion of the same pc.v.er from wiroif ch his she lad at tempted to free hcr;iltf. The cruelties flie has experienced frcm the resentment of an inceilred goernnmcrt, have served only to increase a hatred ah'c. y too inveterate to be forgotten. With such Ulipoli;ion' , the colony can scarce flatter itself to attain any dercee of prosperity. Though Canada has alio changed its tinthcr country, it will not meet with the fn;e obila'.ces to its im l'cvcmllell13,I 3 AT
BOOK AT the peace of UtreCht, this vast country was in ;. XVI - XV. state of weakness and bribery not to be conceived. This State of was owing to the French who came there first, and who Canada at rather threw thenm-.e!;es into this country, than fettled the peace of Utrecht. upon it. Moil cf them had done ncthii:n more than roundabout the wrvo !s; the more reasonable among them had at tempted fie c ult:jrs, but without choice or plan. A piece cf grc-'nd, hastily tilled and built upon, was as hastily for taken. However, the expences the government was at, together with the profess of the fur trade, at times afforded the inhabitants a comfortable subsistence; but a scries of un fortunate wars soon deprived them of these enjoyments. In 17 4, t'c exports from Canada did nor exceed a hundred thousand crowns.(s) This sum, added to 35c,co0 Iivres,(£) which the government sent over every year, i-as all the colony had to depend] upon, for the payment of the cords they received from Europe. And indeed there re o fzw, that mo people were reduced to wear skins like the India s. Such was the deplorable situation of the far greater part of twenty thousand French in habitants, who were supposed to be in these immense regions. Pop.sI;i- THE happy spirit which at that time animated the fe on, ani vernal parts 'f the world, routed Canada from the languid culture, manner, hate in w.hchit had so long been plunged. It appears goi'm- from the estimates taken in 17 53 and 1 758, which were Trent, fithcrits, nearly equal, that the population amounted to 91,o0o id,-S r rfcJ!s, exiu-i,e c.f the regular troops, whose numbers and revenues cf varied according to the different exigencies of the co Canada. lony.,THIS calculation did not include the many allies dispersed throughout an extent of 12C0 leagues in length, ard of considerable breadth, nor yet the 16b,co Indians,who (f) ;3,S5. . (g) 15,)3]1. Rise.
who dwelt in the center of the French settlements, or in B O o K their neighbourhood. None of these were ever considered XVI. as subjects, though they lived in the midst of a great Eu european colony: the smallest clans fill preserved their in dependence. All men talk of liberty, but the savage alone enjoys it. Not only the whole nation, but every individual is truly free. The conliictuufefs of his inde sentence operates upon all his thoughts and actions. He would ether the palace of an Asiatic monarch, just as he would come into a peasant's cottage-nd neither be dazzled with his splendor, nor awed by his power. It is his own species, it is mankind, it is his equal that he loves and respects, but he would hate a master and destroy him. PART of the French colony was centered in three cities. Quebec, the capital of Canada, is 15 s0 leagues distant from France, and 120 leagues from the sea. It is built in the form of an amphitheatre, on a peninsula, made by the river St. Lawrence, and the river St. Charles, and commands a prospect over extensive fields, which fervent enrich it, and a very safe road that will admit upwards of two hundred ships. It is three nmles in circumference. Two thirds of this circuit are defended by the water and the rocks, which are a better security than the fortifications erected on the ramparts that cut the peninsula. The houses are tolerably well constructed. The inhabitants were computed at about io,ooo fouls at the beginning of the year 1759. It was the center of commerce, and the feat of government. THE city of the Trois Rivieres, built ten years later than Quebec, and situated thirty leagues higher, was raised with a view of encouraging the trade with the northern Indians. But this settlement, though brilliant at first, never attained to more than 1500 inhabitants,,1 4 because
B O O Because the fur trade was soon diverted from this market, X"vI.,' and carried entirely to Montreal.,M OsTRE.AL is an island, ten leagues long and four broad, almost, formed by the river St. Lawrence, sixty leagues above Quebec. Of all the adjacent country, this is the mildest, the most pleasant, and the most fruitful spot. A few Scattered huts, erected by chance in 1640, advanced to a regular built town, which contained four thousand inhabitants. At first it lay exposed to the insults of the savages, but was afterwards inclosed with flight palisades, and then with a wall, about fifteen feet high, topt with battlements. It sell to decay, when the inroads of the Iroquois obliged the French to crew forts higher up the country, to secure the fur trade. THE o:h r colonists, who were not comprized within the wa.is of thrcf three cities, did not live in towns, but were scattered along the banks of the river St. Lawrence. None were to be teen near the mouth of that river, where the soil is rugged and barren, and v.-wcre no corn will ripen. The first habitations to the south, began fifty leagues, ard to the north, twenty leagues below Quebec; tz-;y were thinly scattered, and their produce was but indifferent. The truly fertile fields began only near the capital. and they grew better as one drew nearer to Mon treat. Nothing can be more beautiful to the eve than the rich borders of that long and broad canal. woods scat tered here and there which decorated the tops of the grasSy mountains, meadow covered with flocks, fields crowned with ripening corn, small firearms of water flowing down to the river, churches and castles seen at intervals through the trees, exhibited a succession of the moi inchanting prospers. These would have been flit! more delightful, if the edit of 1745 had been observed, which sorbad the colonist from dividing his plantations, unless they were,an
an acre and a half in front, and thiitv or forty acres in B 0 0 K,XVI. depth. Indolent heirs would not then have tern in pieces the inheritance of their fathers. '1 hey you'd have been compelled to form new 'habitations; and vast spaces of fallow land would no longer have iep.rat d rich and cul treated plains. NATURE herself directed the labours of the husband man, and taught him to avoid watery and sandy grounds, and all there where the pine, th. fir tree and :he cedar grew solitary ; but wherever he !ound a loll covered with maple, oak, beach, hornbeam and thrall cherry trees, there he might charitably expect an incrcdic of twenty to one in his wheat, and thirty to one in Indian corn, without the trouble of manuring. ALL the plantations, though of different dimensions, were sufficient for the wants of their respective owners. There were few of them that did not yiied maize, barley, flax, hemp, tobacco, pulse, and pot herbs in great plenty and excellent in their kind. Most of the inhabitants had a score of slice whole wool was very valuable to them, ten or a dozen filch cows, and live or fix oxen for the plough. The cattle was finally, but their flesh was excellent, and title people lived much better than our country;' people do in kl:opc. Wish this kind of affluence, lily could arl-r;d to keep a good number of hori.'cs. f hey were not fine, in deed, but able to go through a great deal of hard work, and to run a prodigious way upon the snow. They were so fond of multiplying them in the colony, that in winter time they would lavish on them the corn that they them selves regretted at another seafowl:. SUCH was the situation of the 83,0co French, dill perfect or collected on the banks of the river St. Law hence. Above the head of the river, and in what is called,tle
BO OK the upper country, there were 8000 more, who were,,.more addicted to hunting and trade than to hufbindry.,THEIR first settlement was Citaraklii, or fort Frontenac built in 1671 'at the errand of the hake Ontario, to flop the inroads of ;he English and iroquois. The bay of this pl':ce rve d zs a hlarc 'ir for the men of war and trading se!;ils belonging to this great Like, which might with more p:oprictv be called a fen, and where storms are almost as frequent and as dreadful as on the ocean. Between the lakes Ci;tari' a:d Erie, which both measure 3^3 league's i: cl:rcrr.;'cr;cre, iLs a continent of fourteen leagues. This !::;r is interfered to-arts the middle by the Linus fall of Niagara, which from its height, breadth zrd shape, ard from the quantity and impetuosity of its waters, is justly accounted the mos wonderful cataract in the world. It vias above this grand and awful water-fall, that France had ereaed fortifications with a design to prevent the Indians from carrying their furs to the rival nation. Beyond the lake Erie is an extent of land, distinguished by the name of the Straight, which exceeds all Canada for the mildness cf the climate, the beauty and variety of the prospects, the richness of the soil, and the profusion of game and fish. Nature has lavished all her sweets to enrich this delightful spot. But this was not the motive that determined the French to fettle there in the beginning of the present century. It was the vicinity cf several Indian nations who could supply them abundantly with furs; and, indeed, this trade increased with considerable rapidity. The success of this new settlement proved fatal to the post of Michillimakinach, a hundred leagues further, between the lake Michigan, the lake Huron, and the,lake
lake Superior, which' are all three navigable. TheB-O'O'K,Xv'. greatest part of the trade which used to he carried on - ., there with the natives, went over to the Streight, and there it fixed. BESIDES the forts ar-lady mentioned, there are some of lesser note, in cliffrclet parts of the country, constructed upon rivers, or at the openings between the mountains. The first sentiment interest inspires, is that of mistrust, and its first inpu:li, is that of attack or defence. Each of these forts was manned with a garrison, which de fended the French who were fettled in the neighbour hood. All tither blade up S'-co fouls, who inhabited the upper co;rlt:v. THe manners ,.f the French colonists fettled in Cana da were not always .miserable to the curiae they inhabited Three that hired in the country, spent their winter in idleness, - harvey fitting by their fire side. When the return of pringr called them out to the indispensable la hours of the field, they ploughed the ground superficially without ever manuring it, sowed it carelessly, and then sank again into their former indolence till harvest time. The people were too proud or too lazy to work for hire, so that every family was obliged to gather in their own crops; and nothing was to be seen of that sprightly joy, which on a fine summer's day enlivens the reapers, whilst they are gathering in their rich harvest. Those of the Canadians never went beyond a frali parcel of corn of each kind, a little hay and tobacco, a few cyder-apples, cabbage and onions. This was the whole produce of a plantation in that country. THIS amazing negligence might be owing to several causes. The excessive cold in winter, which froze up the rivers, in a manner locked up and benumbed the fa cities of men, They contraSted such a habit of idle-ness
B 0 Kncfs during the continuance of the severe weather, for XVL,eight months successively, that labour appeared an intolerable hardship, even in the finest wether. The numerous festivals of their religion were another hindrance to their industry. Men are ready enough to praise that kind of devotion which exempts them from labour. Lazily, their passion for arms, which had been purposely encouraged amongst these courageous ans daring men, made them averse from the labours of husbandry. 'heir minds were so entirely absorbed in military glory, that they were fond cr nothir. but war, though they engaged in it without pay. THE inhabitants of the cities, especially of the Capital lived both in winter and summer, in a constant round of dissipation. T'hey were alike insensible to the beauties of nature, and to the pleasures of imagination; they had ro taste for arts or sciences, ftr reading or intrusion. Their only passion was amusement, and persons of all ages were fond of dancing at assemblies. This way of life considerably increased the influence of-the ladies, who were possessed of every attraction, except those soft emotions of the foul, which alone constitute tCe merit and the charm of' bautv. Likely, g.,y, coquets and added to gallantry, they were more gratis with inspiring than feeling the tender paifo::s. In both sexes might be ob served a greater degree of devotion than virtue, more re legion than probity, a higher sense of honour than ol real homily. Superstition took place of morality, as il does wherever men are taught to believe that ceremonies will cnnipenfa;c for good works, and that crimes are ex. plated by prayers. Idleness, prejudice and lcsi:v would never have taker such an ascendant in Canada, had the government bees careful to employ t'.; minds of the people upon solid anm,pro
profitable object. But all the colonists were required'to B 0 0 K,XVI. pay an implicit obedience to a mere military authority. , They were unacquainted with the flow and sure process of the laws. 7 he will of the chief, or of his delegates, was an oracle, which they were not even at liberty to interpret, an awful decree, which they were to sub mit to without examination. Delays, representations, excuses of honour, were so many crimes in the eyes of a despotic ruler, who had usurped a power of punishing or absolving by his bare word. He held in his own hands all favours and penalties, rewards and punishments; the right of imprisoning without the shadow of a crime, and the still more formidable light of inforcing a reverence for his decrees as so many acts of justice, though they were but the irregular sallies of his own caprice. IN early times, this unlimited power was not con fined to matters relative to military discipline and political administration, but was extended even to civiljurif- diction. 'The governor decided arbitrarily and without appeal upon all differences arising between the colonists. These contests were fortunately very rare, in a country where all things were almost, as it were, in common. This dangerous authority fubrlfied till 1663, at which period a tribunal was erected in the capital, for the de fugitive trial of all causes depending throughout the colo ny. The custom of Paris, modified suitably to local combinations, formed the code of their laws this code was not mutilated or disfigured by a mix ture of revenue laws. The administration of the finances in Canada, only took up a few fines of alienation; a tilting contribution from the inhabitants of Quebec and Montreal towards kcep:inr up the fortifications; and sone duties upon all goods imported and cxporttid, whichl,indced,
B O. OKirdeed, were too.hih. In 174i , all these several articles-xvi. ,-.'-. brought no more than 26c,2zc(L, livres into the treasury the lands were not taxed by the government, nor did they enjoy an entire exemption. A great mitla)ke was made at the first fettling of the colony, in granting to officers alt gentlemen a piece of land, from two to four leagues in front, and unlimited in breadth. These great proprietors, who were men of moderate fortunes, and unskilled in agriculture, were unable to manage such vast eft tes, arid ver, therf-.re, under a necessity of making over their lanes to fo!pilrs.or planters upon con edition they hould p:.v them a kind of ground-rent or homage for ever. 1 his was introducing into America something very like the feudal government, which was so long fatal to Europe. I he lord ceded ninety acres to each of his valets, who on their part engaged to work in his mill, to pay him annually one or two fols per acre, and a bushel and a half of corn for the entire grant. This tax, though but a finally ont, maintain-ad, a great number of idle people, at the expence of the only. class with which a colony ought to have been peopled. The true inhabitants, the laborious men, found the burthen of maintaining an annuitant nobility increased, by the additional exactions of the clergy. In 1667, the tithes were imposed. They were, indeed reduced to a twenty sixth part of the crops, notwithstanding the clamours of that rapacious body; but till this was an oppression, in a country where the clergy had a property allotted them, which was sufficient for their maintenance.,So man' impediments thrown in the way of agriculture disabled the colony to pay for the necessaries that came from the mother country. The French ministry were at las so full convinced of this truth, that after,having
having always obstinately opposed' the establishment of ma B 0 0 K manufactures in, America, they thought it their interest even to promote them in 706. IBt these too tardy encourage ments had very little effect, and the united industry of the colonists could never produce more than a:sew coarse linens, and some very bad woollen .ruffs. THE fisheries were not much more inviting than the manufactures. The only one that could be an object of exportation, was that of the feal. This animal has been ranked in the class of fish, though he is not dumb, is always born on land, and lives more on dry ground than in the water. His head is somewhat like that of a assisi He has four paws which are very short, especially the hinder ones, which serve him rather to crawl than to walk upon. They are shaped like fins, but the fore feet have claws. His skin is hard, and covered with Short hair. He is born white, but turns sandy or black, as he grows up. Sometimes he is of all the three co lours. THERE are two rifling: forts of seals. The larger fort will sometimes weigh no. tess than two thousand weight, and seem to have a sharper snout than the Others. The small' ores, whose skin is commonly marbled, are brisker, and'more dextrous at extricating themselves out of the snares that are laid for them. The Indians have the art of-taming them so far as to make them follow them. IT is upon the rocks that they couple, and that the dams lay their young, and sometimes upon the ice. They commonly bear two, and they usually suckle them in the water, but mole frequently on land. When they want to teach them to swim, it is said .they carry them upon their backs, drop them new and then into the water, .then take them up again, an. proceed in this manner till they're
B 0 0 Kre strong enough to swim of themselves. Most little.' birds flutter about from spray to spray, before they venture to fly abroad ; the eagle c;r ries her young, to train them up to encounter the boisterous winds; it is not there fore Comprising, th-t the fear born on land, Could exercitus her little c:.s in li-ting under watershed manner of fi:,l:i fer these amphibious animals is er) simple. Their cuiuom is, when they are out at sea, to enter into the creeks with the tide. As soon as £one place is discovered where they reform in shoals, they surround it with nets and flakes, Cr;! taking care to leave a little ope-king for them to get in. At high water this opening is flopped up, and when the tide is gone down, the prey remains on dry ground. There is nothing more to do but to knock them down. Sometimes the fisher men get into a carse, and follow them to their lurking places, where they! fere upon therm the moment they put their heads out of the water to take in air. If they are only wounded, they are easily caught; if they are killed, they fink directly, but are fetched up by great dogs, that are trained up to dive for them seven or eight fathom under watershed skin of the teal was formerly used for muffs, but afterwards to cover trunks, and to make shoes and boots. When it is well tanned, the grain is not unlike that ol morocco leather. it on the one hand it is not quite fc fine, on the other, it keeps longer the flesh of the feal is generally allowed to be good. but it turns to better account if it is boiled down to oil For this purpose, it is sufficient to set it on the fire in copper or earthen velle. Frequently nothing more i done than to spread the fat upon large squares made c boards, where it rests of itself, and the oil runs oi through ana opening mede for that purpose. It keep,cica
clear for a ions time, has no bad smell, and does not B 0 0 K,XVI. gather dross. It is used for burning, and for dressing of', leather. FIVE or fix find Il hips were site. out yearly from Ca rnada for the ic.l silvery in the gulph of St. Lawrence, and one or two less for the Caribbee islands. They re civet from the islands nine or ten vessels laden with rum, measles, coffee and sugar; and from France about thirty Dlipp, whore lading together might amount to nine thou find tons. IN the interval between the two last war', which was the molt flourishing period of the colony, the exports did not exceed 1,200,oco (i) livres in furs, 8oo,oo0 (k) in beaver, 25o,0co (/) in feal oil, the same in flour and peas, and I5S,oco livres (i/) in wood of all kinds. These several articles put toecihcr, amounted but to 2,650,0o0 livers (n) a year, a rum insufficient to pay for the commodities they draw from the mother country. The government made up the deficiency. When, the French were in possession of Canada, they had very little money. The little that was brought in from time to time by the new settlers, did not flay long in the country, because the necessities of the colony sent it away again. This was a great obstacle to the pro griefs of commerce and agriculture. In 1670, the court of Versailles coined a particular fort of money for the se of all the French settlements in America, and set a nominal value upon it, a fourth part above the value of the current coin of the mother country. But this expedient was not productive of the advantages that were ex pealed, at least with regard to New France. They, therefore, contrived to substitute paper currency to metal, for the pi. merit of the troop', and other expences of VOL. IV. K go (j) 52,5001. (k) 35,o000- (1) 10,937l 1-. (m) 6,5621. roa. (0) ,5,937-/ os.,
B oO K government. This succeeded till the year 1713, when Xvi,, they were no longer true to the engagements they adventured into with the administrators of the colony. The bills of exchange they drew upon the treasury of the mother country were not honoured, and from that time sell into discredit. They were at last paid off in 1720, but with the loss of five-eighths. THIS event occasioned the use of money to be resumed in Canada; but this expedient lasted only two years. The merchants found it troublesome, chargeable and ha various to send money to France, and so did all the co ionics who had any remittances to make; so that they were the first to sollicit the re-establishment of paper currency. This money consisted of cards, on which were stamped the arms of France and Navarre, and they were signed by the governor, the intendant and the comptroller. They were of twenty-four,(o) twelves) fix,(q) and three livres ;(-) and of thirty,(s) fifteenth) and seven fols and a half.(u) The value of the whole number that was made out, did not exceed a million of livres.(w) When this sum was rot sufficient for the de hands of the public, the deficiency was made up by orders signed only by the intendant. This was the first grievance ; but another and mere scandalous abuse was. that their number was un!lririteJ. The smallest were ol twenty Cl';;-!( and : holiest of a hundred livres.(y, Thes discreet papers circulated about the colony, ant fup?'-ie : ie want of money till the month of October T!:is was the latest season for the ships to fail from Ca. nail. Then all this paper-currency was turned into bill! of exchange payable in France by the government, whicl,wa (:) . is. (,) lo. 6:/. (7) 5s- 5. 3./. (r) zas. id .l:,::nny. (s) Is ,t. three f.,;;ithiIgs. (l) 7,t. 7-8thsl () ;d. three farthings, (a) 3,,75/. (x) Sod, halfpenny J) 4. ;s, 6d.
was supposed to have made use of the value. But they 0 0 K,XVI. were f., multiplied by the year 1754, that the Royal treat fury could no longer anf!ur such large demands, and was forced to protract the payment. An unfortunate war that broke out two years after, si increased their number, that at las they were p,,olib;tel. This pre gently raised the price of all commodities to an immoderate degree; and as, on account of the enormous ex fences of the war, the king was the great consumer, he alone bore the loss of the discarded paler, and of the dearness of the goods. In 1759. the ministry were ob lived to top payment of the Canada bills, till their origin and their real value could be traced. They amounted to an alarming number. THE annual expences of government for Canada, which in 1729 did not exceed 40c,0o0 livres,(z) and be fore i 749 never went beyond 1,700,coo,() were immense after that period. The year 1750 coit 2,ioc,coc;()b the year 1751, 2,700,000 ;(c) the year 1752, 4,090,000o; (d) the year 1753, 5,300,000; (e) the year 1754, 4,450,000 ;(f) the year 1755, 6,1c^,0oo;(g) the year 1756, 11,300,co0 ;(h) the )ear 1757, 19,250,000;(i) the year 1758, 27,90,00ooo; () the year 1759, 26,oo,00co ;(i) the first eight months of the year 1760, 13,500,000.(Q) Of these prodigious sums, ninety mil lions (n) were owing at the peace this dishonest debt was traced up to its origin, and the enormities that had given rise to it were inquired into, as far as the distance of time and place would al low. The gtcatcfr delinquents, who were become so in consequence of the unlimited power and credit given 2 them (2) I7,500/. (a) 74,7j /. (b) 9I,75/ (c) I6S,:Z; . (,.') 17S,937/, l os. (c) Z31,S75. (f) i4+.S6/7. Io. ) si3si ,7 / (s /. ') nA. ,-' . (i) 3S.S7/. () S, o, 6 - ,1/.
OO K them bv the government, were legally condemned to ,.-. ,make considerable restitutions, bat fii! ton moderate the claims of private creditors were all discussed. For tunatelv fur them and for the nation, the ministry intrusted with this imp,.rtnt; nd neccfiir. business, were none but men of knooan integrity, who were net to be intimidated by the threats of po;ecr, nor bribed by the offers of for tune; who c.uli ;ct be imposed upon by artifice, or wearied out b. cis :.:ii.s. By fic.dilly and impartially hk.' Sing ann bale n banc between the interest of the pub hic n3 the rights of inly ideals, they reduced the hum tot:. of the debts to thirty-eight millions. ) Advarnr.- IT wUS the flute as France if Canada was not worth ge-h;lch the itnr.r.nce sums that were bestowed upon it. It had France mig,:t like Icng since appeared that this watt region was every where dr'icrj c able cf !yielding prodigious crops, yet no more was nidi. Er cult i acted than hat was barely sufficient for the fuses 'hr-n.rs -, of the inhabitants. With moderate labour they I've deprived her might have rated corn enough to supply all the American tir hem. ifl;.nd-, and even fonte parts of Europe. It is well known that in 175r. the colony sent over two ship-loads of v-hc-t to \!ar!e!ll!s, which proved very good, and sold very well. This exportation ought: to have been encouraged, the more as the crops are liable to few ac c;dcnts in that country , where the corn is sown in May, ar gathered in before the end of August. IF husbandry had been encouraged and extended, the breed of cattle would have been increased. They have so such paF-ur ground, and such plenty of acorns, that the colonies nigh; easily have bred oxen and hogs, musician to fun'! the French islands with beef and pork, v, ithaut Ihav;'i recourse to Irish beef. Possibly, they might () l,5 ,;,co,'.
might in time have increased so much as to be able to B O 0 K visual the ships of the mother country. THEIR sheep would have been no le's advantageous to France. 'They were easily bred in Canada, where the dams commonly bear twins; and if they did not multi ply filter, it is because the ewes were left with the ram at a'l seasons; because, as they molly brought forth in February, the severity of the weather di stroked a great many lambs; and bccasul the' were obliged to teed them with corn, and the inhabitants found this so chargeable, that they did not much care to rear them. All this might have been prevented by a law, enjoining all farmers to part the rami front the ewes from september to February. The lambs dropped in Maw would have been reared with out any expence or hazard, and in a short time the co tony would have been coverlet with numerous flocks. Their wool, which is known to be very fine and good, would have supplied the manufactures of Fiance, instead of that which they import from Andalusia and Castile. The state would have been enriched by this valuable commodity; and ins return, the colony would have re ceivcd a thousand new and desire c articles from the mother country. THE Gin-sent would have been a great acquisition to to both. This plant, which the Chile procure from the Core, or from Tartary, ant which they buy at the weight of gold, was found ins 720, hy the Jelfit L:fi- tau, in the forests of Canada, where it grows very common. It was soon carried to Canton, where it was much esteemed, and llbd at an extravagant; pice. The Gin-sent, which ;it iii sold at Quebec for thirty or forty sols (p) a pound, immediately rose to twenty-five livres.(7) In 1752, the Canadians exported this plants 3 to (,) sA'.r'at 1:. C.i. ,n "n aver' .y-. (7) /. is, iC./. hits lelnnly.
B 0 O K to the value of ScC,Ooo livres.(r) There was such a de XVI. and for it, that they were induced to gather in lay what ought not to have been gathered till September, and to dry in the oven what should have been dried gradually in the shade. This spoilt the file of ths Gin-sent of Ca nata in the only country in the world where it could find a market; and the colonists were i icrely pui:ifhcd for their excessive rapaciousness, by the total loss of a branch of commerce, which, if rightly managed, might have proved a source of opulence. ANOTHER and a surer source for the encouragement of industry, was the working of the iron mines which abound in those parts. The only one that has ever at traced the notice of the Europeans, lies near the town of the Trois Rivieres. It was discovered near the surface of the ground; there are no mines that yield more, and the best in Spairi are not superior to it for the pliability of the metal. A smith from Europe, who came thither in 1739, greatly impro ed the working of this mine, which till then had been but unskilfully managed. From that time no other iron was used in the colony. They even exported some samples; but France would not be convinced that this iron was the bet for fire-arms. The design of using this iron would have been very favorable to the project which, after much irresolution had at last been adopted, of forming a marine establishment in Canada. THE first Europeans who landed on that vast region, found it all over covered with forests. The principal trees were oaks of prodigious height, and pines of all sizes. These woods could have been conveyed with ease down the river St. Lawrence, and the numberless rivers that discharge into it. By an unaccountable fatality, all these treasures were overlooked or despised. At lait the,court
court of Versailles thought proper to attend to them. B O O K They gave orders for erecting docks at Quebec for build V ing men of war, but unfortunately trusted the business to agents, who had nothing in view but their own private interest. THE timber should have been felled upon the hills, where the cold air hardens the wood by contracting its fibres; whereas it was constantly fetched from marshy grounds, and from the banks of the rivers, where the moisture gives it a looser texture, and makes it too rich. Instead of conveying it in barges, they floated it down on rafts to the place cf its destination, where being for gotten and left in the water, it gathered a kind of moss that rotted it. It ought to have been put under sheds when it was landed, but it was left exposed to the fun in summer, to the snow in winter, and to the rains in spring and autumn. From thence it was conveyed into the dock yards, where it again sustained the inclemency of the seasons for two or three years. Negligence or dishonesty enhanced the price of every thing to such a degree, that they got their fails, ropes, pitch and tar from Europe, in a country which, with a little industry, might have sup plied the whole kingdom of France with all these materials This bad management had totally brought the wood of Canada into disrepute, and effectually ruined the re sources which that country afforded for the navy. THE colony furnished the manufactures of the mother country with a branch of industry that might almost be called an exclusive one, which was the preparation of the beaver. This commodity at first was subjected to the bur den and restraints of monopoly, The India company could not but make an ill use of their privilege, and real ly did so. What they bought of the Indians was chief ly paid for in English scarlet cloths, which those people 4 were
B O K were very fond of appearing in. But as they could make XVI. * twenty-five or thirty per cent. more of their commcdilies,in the English settlements than the company chose to give, they carried thither all they could conceal from :hc search of the company's agents, and exchanged their beaver for English clown and india calico. Thus did France, by the abuse of an institution which she was by no means obliged to maintain hole the double adv.lintrge of furnishing materials to some of her Own manufactures, and of securing a market for the produce of some others. She was equally ignorant with rrg-rd to the facility of establishing a while fishery in Canada.,THE ch.eil vices of this fishery are Davis's Streights and Gicenlind. Fifty ships come every year into the former of tSiele latitudes, and a hundred and fifty into the latter. The Dutch are concerned for more than three fourths of them. The rest are fitted out from Bremen Hanl'bcugh and England. It is computed that the whole expence of sting out 2C0 ships, ( f 350 tons bur den upon zn a-;rj^c, mull amount to Ic,sco,ooo li vres.(s) The dt i procure of each is rated at 8o,eco livres:) and co;iL'ecrcntl the whole amount of the sisera cannot be 'cis than 3,2cc,oco liiles.(r) If we deduct scum t.sis the profits of the seamen who devote themselves :o this l; rd and dangerous voyage, ver) little remains fer :th merchants concerned in this trade. THis is-ht has gradually diffused the Bifcayans, who were the raft adventurers in the undertaking. They have not-been succeeded by other Frenchmen, insomuch that the .whs'e smiler has been totally thrown up by that nation, v-.hich of zii others made the grcatftt consumption of blubber, whalebone and Spermatic. Many proposals have been made for refusing it in Canada.,There (J)4375:;o/. (t) 3,50o/. (a) ito,o al.
There was the finest propel of a plentiful fiery in the B 0 0 K,XVI, river St. Lawrence, attended with less d :):er and lets ex pence than at Davis's Straights or Greenland. It has ever been the fate of this colony, that the base schemes relative to it have not bccn brought to bear; and this in par titular, of a w. ac fishery, which would have singularly rouzed the activity of the colonies, a::d would have proved an excellent nursery for feamicil, has never met with the countenance us the government. THE same remissions; has baffled the scheme, so often planned, and two or three times attempted, of fishing for cod on both sides of the river St. Lawrence. Very possibly the success would not have fully answered their expectation, because the fish is but indifferent, and pro per beaches are wanting to dry it. But the gulph would have made ample amends. It abounds with cod, which might have been carried to Newfoundland or Louisburg, and advantageously bartered for the productions of the Caribbee finds anil European commodities. Every thing conspired to promote the property of the settlements in Canada, if they had been seconded by the men who seemed to be the most interested in them. But whence couul proceed that inccr.eCeirc.i le inaction, which suffered them to languish in the same low. condition they were in at first ? IT must be conlfelld son's ohlfacles arose from the very nature of the climate. The river St. Lawrence is frozen up for fix months in the year. At other times it is not navigable by night, on account of the thick fogs, rapid currents, sand-banks, and concealed rocks, which make it even dangerous by day-light, These difficulties increases from Quebec to Montreal to such a degree, that failing is quite impracticable, and rowing so difficult, that from the Trois Rivieres, where the tide ends, the,oars
B 0 0K oars cannot resist the violence of the current, without XVI.,,the assistance of a very fair wind, and then only in the space of a month or fix weeks. From Montreal to the Lake Ontario, travellers meet with no less than fix wa ter-falls, which oblige them to unload their canoes, and to carry them and their lading a considerable way by land far from encouraging man to get the better of na ture, a misinformed government planned none but ruin vous schemes. To gain the advantage over the English in the fur trade, they erected three and thirty forts, at a great distance from c.ch other. The building and victualling of them diverted the Canadians from the only labours that ought to have engrossed their attention. This error engaged them in an arduous and perilous track.,IT was not without some uneasiness that the Indians saw the beginnings of these settlements, which might endanger their liberty. Their suspicions induced them to take up arms, so that the colony was seldom free from war. Necessity made all the Canadians soldiers. Their manly and military education made them hardy, and fearless of danger. Sui emerging from childhood, they would traverse a vast continent in the summer time in canoes, and in winter on foot, through ice and snow. As they had nothing but their gun to procure subsistence with, they were in continual danger of starving; but they were under no apprehensions of fear, not even of falling into the hands of the savages, who had exerted all the efforts of their imagination in inventing tortures for their enemies, far worse than death. THE sedentary arts of peace, and the steady labours of agriculture, had no attraction for men accustomed to an active but wandering life. The court, which forms no,idea
idea of the sweets or the utility of rural life, increased B O O K the aversion which the Canadians had conceived for XV it, by bellowing all their favours and honours upon military actions alone. The distinction that was mostly lavished was that of nobility, which was attended with the most fatal consequences. It not only plunged the Canadians in idleness but also inspired them with an un surmountable turn for every thing that was splendid. Profits which ought to have been kept sacred for the im provement of the lands, were laid out in ornament, and a real property was concealed under the trappings of de firudive luxury. SUCH was the Rate of the colony in 1747, when La origin of,the wars Galiffoniere was appointed governor. He was an able, between resolute and active man ; a man of great steadiness, be the Eng-,lilh and the cause he abed upon sound principles. The Engli French in wanted to extend the limits of Nova Scotia, or Acadia, Canada. as far as the south side of the river St. Lawrence. He thought this an unjust claim, and was determined to con fine them within the peninsula, which he apprehended to be the limits fettled by treaty. Their ambition of in crouching on the inland parts, particularly towards the Ohio, or Fair river, he likewise thought unreasonable. He was of opinion that the Apalachian mountains ought to be the boundary of their possessions, and was fully de termined they should not pass them. His successor, who was appointed whilst he was collecting the means of accomplishing this vast design, entered into his views with all the warmth they deserved. Numbers of forts were immediately ereaed on all sides, to support the system which the court had adopted, perhaps, without foreseeing, or, perhaps, without sufficiently attending to the confequcnces.,AT
B O K AT this period began those hostilities between the Eng- XVI. lish and the French in North America, which were ra-ether countenanced than openly avowed by the respective mother counties. This cl-decline mode of carrying qn the war was perfectly agreeable to the ministry at Ver families, as it afforded Lii opportunity of recovering by degrees, and without exposing their weakness, what they had lost b t retire, it a tire when the enemy had ;In posed their c.wn terres. 'I thee repe-;cd checks at l.fl opened the eves of G(le.t Writ-in, 2nd dilcl.ied the political f2fiem of her rival. George 1i. thou it an equi vocal situation was inctnr, sent wil tie superiority ol his maritime forces. Hfls lag was crdc;cl to inquit the French flag on every fca. The Enil.fil ace idinihgy took or dispersed all the French ships they met wth, :lnd in 1758, steered towards Cape Breton. Conquer THIS island, the key of Canada, had already been at Ct Cape Breton by tacked in 1745, and the e went is of lo singular a nature, the Eng- that it deserves a particular detail. The plan of this first link.,iniafion was laid at Boston, and New England bore the expence of it. A merchant, named Peppered, who had stirred up, encouraged and directed the enthusiasms of the the colony, was intrust with the command of an army of coco men, which had been levied for this expedition. THOUGH these forces, convoyed by a squadron from Jamaica, brought the hist news to Cape Breton of the limner. that threatened them ; though the advantage of a surprize would have secured their landing without opposition though they; hbd but co regular troops to encounter and Co inhabitants hastily armed, the success of the undertaking was still precarious. What great exploits, indeed could be expected from a raw militia, hastily as enabled, who had never seen a fee or faced an energy, and were to acr under the gui ;l!.:. 'cf fa-'fi.c; only.,I'lleie
These unexperienced troops flood in need of the assistance 0 o K,xVI. of rome fortunate incident which they were indeed favour cd with in a singular manner. THE construction and repairs of the fortifications had at all times been left to the imanageimicnt of the garrison of Louifbourg. The soldiers were eager of being em played in these works, which they considered as conducive to their safety, and as a means of procuring a comfortable subsidence. When they found that those who were to have paid them, appropri itch the fruit of their labours to their own ife they demanded justice. It was denied them, and they determined to maintain their right. As there depredations had been lI,:red between the chief per sons of the colony and the subaltern officers, the soldiers could obtain no redress. Their indignation against these rapacious extortioners role to such a height that they de spiled all authority. They had lived in open rebellion for fix months past when the English appeared before the place. THIS was the time to conciliate the minds of both parties, and to unite in the common cause. The soldiers made the first advances; but their commanders mistrusted a generosity of which they themselves were incapable. If there mean oppressors could have conceived it possible that the soldiery could have entertained such elevated no tions as to sacrifice their own resentment to the good of their country, they would have taken advantage of this disposition, and have fallen upon the enemy whilst they were forming their camp and beginning to open their trenches. Besiegers, unacquainted with any military principle, would have been disconcerted by regular and vigorous attacks. The first checks might have been sus ancient to discourage them, and to make them relinquish the undertaking. But it was firmly believed that the soldiers were desirous of falling cut, only that they,might
B O O K might have an opportunity of deserting; and their own XVI. . officers kept them in a manner prisoners, till a defences ill-managed had reduced them to the necessity of ca simulating. The whole island shared the fate of Louis bourg, its only bulwark. THIS valuable possession, restored to France by the treaty of Aix la Chapelle, was again attacked by the English in 1 758. On the ad of June, a fleet of twenty three ships of the line ans eighteen frigates, carrying 16,zoo veterans. anchored in Lazarus bay, within half a league of Louifbourg. As it was evident that it would be to no purpose to land at a greater distance, because it would be impossible to bring up the artillery and other necessaries for a siege, they had bent their whole attention to make the landing impracticable near the town. In the wise precautions that had been taken, the besiegers saw the dangers and difficulties they had to expect, and were not deterred by them; but had recourse to stratagem and while by extending their line they threatened and covered the whole coast, they landed by force of arms at the creek of Cormoran. THIS place was weak by nature. The French had fortified it with a good parapet planted with cannon. Behind this rampart they had posted coo excellent fol tiers and Tome Indians. In front they had made such a close hedge with branches of trees, that would have been very difficult to penetrate, even if it had not been de fended. This kind of palisade, which concealed all the preparations for defence, appeared at a distance to be nothing more than a verdant plain. THIS would have preserved the colony, had the assailants been filtered to complete their landing, and to ad vance with confidence, as ha ing but few obstacles to surmount. Then, overpowered at once by the fire of,the
the artillery and the small arms, they would infallibly have 0 O K perished on the shore, or in the hurry of embarking; the, more as the sea wasjuft then very rough. This unexpected loss might have interrupted the whole pro jet but all the precautions of prudence were rendered abortive by the impetuosity of the Fiench. The English had scarce begun to move towards the shore, when their enemies hastened to discover the snare that was laid for them. By the brisk and hafiz fire that was aimed at their boats, and fill mors by the premature removal of the boughs that masked the forces, which it was so much the interest of the Fiench to conceal, they guessed at the danger they were going to rush into. They immediately turned back, and saw no other place to sect their land ing but a rock, which had been always deemed inaccessible. General Wolf, though much taken up in remarking his troops, and sending off the boats, beckoned to Major Scot to repair thither. THIS officer immediately removed to the spot with his men. His own boat coming up first, and having funkat the very instant he was stepping out, he climbed up the rock alone. He was in hopes of meeting with a hundred of his men who had been sent thither orme hours before. He found only ten. With there few, however, he gained the summit of the rock. Ten Indians and sixty Fiench men killed two of his men, and mortally wounded three. In spite of his weakness, he food his ground under cover of a thicket, till his brave countrymen, regardless of the boistrous waves and the fire of the cannon, came up to him, and put him in full possession of that important post, the only one that could secure their landing. THE Fiench, as Toon as they saw that the enemy had got a firm footing on land, betook themselves to the only remaining refuge, and shut themselves up in Louifbourg.,The
B O O K The fortifications were in a bad condition, because the XVL. , sea sand, which they had teen obliged to use, is by normans fit for toils of n-a;::ry. The excitements of the several curtains were entirely crumbled away. There was only onr caianiate and a fm'il magazine that were bomb proof. The.garriiln vi hic;i wa to defend the Place con. fisted only of 2i,9o mn;. Not ITJH1 TA:NO; NG 1ll titre disadvantages, the be siege were determined to n:ai:e an obstinate resistance. While the ' wee cnpio.ed in defending themselves wish so much firrnrel, the succours they expect from Canada might possibly arrive. At ;ll events this wzs a means of preserving that gte;,t colony from all further invasion for the remainder of the campaign. It is scarce credible that this degree of rc;boution-was supported by the courage of a woman. M madame dc Dr-reurt wEs continually upon the ramparts, with her spur in hier hand; and firing her self three guns ever: davy, eenwed to dispute with the go vernon her hufoD-id the gkl :y of his ofEce. The be siege were no: dilmyred at the ill success of their several sallies, or the masterly operations concerted by Admiral Bofcawen and General Arnherli. It was but at the eve of an assault, which it was impossible to sustain, that they talked of surrendering. They masse an honorable capitulation, and the conductor fhcwcd more respect for his enemy and for himself, than to fully his glory by any aa of barbarity or avarice. The Eng- THE conquest of Cape Breton opened the way into Cnda-. Canada. The very next year the feat of war was re-moved thither, or rather the fines of blocked which had Icng been acted over that immense country were multiplied The cause of these proceedings was this. THE French, fettled in these parts, had carried their ambitious views towards the r.crth, where the finest furs,were
were to be had, and in the greater plenty. When this B 0 0 K,xv'. vein of wealth was exhausted, or yielded less than it did . at first, their trade turned southward, where they discovered the Ohio, to which they gate the name of the Fair river. It laid open the natural communication be tween Canada and Louisiana. For though the (hips that fail up the river St. Lawrence go no further than Quebec, the navigation is carried on in obliges up to lake Ontario, which is only parted from lake Erie by a neck of land, where the French very early built Fort Niagara. It is on this spot, in the neighbourhood of lake Erie, that the source of the river Ohio is found, which waters the finest country in the world, and increasing by the many rivers that fall into it, conveys its waters into the Mississippi. YET the French made no use of this magnificent canal. The trifling intercourse that fubficfld between the two colonies was always carried on by the northern regions. The new way, which was much Shorter and easier than the old, first began to be frequented by a body of troops that were sent over to Canada in 1739, to assist the co tony of Louisiana, which was in open war with the In diana. After this expedition, the southern road was again forgotten, and was never thought of till the year 1753. At that period, several small forts were erected along the Ohio, the course of which had been traced for four years past. The moi considerable of thee forts took its name from governor Duquesne who had built it. THE English colonies could not see without concern French settlements raised behind them, which joined with the old ones, and seemed to surround them. They were apprehensive left the Apalachian mountains, which were conform the natural boundaries between loth nations, should not prove a sufficient barrier 2gainrl the attempts of a reftkfs and warlike neighbour. Prompted by this VOL. IV. L mistrust,
B O K0 miflruf, they themselves passed there famous mountains, XVI.,to dispute the possession of the Ohio with the rival nation. This first step proved unsuccessful. The several parties that were successively sent out, were routed ; and the forts were pulled down as fast as they built them. To put an end to there national affronts, and revenge the disgrace they reflected on the mother country, a large body of troops was sent over, under the command of General Braddock. In the summer of 1755, as this ge neral was proceeding 1o attack soit Duquesne with 36 pieces of cannon and 600 men, he was surprized, with in four leagues of the place, by 250 Frenchmen and 659 Indians, and all his army was cut to pieces. This un accountable mischance put a flop to the march of three numerous bodies that were advancing to fall upon Cana da. The terror occasioned by this accident, made them hasten back to their quarters, and in the next campaign, lI their motions were guided by the molt timorous eau tion. THE French were emboldened by this perplexity, and though very much inferior to them, ventured to appear before Oswego in August 1756. It was originally a for ratified magazine at the mouth of the river Onondaga on the lake Ontario. It flood nearly in the center of Ca nata, in so advantageous a situation, that many works had from time to time been erected there, which had ren tered it one of the capital posts in those parts. It was guarded by 18oo men, with 121 pieces of cannon, and great plenty of stores of all kinds. Though so well sup ported it surrendered in a few days, to the brisk and bold attacks of coo men who were laying siege to it. Is August 1757, 5500 French and 1800 Indians marched up to Fort George, situated on lake Sacra ment, which was july considered as the bulwark of the,Englifi
English settlements, and the rendezvous of all the forces B O 0 K defined against Canada. Nature and art had conspired to , VI. block up the roads leading to that place, and to make all access impracticable. These advantages were further supported by several bodies of troops, placed at proper distances i:z the belt positions. Yet these obstacles were surmounted with such prudence and intrepidity, as would have been memorable in history, had the scene of action lain in a more known spot. The French, after killing or dispersing all the small parties they met with, arrived before the place, and forced the g2r iron, consisting of 2264 men, to capitulate. THIS fiefs disaster rouzed the Fng!ifh. Their generals applied themselves during the winter season to the training up of their men, and bringing the several troops under a proper discipline. They made them exercise in the woods, in fighting after the Indian manner. In the spring, the army, consisting of coco regulars and 13oco militia belonging to the colonies, assembled on the ruins of Fort George. They embarked on lake Sacrament, which parted the colonies of both nations, and marched up to Carillon, disant but four leagues. THAT fort, which had been but lately ereaed on the breaking out of the war, was extensive enough to with Rand the forces that were marching against it. They therefore, quickly formed entrenchments under the can non of the fort, with stems of trees, heaped up one upon another, and in front they laid large trees and the bran chest being cut and sharpened, answered the purpose of chevaux de frise. The colours were planted on the top of ramparts, behind which lay 3500 men. THE English were not dismayed at these formidable appearances, being fully determined to remove the disgrace of their former miscarriages in 2 country where theol 2 prosperity
BO 0 K prosperity of their trade depended on the success of their XVI. ' . , arms. On the 8th of July 1758, they ruffed upon,thcfe pa!!.fadis with the wildest fury. In vain did the French fire upon them from the top of the parapet, .hills they were unable to defend themselves. They feel upon the sharp spikes, and were entangled among the stumps and boughs through which their eagerness had made them russ. All titre hospes served but to increase their furious violence. It continued for upwards of four hours, and cost then above 400o of their brave men be fore they would give up this rash and desperate under taking. THEY were equally unsuccessful in Iceffr actions. They did not insult one post without meeting with a re pulse. Every party they sent out was beaten, and every convoy intercepted. The depth of winter, which ought to'have been their protection, was the very season in which the Indians and Canadians carried fire and sword to the frontiers and into the very heart of the English colonies. ALL these disasters were owing to a sa!.c principle of government. The English. minister had always enter gained a notion that the superiority of their navy was alone sufficient to albert their dominion in America, as it afforded a ready conveyance for succours, and could easily intercept the enemy's forces. THOUGH experience had (hewn the fallacy of these pretensions, the ministry did not even endeavour to di rrinifn the ill effects of them, by the choice of their ge generals. Almotl all those who were employed in this service were deficient in point of abilities znd activity. THE armies were not such as would make amends sot the dcfcts of their commanders. 'The troops indeed were no: wanting in that daring spirit and invincible courage,,which
which is the characteristic of the English soldiers, ari;ng B O O K 'from the climate, alt iii ll moe from the natuic of their government; but these national qualities were counter balanced or extinguished hy the hardships they underwent, hi a country destitute of all the conveniences that Europe affords. As to the militia of the colonies, it was made up of peaceable husbandmen, v.ho were not inured to slaughter, like n.oft of the ItFrcn(h colonists, by a habit of hunting, :rad by military a2jor. To these disadvantages, arising from the nature of things, were added others altogether owing to misconduct The posts ereled fur the safety of til several English settlements, were not so conceived a, to Iupipolt and sill each other. 'I he provinces hating all separate in interests, alit not been uniitd under with a.thlit)y of one head, did not concur in those jilt erfbris, for the good cf the whole, and that ulianninity of :eliiimcnis, which alone can insure the success of their rmcatluie. The 'sasi'n of action was wasted il vain altercations bictwccn tile go errors and the colonists. Every plain of o; erection that ret with opposition from any allen.!by was dlroic d. If 2ny one was agreed iuprln, it \:.is ccstita;:I nla.aie public before tie execution, and by [this ivtis:!i;, i!, they r.;:de it miscarry. Lazily, they were itt irr o:lciiaible enmity with the Indians. 'These nations had always fl, hewn a l iii!e partiality for the French, in i-cturn for the kint:illc they had L h hewn them in sending them missionaries, v.hoim tile confidence rather as ambassadors from the prince, th'ln a> [lnt from Cod. Thhcfe visionaries, by slut! ing r:e Ilngjafe of the savages, conforming to their temper anil inclinations, and putting in practice every attention to gains their con fidei:, h:d acc':ircd al absolute dominions over their rnilds. 'I ht i il. h co.otnilt;, far from cor.lmunicating,L 3 the
B O O K the European manners, had adopted those of the country .TI. they lived in: their indolence in time of peace, their activity in war, and their constant fondness for a wandering life. Several officers of distinction had got themselves incorporated with them. The hatred and jealousy of the English has visit-cf them on this account, and they have not scrupled to af.-:rt that these generous men had given money for the skulls of their enemies, that ;hey joined in the horrid dances that accompany the execution of their prisoners, imitated their cruelties, and partook of their barbarous festivals But th-fe horrid excesses would be better adapted to people who hare substituted national to religious fanaticism, and are more inclined to hate other rations than to lore their own government their strong attachment to the French was productive of the most inveterate hatred against the English. In their opinion of all the European ravages, there were the hardest to tamr.e. Their aversion soon rose to madness; and to a third for English blood, when they found that a reward was offered for their destruction, and that they were to be turned out of their native land by foreign as basins. The same hands which had enriched the English colony with their furs, now took up the hatchet to dc stroy it. The Indians pursued the English with as much eagerness as the. did the wild bcafls. Glory was no long er their aim in battle, their oiy chject was slaughter. They destroyed armies which the French wished only to subdue. Their fury role to such a height, that an English prisoner having been conjured into a lonely habitation the v-oman immediately cut off his arm, and made iibr snipe drink the blood that ran from it. A missionary elfuit reproaching her with the graciousness of the action, she answered him my children must be,wsrrlesrs,
warriors, and therefore they must be fed with th blood of thir B 0 0 K,XVI. anemnis.,SUCH was the state of things, when an English fluctuating of entered the river St. Lawrence in June 1759. No foonerthe Eng- was it anchored at the isle of Orleans, than eight fire-lies. ships were sent off to consume it. Had they executed their orders, not a ship or a man would have escaped; but the captains who conduced the operation were seized with a panic. They set fire to their vessels too soon, and hurried back to land in their boats. The assailants had seen their danger at a distance, but were delivered from it by this accident, and from that moment the conquest of Canada was almost certain. THE British flag soon appeared before Quebec. The business was to land there, and to get a firm footing in the neighbourhood of the town, in order to lay siege to it. But they found the banks of the river bo well in trenched, and so well defended by troops and redoubts, that their first attempts were fruitless. Every landing cols them torrents of blood, without gaining any ground. They had persisted for fix weeks in these unsuccessful en devours, when at last they had the singular good fortune to land unperceived. It was on the 12th of September, an hour before break of day, three miles above the town. Their army, confiding of coo men, was already drawn up in order of battle, when it was attacked the next day by a corps that was weaker by one third. For rome time ardour supplied the want of numbers. At last, French vivacity gave up the victory to the enemy, who had lost the intrepid Wolf their general, but did not lose their con silence and revolutionists was gaining a considerable advantage, but it might not have been decisive. Twelve hours would have been fu.cicnt to collect the troops that were polled with-,L 4 in
B 0 K in a few leagues of the field of battle, to join the van XVI. quashed arrrm, and march up to the conqueror, with force superior to the former. This was the opinion of the French general Montcalm, who bring mortally wounded in the retreat, had time enough before he expired, to think of the ifaety of his men, and to encourage them to repair their diana. This generous motion was over ruled by the council of war. They removed ten leagues off. The Chevalier de Levy, who had hastened from his post to replace Montcalm, blamed this instance of cow article. They were ashamed of it, and wanted to recall it, and make another attempt for victory, but it was too late. Quebec, three parts destroyed by the firing from the snips, had capitulated on the I7th. ALL Europe thought the taking of this place had put an end to the great contes of North America. They never irnmagid that a handful of Frenchmen, in want of eery thing, who seemed to be in a desperate condition, would dare to think of protracting their inevitable fate. They did not know what these people were capable of doing. The! hlsily completed some entrenchments that had been begun tel leagues above Quebec. There they left troops f:iscient to flop the progress of the enemy; and proc-recd to Montreal, to concert measures to can cet ihcir d frace.,IT was there agreed that in the spring they should march out with an armed force against Quebec, to retake it by firp;ifc, or if tht should fail, to besiege it in form. They hid n .thing in readiness for that purpose, but the plan was so concerted, that they should enter upon the undertaking just at the infant uhcn the succours they expect lion France could not slip of coming. 'I Hugh the colony had long been in dreadful want of every thing, the preparative were already made, when,the
the ice, which covered the whole river, began to give O o K way towards the middle, and opened a small canal. They t dragged fonte boats over the he, and flipped them into the water. The army, consisting of citizens and soldiers, who made but one body, and were animated with one foul, sell down this stream, with inconceivable ardor, on the 12th of April 1760. The Inglifli thought they still lay quiet in their winter quarters. The army, already landed, was just come up with an advanced guard of 1500 men, posted three leagues from (Quebec. This party was just upon the point of being cut to pisces, had it not been for one of theol unaccountable incidents, which no human prudence can foresee. A gunner, attempting to shep out of his boat, had fallen into the water. He caught hold of a flake of ice, (imbibed up upon it, and swam down the stream. Ab h-:i:cd by Quebec, close to the flore, he was seen by a ceirt!ijil, who observing a man in defiles, called out fr.r ill. They flew to his assistance, and found hilim nioc.iml f. They knew him by his uniform to be a F'rci, h ll ii r, and carried him to the governor's house, where by the help of spirituous liquors, they recalled him to like for a moment. He just recovered his lptech cnciul;h to tel them that an army of 1o,o0o French \xs last ite g.tcs, and expired. '] he governor imrnicdiate!y dilj.a;cihd orders to the advanced guard to conic within the walls with all expedition. Nutwitthllliding thei - precipitate leircat, the French had time to attack their rear. A lew mrinments later, they would have been defeated, and the city re taken. THE assailants however marched on with an intrepidity which seemed as if they expelled ever) thing from their valour, and thought no more of a surprize. They were within a league of the town, when they were met by a,b.dy
B OO Body of 4ooo men, who were Cent out to tip them. The XVI . E ,. . .onset was sharp, and the resistance obstinate. The English were driven back within their walls, leaving 1800 of their bravest men upon the spot, and their artillery in the enemy's hands. THE trenches were immediately opened before Quebec; but as they had n-.ne but fold-pieces, as no succours came from France, and as a strong English squadron was coming up the river, they were obliged to raise the siege on the 16th of may, 2nd to retreat from post to post, as far as Montreal. Three formidable armies, one of which was come down, and another up the river, and a third proceeded over the lake Complain, surrounded these troops, which were not very numerous at first, and being now exceedingly reduced by frequent skirmishes and continual fatigues, were in want both of provisions and warlike flores, and found themselves surrounded and inclosed in an open place. These miserable remains of a body of 7cco men, who had never been recruited, and had so much signalized themselves, with the help of a few militia and a few Indians, were at lais forced to ca postulate, and for the whole colony. The conquest was confirmed by the trca:v of peace, and this country in creased the positions of the English in North-america. Canada is THIS acquisition of an immense territory is not, how ceded to ever, the only advantage that Great Britain could derive the En lii. .What from. the success of her arms. The considerable popular =dr'atag'" tion tie has found there is of Gill greater importance. ;hcv might derive Some of these numerous, inhabitants, it is true, have fled f:cm that from a ne dominion, which admitted no other difference poficflin.,among men but such as a-one from personal qualities, education, fortune, or the property of being useful to society. But the emigration of these contemptible per fans, whose importance was founded on nothing but bar-barons
barons custom, cannot surely have been considered as a B O 0o misfortune. Would not the colony have been much be refined by getting rid of that indolent nobility that had incumbered it so long, of that proud nobility that kept up the contempt for all kinds of labour? The only things necessary to make the colony prosper, are, that its lands should be cleared, its forests cut down, its iron mines worked, its fisheries extended, its industry and exportations improved. THE province of Canada has been convinced of this truth. And, indeed, notwithstanding the ties of blood, language, religion and government which are usually so strong; notwithstanding that variety of connexions and prejudices which assume so powerful an ascendant over the minds of men; the Canadians have not shewn much concern at the violent separation by which they were detached from their ancient country. They have readily concurred in the means employed by the English ministry to cflablift their happiness and liberty upon a solid foundation THE laws of the English admiralty were first given them. But this innovation was scarcely perceived by them ; because it scarce concerned any except the con queries, who were in possession of all the maritime trade of the colony. THEY have paid more attention to the establishment of the criminal laws of England, which was one of the molt happy circumstances Canada could experience. To the impenetrable mysterious transactions of a cruel in question, succeeded a cool, rational and public trial; a tribunal dreadful and accustomed to shed blood was re placed by humane judges, more disposed to acknowledge innocence than to suppose criminality.,THE
B Took THE conquered people have been still more delighted XVL,on finding the liberty of their persons secured fur ever by the famous law of Habeas Corpus. As they had too long been victims of the arbitrary wills of those who go versed them, they have billet the beneficent hand that drew them from a state of ilavcrv, to put them under the protection of the laws. THE attention of the 'rites, rriniifiry was afterwards taken up in supplying Canada with a code of civil laws. This important work, though intrusted to able, industrious and upright lawyers, hath not yet obtained the sanction of government. If the success anfv.-ers the ex relations, a colony v.ill at lash be found which will have a legislative stein adapted to its climate, its population, and its labours. Independent of these parental views, Great Britain has thought it her political intciefi to introduce, by fe crew springs, among her new subject, an inclination for the customs, the language, the t vorfhi. and tie opinions of the mother country. This kind (.f analogy is, in fat, generally speaking, one of the strongest bands that can attach the colonies to the tother country. But we imagine that the present filtration of things otuhtto have occasioned a preference to another stern. England hus at this time so much reason to be a;;prchenfve of the spirit of independence, which prevails in North-america, that, perhaps, it wot,dI hate been rsorre to her advantage to la;nai;a; Canada in a kind of d.linEt slate from the other p.roiinct%, rather than bhr i them rarer to each other ry anirilies which na. one day unite them too closely. Ho.'EVFR this may be, the British ministry have given the English government to Canada, so far as it was conlitCn-: with an authority entirely regal, and without any mixture of a piaar a'diilrriia:ir n. 'Thc;r,ntcv
new subjects, secure from the fear of future wars, eased B O O I,XVI. of the burthen of defending distant pross, which removed X. them far from their habitations, and deprived of the fur trade which has returned into its natural channel, have only to attend to their cultures. As there advance, their intercourse with Europe and with the Caribbee islands will increase, and Toon become very considerable. It will for the future be the only resource of a vast country, into which France formerly poured immense sums, con filtering it as the chief bulwark of her southern islands. The truth of this political combination, which has been overlooked by so many negotiators, will appear evident, as we proceed to explain the advantages of the English settlements on the continent of Nor:h-America.,END OF TIlE SIXTEENTH BOOK.,BOO K
BooK xvIi.,B O O K XVII. Eng;jih colar.;'s fctt,'d at h'uis :'s Bay, N cwfctnd'and,,iNa - S;i.7, A t W- En la, , w-Yc i, and New-,k First e-':- oE NGLA ND was ont' known in America by her editions of the Conspiracies which were often successful and always brilliant, lish in when Sir Walter Ralegh conceived a prnje& to make North America. his nation partake of the prodigious riches which, soreness a century palt, flowed from that hemisphere into ours. That great man, who v.'as born for bold under takings, carl his eye on the eastern coast of North America. The talent he had of subduing the mind by representing all his proposals in a striking light, soon pro cured him associates, but at court and amongst the mer chants The company that was formed upon the allure ments of his magnificent promises, obtained of govern ment in 15S4 the absolute disposal of all the discoveries that should be made; and without any further encouragement they fitted out two Slips in April following, that anchored in Roanoak ba., which now mAkes a part of Carolina. Their commanders, worthy of the trustees
in them, behaved with remarkable affability in a B 0 0 K country where they wanted to fettle their nation, and Xvi left the savages to make their own terms in the trade they proposed to open with them. EvERY thing that thes successful navigators reported on their return to Europe, concerning the temperature of the climate, the fertility of the soil, and the disposition of the inhabitants, encouraged the society to pro need. They accordingly sent seven ships the following spring, which landed a hundred and eight free men at Roancak, for the purpose of commencing a settlement. Part of them were murdered by the savages whom they had insulted, and the rest, having been so improvident as to neglect the culture of the land, were perishing with misery and hunger, when a deliverer came to their assist ance. THIS was Sir Francis Drake, so famous among sea men for being the next after Magellan who failed round the globe. The abilities he had shewn in that grand ex petition, induced queen Elizabeth to make choice of him to humble Philip II. in that part of his domains which he made use of to disturb the peace of other na tions. Few orders were ever more punctually executed. The English fleet seized upon St. Jago, Cartagena, St. Domingo, federal other important places, and took a great many rich ships. His instructions were, that after there operations, he should proceed and offer his assist ance to the colony at Roanoak. The wretched few, who had survived the numberless calamities that had be fallen them, were in such despair, that they refused all assistance, and only begged he would convey them to their native country. The admiral complied with their request; and thus the expenses that had been disbursed till that time were loft.,THs
B O O K THE associates, however, were not discouraged by this,. unforeseen event. From time to time they sent over a,few colonists, who by the year 1589, amounted to a hundred and city performs of both sexes, under a regular government, and fully provided with all they wanted for their defence, and for the purposes of agriculture and commerce. These beginnings raised some expectations, but they were lost in the disgrace of Ralegh, who sell a victim to the prices of his own wild imagination. l he cooany, having lot its founder, was totally forgotten. IT had been thus neglected for twelve years, when Gofnold, one of the firth associates, resolved to visit it in 1602. His experience in navigation made him suspect that the right track had not been found out, and that in fleering by the Canary and Caribbee islands, the voyage had been made longer than it need have been by above a thousand leagues. These conjectures induced him to fleer away from the south, and to turn more westward. The attempt fuccedcdd; but when he reached the American coast, he found himself further north than any who had gone before. The region where he landed, since included in New-england, afforded him plenty of beau tissue furs, with which he failed back to F england. THE speed and success of this undertaking made a irons impression upon the Eng'ifil merchants. Several joined in i6c6 to form a settlement in the country that Gofnold had discovered. Their example recalled to others the remembrance of Roanoak; and this gave rise to two charter companies. As the continent where they were to exercise their monopoly was then known in England only by the general name of Virginia, the one was called the South Virginia, and the other the North Virginia company.,THE
TriE si: i ze.:i soon abated, and there appeared to be B 0 0 K,XVII. more jca.ul;' tl tin l .mutation between the two companies. Though thlv h:A been hoiiurcd with the shift lottery that ever was drawn iln I-.nl: lh, thir protects was so flow, that in 1614, these were nt ahbte jour hundred persons in both Tirticmerits. That fort oht (cmpc;ltccy which was sufficient for the simplicity of the manners of the times, was then so general in England, that no one was tempted to go abroad by the prospect of a fortune. It is a sense of misfortune, that gives n cl a dislike to their native country, still more than the thirst of riches. Nothing less than an extraordinary ferment could then have peopled even an excellent country. This was at length brought about by superstition, and excited by the collision of re litigious opinions. 'HE fir( lifts of the Britons were the Druids, foThecon-,tinent of famous in the annals of (Gaul. To throw a mysterious America ii veil upon the ceremonies of a fire' e vwcrlhip, their rightslpo°1Pld bY,the religio were never performed but in dark recesses, and generally s,, wars in gloomy groves, where fear creates spears and appal tlitdithutb,°l ~~~~~ ' ° . . . , . England. rations. Only a few persons were initiated into thee mysteries, ant intrusted with the sacred doctrines; and even thes were not allowed to commit any thing to writing upon this important subjef,; left their secrets should fall into the hands of the prophane vulgar. The altars of a formidable deity were stained with the blood of human victims, and enriched with the most precious spoils of war. Though the dread of the vengeance of heaven was the only guard of these treasures, they were always reverenced '-y avarice, which the Druids had art fully repressed by the fundamental doctrine of the endless transmigration of the foul. The chief authority of go vernnment reftlidcl in the ministers of that terrible religion; because men are I;olre powerfully and more lastingly VOL. IV. M fwa cJ
B 0 0 K THE associates, however, were not discouraged by this .r . unforeseen event. From time to time they sent over a,few colonists, who by the year 1589, amounted to a hundred and story persons of both sexes, under a regular government, and fully provided with all they wanted for their defence, and for the purposes of agriculture and commerce. Theft beginnings raised some expectations, but they were lost in the disgrace of Ralegh, who sell a victim to the caprices of his own wild imagination. he colony, having !ois its founder, was totally forgotten.,IT had beer. thus neglected for twelve years, when Gofnold, one of the fill associates, resolved to visit it in 1602. His experience in navigation made him suspect: that the right track had not been found out, and that in fleering by the Canary and Caribbee islands, the voyage had been made longer than it need have been by above a thousand leagues. These conjectures induced him to seer away from the south, and to turn more westward. The attempt succeed d; but when he reached the American coast, he found himself further north than any who had gone before. The region where he landed, since included in New-england, afi'ordcd him plenty of beau tissue furs, with which he failed back to I england. THE speed and success of this undertaking made a strong imprison upon the English merchants. Several joined in 16o6 to form a settlement in the country that Goinold had discovered. Their example recalled to others the remembrance of Roanoak; and this gave rise to two charter companies. As the continent where they were to exercise their monopoly was then known in England only by the general name of Virginia, the one was called the South Virginia, and the other the North Virginia cornany.,THE
The :fil zc;:l soon abated, and there appeared to beB O O K,XVII. more jcahlul tint tea emulation between the two companies. . Though tir! h.A! been si olurd with the first lottery that ever was drawn ins ]gliini, their progress was so flow, that in 1614, the we re not above lour hundred persons in both ft.'lemcnth. That fort ost ,(mprcitrcy which was sufficient tor the simplicity of the manners of the times, was then to general in England, that no one was tempted to go abroad by the prospect of a fortune. It is a sense of misfortune, that gives n:cm a Jifiike to their native country, still more than the thirst of riches. Nothing less than an extraordinary ferment could then have peopled even an excellent country. This was at length brought about by superstition, and excited by the collision of re litigious opinions. THE firlI priests of the Britons were the Druids, o Tllecon-,· tient of famous in the annals of (aut. To tlhow a myltcriousAmerica is veil upon the ceremonies of a f wage v.orihip, their ri htsp eopld by,te ceemniso s- the rdigi- were never performed but in dark recesses, and general lys was in gloomy proves, where fear creates spectres and appal tlhtdisturb,r . * . . , ^ England. rations. (son! a few persons were initiated into there hysteric, ans ilitrufcd with the sacred doctrines; and even these were not allowed to commit any thing to writing upon this important subject ; left their secrets should f;.! into the hands of the prophane cigar. The altars of a formidable deity were stained with the blood of human victims, and enriched with the moos precious spoils of war. Though the dread of the vengeance of heaven was the or.y guard of there treasures, they were always reverenced 1'' avarice, which tie Druids had art fully repressed by the fundamental divine of the endless transmigration of the foul. The chief authority of go government reid d in the miuifiiers of that terrible religion; bet!eulO men aie sole powerfully and more lastingly VOL. IV. M fwa)Se
B3 O OK swayed by opinion than by any other motive. The edu- XVII.,cation of youth was in their hands; and the ascendency tin' assumed at that period remained through the rest of life. 'They took cognizance of all civil and criminal causes, aid were as absolute in their decisions on state affairs as on the private differences between man and man. Whoever dared to resist their decrees, was not only ex eluded from all participation in the divine mysteries, but even from the society of men. It was accounted a crime and a reproach to hold any converse or to have any deal kings with him; he was irrevocably deprived of the pro section of the laws, and nothing but death could put an end to his miseries. The history of human superstitions affords no instance of any one so tyrannical as that of the Druids. It was the only one that provoked the Roman! to use severity, as none opposed the power of those con. queries with such violence as the Druids. THAT religion, however, had lost much of its in fluence, when it was totally banished by christianity ii the seventh century. The northern nations, that hai successively invaded the southern provinces of Europe had found there the feeds of that new religion, in th ruins of an empire that was falling on all sides. Whether it was owing to their indifference for their distant gods or to their ignorance which was easily persuaded, the readily embraced a worship which from the multiplicity of its ceremonies, could not but attract the notice of rut and savage men. The Saxons, who afterwards invade England, followed their example, and adopted without difficulty a religion that secured their conquest by abolish ing the old forms of worthip.,THE effects were such as might be expected from a r lotion, the original simplicity of which was at that tin so much disfigured. Idle contemplations were soon substitute
liituteJ in lieu of active and social virtues; and a stupid B 0 0 K,XVII veneration for unknown faints, to the worship of the , supreme Being. Miracles dazzled the eyes of men, and diverted them from attending to natural causes. They were taught to believe that prayers and offerings would atone for the moi heinous crimes. Every sentiment of reason was perverted, and every principle of morality corrupted. THOSE who had been at least the promoters of this con fusion, knew how to a ail t themselves of it. The priests obtained that respect which was denied to kings; and their persons became sacred. The magistrate had no in section 'over their conduct, and they even evaded the watchfulness of the civil law Their tribunal eluded and even superceded all others. They found means to in produce religion into every question of law, and into all state affairs, and made themselves umpires or judges in every cause. When faith spoke, every one listened, in silent attention, to its inexplicable oracles. Such was the infatuation of those dark ages, that the scandalous excesses of the clergy did not weaken their authority. THIS was owing to its being already founded on great riches. As soon as the priests had taught that religion, depended principally upon sacrifices, and required first of all that of fortune and earthly positions, the nobility who were sole proprietors of all estates, employed their slaves to build churches, and allotted their lands to the endowment of those foundations. Kings gave to the church all that they had extorted from the people; and stripped themselves to such a degree, as even not to leave a sufficiency for the payment of the army, or for defray ing the other charges of government. These deficiencies were never made up by those who were the cause of them. They bore no (hare in the maintenance of society. The,MA 2 payment
B O O K payment of taxes with church money would have been a XVII.,sacrilege, and a prostitution of holy things to profane purposes. Such was the declaration of the clergy, and the laity believed them. The possession of the this, pr.t of the feudal tenures in the kingdom; the free wis offerings of a deluded people, and the price fct upon tir pricitlv offices, did not sati fy the enormous avidity of the clergy, ever attentive to their own interest. They found in the old testament that by divine appointment the priest had an undoubted right to the tithes of the produce o the land. This clam was so readily admitted, that the, extended it to the tithe of industry, of the profits or trade, of the wages of labourers, of the pay of soldiers and sometimes of the salaries of policemen. ROME, who at fist was a silent spectator of there pro meetings, and proud,. enjoyed the success that attende the rich and haughty-polls of a Sa hour born in oh fcurirv, and who died an ignominious death, soon covet ed a fh ar in the spoils of England. The first shep si took was to open a trade for relics, which were always ushered in with fr n.e striking miracle, and sold in prt portion to the credulity of the purchasers. The gre; men, and even monarchs, were invited to go in pilgrim age to the capital of the world, to purchase a place i hca.en suitable to the rank they held on earth. TI popes by degrees assured the presentation to church pn ferments, which at first they gave away, but afterward sold. By these rr.2ns, their tribunal took cognizance, a'! ecclesiastical cauifs, and in time they claimed a tens of the revenues of the clergy, who themselves levied tl tenth of all the substance of the realm. When these pious extortions were carried as far as ths portly c¢u!d be in England, Rome aspired to the si prime authority over it. 'She frauds of her ambitir,we
were covered with a sacred veil. She sapped the foundation O O K ons of liberty, but it was by employing the influence of, X i. opinion only. This was setting up men in opposition to themselves, and availing herself of their prejudices, in order to acquire an absolute dominion over tncm. She usurped the power of a defpoticji;dge between the altar and the throne, between the prince and his subjects, be tween one potentate and another. She kindled the flames of war with her Spiritual thunders. But l:e wanted emissaries to spread the terror of her arms, and made choice of the monks for that purpose. The secular clergy, notwithstanding their celibacy, which kept them from worldly connections, had still an attachment to the world by the ties of interea:, often stronger than those of blood. A fct of men, secluded from society by singular institutions which must incline them to fanaticism, and by a blind submission to the dictates of a foreign pontrii; were heft adapted to second the views of filch a sovereign. These vile and abject tools of superstition fulfilled their fatal employment but too successfully. With their in tribes, seconded by favourable occurrences, England, which had so long withstood the conquering amis of the ancient Roman empire, became tiibut::y to modern Rome. AT length the passions and violent caprices of Henry VIII. broke the Scandalous dependence. I he abuses so infamous a power had already opened the eves of the na tion. The prince ventured at once to shake otf the au authority of the pope, abuiifh moni:icrne,, and attune the fu)prciacy over his own church. THis open schism was followed h! other alterations in the reign of Edward, Ion and successor to Henry. The telig;os opinions, which were then changing the face of LEIIope, wcec openly discussed. Something was taken vim 3 from
B O O K from every one; many doctrines and rites of the old re i ' legion were retained; and from these several f'ftcms or,tenets, arose a new communion, distinguished by the name of the church of England. ELIZABETH, who completed this important work, found theory alone too subtle, and thought it most ex pediment to'captiv;te the senses, by the addition of lome ceremonies. Her natural taste for grandeur, and the de fire of putting a flop to the disputes about points of doctrine, by entertaining the eye with the external parade of worship, made her inclined to adopt a greater number of religious rites. But fne was restrained by political con operations, and was obliged to sacrifice something to the prejudices of a party that had raised her to the throne, and was able to maintain her upon it.,FAR from fufpectingthat James I. would execute what Elizabeth had not even dared to attempt, it might be ex peaeld that he would rather have been inclined to restrain ecclesiastical rites and ceremonies. That prince, who had been trailed up in the principles of the prelb trials, a sec, who sith much spiritual pride, affected great simplicity of dicti, gravity of manners, and austerity of doctrine, ziid loved to speak in scripture phrases, and to make ufM cf none but scripture names for their children. One would h-sve supposed that such an education must have prejudiced She king against the outward pomp of the catholic w-.rfi:i, and ever) thing that bore any affinity to it. But the spirit off stem prevailed in him over the principles of education. Struck with the episcopal jurisdiction vi-ici the found established in England, and Which he thought conformable to his own notions of civil aocrl:nmcnt, he abandoned from condition theeariy irnprci.ons he had received, and grey passionately fond of a hierarchy modelled upon the political ceconomy of swell
well constituted empire. In his enthusiasm, he wanted o O K,XVII. to introduce this wonderful discipline into Scotland, his . I native country, and to unite to it a great many of the English, who fill dissented from it. He even intended to add the pomp of the most awful ceremonies to the ma jelRic plan, if he could have carried his grand projects into execution. But the opposition he met with at first setting out, would not permit him to advance any further in his fallen of reformation. He contented himself with re commending to his fen to resume his views, whenever the times should furnish a favourable opportunity; and re presented the presbyterians to him as alike dangerous to religion and to the throne. CHARLES readily adopted his advice, which was but too conformable to the principles of despotism he had imbibed from Buckingham his favourite, the most cor rapt of men, and the corrupter of the courtiers. To pave the way to the revolution he was meditating, he promoted several bishops to the highest dignities in the government, and conferred on them not of the offices that gave the greatest influence on public measures. Those ambitious prelates, now become the matters of a prince who had been weak enough to be guided by the inclinations of others, betrayed that ambition so familiar to the clergy, of railing up ecclesiastical jurisdiction un der the shadow of the royal prerogative. They multi plied the church ceremonies without end, under pretence of their being of apostolical inflitution, and to inforce their observance, had recourse to royal hats of arbitrary power. It was evident that there was a settled design of restoring, in all its splendour, what the protestants called Romish idolatry, though the moR violent means should be necessary to compass it. This prose gave the more umbrage, as it was supported by the prejudices and in-,M 4 tribus
B OO K tribes of a presumptuous que::e, who had brought trois XVII. 'france an :mode pfiin for p3pely and ari !tray powa-r. IT can france be imagined . hat acriiro!nv their alarm ing suspicions had talmud in the ,lids of the people. Common prudence would have allowed time for the ser met to subside. But ;re lp:r:t of fanatical made choice of those troublesome times to recall every thing to the unity c the church of EnlaiinJ, which .as become more odious to ths dinner,, since so many customs had been introduced into it which they considered as super factious. An order was i'iedl, that both kitid(c;ms should conform to the worship and difcpilire of the episcopal church. Ths, law included the rl-,bytcrians, who then began to be c. :rid puritans, because they professed to take the pure and ir.ile v.ord ot God for the rule of their faith and trace. It v. as e,;tencd likewise to all the foreign C:.;i;:.is t wat were in the kingdom, whatever c;.crer.cz th.c r might be in their opinions. This hie march-cr:h D w.r.s e.ioiiied to the regiments, and trad irn camp. ::s'-, that were in the fever! countries in Liu ro-e. LT ::'.:, the English ambassadors were required to ler;arate :c. wd rocinmmnion with the foreign protestant, io that : P .:,d loll a;l tl]e eilul i a d ao t add, ad the head aid support ot tis Ilorniltion.,I-: th: ;'a;, crisis, Ir.c Lcf th piiaitais werCI disidc d bc-tvwcrn ,ihmi.i:in and oppositions. Thole who would neither i oj t.'. il, nor take the pains to ;emily, turned their vi'::s :rc:u rJs ^r;r:h-An.crica, to seek fe r that civil 2n.' roscius h:r:y which their ungrateful country de - d th'e:.r ] he enemies of their peace attempted to n.lrt this r er 'e t a-aini v these devout fugitives, who want ed to worship God in their own way il a defeat land. Light ':n,-. :h : lav at anchor its the T'Ihaies ready to,i!il,
fail, were stopped ; and Cromwell is Laid to have been B 0 0 K detained there by that very king, wh.iil he afterwards ,x . brought to the scaffold, Enthusiasm, however, stronger than the rage of persecution, surmounted every obstacle; and that reason us America was loon filled with presbyterians Tale comfort they er; yet in their retreat, gradually induced all thei: of their party to follow them, who were not atrocious enough to take delight in thole dreadful catastrophes which loon alter made England a scene of blood and horror. Many were afterwards in duce to remove thither in more peaceable times, with' a view to advance their fortunes. In a word, all Europe contributed greatly to increase depopulation Thou sands of unhappy men, oppreflic by the tyranny or in tolerant spirit of their cress, took refuge in that hemisphere. Let us now endeavour to acquire some in formation respecting that country. IT is surprising that for so long a t.;me, so little should Parallel,between have been known of the new world even after it was tithe void rind covered. Barbarous soldiers and rapacious merchants tie lne wcie not proper pcrlnas to give us sui and clear notions of this hall of the Universe, It was the province cf philosophy alone to avail hill's f f te inlt;irmatinas caltter- cd in the accounts of voyagers and missionaries, in order to see America luihl as nature hath made it; and to investigate its affinity with the rest of the globe. Ir is now pretty certain that the new continent has not half the extent of surface as the old. ()n the other hand, the form of both is ob singularly alike, that we might easily be reduced to draw consequences from this particular, if it were not always right to be upon our guard against the spirit of iffiem which often flops us in our researches after ttrth, and hinders us from at gaining to it.,THE
B O O ;. THE two continents seem to form as it were two broad XVII. . vi, ships of land that begin from the arctic pole, and terminate at the tropic of Capricorn, parted on the eaR and weft by the Ocean that surrounds them. Whatever may be the structure of these two continents, and the balance or symmetry of their form ; it is plain their equilibrium does not depend upon their position. It is the inconstancy of the sea that makes the solidity of the earth. To fix the globe upon its basis, it seemed necessary to have an element which, floating incessantly round our planet, might by its weight counterbalance all other substances, and by its fluidity restore that equilibrium which the con flic of the other elements might have overthrown. Wa ter, by the motion that is natural to it and by its gravity likewise, is infinitely better calculated to keep up that harmony and that balance of the several parts of the globe round its center. If our hemisphere has a very wide extent of land to the North, a mass of water of equal weight at the opposite part will certainly produce an equilibrium. If under the tropics we have a rich country covered with men and animals; under the same latitude America will have a sea full of fish. Whilst so rests of trees, bending under the largest fruits, the most enormous quadrupeds, the most populous nations, elephants and men press cn the surface of the earth, and seem to absorb all its fertility throughout the torrid zone; at both poles are found the vwh.:!es with innumerable multitudes of cods and herrings, v.ith clouds of infects, and all the infinite and prodigious tribes that inhabit the seas, as if to support the axis of the earth, and prevent its inclining or deviating to either side; if, however, elephants whales or men can be said to have any weight on a globe, where all living creatures are but a transient recitation of the earth that composes it. In a word,,the
the ocean rolls over this globe to fashion it, in conforms 0 0 K ty to the general laws of gravity. Sometimes it covers X and sometimes it uncovers a hemisphere, a pole or a zone; but in general it seen to asse. t more particularly the equator, as the cold of the poles in lome measure takes off that fluidity which constitutes its essence, and imparts to it all its action. It is chiefly between the tropics that the Tea spreads and is in motion, and that it undergoes the'greateft change both in its regular and periodical motions, as well as in those kinds convulsions occasionally excited in it by tempestuous winds. The attraction of the fun, and the fermentations occasioned by its continual heat in the torrid zone, must have a very remarkable influence upon the ocean. The motion of the moon adds a new force to this influence, and the sea, to yield to this double impulse, must, it should seem, flow towards the equator. The flatness of the globe towards the poles can only be ascribed to that great extent of wa ter that has hitherto prevented our knowing any thing of the lands near the South pole. The lea cannot easily pass from within the tropics, if the temperate and frozen zones are not nearer the center of the earth than the tor rid zone. It is the sea then that constitutes the equilibrium with the land, and disposes the arrangement of the materials that compoTe it. One proof that the two regular sips of land which the two continents of the globe present at first view are not essentially necessary to its con formation, is, that the new hemisphere has remained co vexed with the waters of the sea, a much longer time than the old. Besides, if there is a visible affinity be tween the two hemispheres, there may be differences be tween them as striking as the similitude is, which will destroy that :p:pcfcd harmony we flatter ourselves that we h-11l find.,WHEN
B OO K WHEN we co!:Cder the map of the world, and see then . local correspondence there is between the isthmus of Suez,and that of Panama, between tie cape of Good Hope and cape Horn, between the Archipelago of the Earl-Indies and tlh.t of the Leeward ifs ends, and between the mountains of Chit: ard these of .lnomotapa; we are struck with the f.nilaritv of the several fcrn.s this picture pre tents. Very where v.-e imagine we fte land opiate to land, water to water, fiends and peninsula tattered lby the hand of n.atre tr serve as a ccxuliterpoifo, and the sea by its fiuciaion cont. v nain:ialilm the balance of the whole. But if on the other hard x'v ce spare the great extent of the Pacific Ocean, which pails the East and \'Weft Indies, with the ima!l space the Ocean occupies between the coast of Guinea and that of Brazil; the wait quantity of inih-bi:eJd larn to the North, with the little we know towards the South; the Direction of the mountains of Tartary' and Europe, which is from East to Weft, with that of the Cordeliers which run from North to South; the mind is at a find, and we have the mortification to iee the older and symmetry ranibh with which we had embe-l'iined our fitlem of the earth. The observer is still more dilpcaib:i uwi;h his conjectures, when he confider the immrnli- hc- 'ht cf the mountains of Peru. Then, indeed, he is li;.;;.i;.ed to Ice a continent so high and io lately d;lcro; :rd. the tea lo far bc!ow its tops, and ib ;ececrt! come. down from the lands thl.t I'cc:ed to be cf i':t.uaii d-fended fire. its attacks by those tremendous bulwarks. It is, ho:'.vecr, an undeniable sac, that both ccntmi.;rs cf the news han;ifphcre hate been covered with the fe. The ie and the an :id confirm this truth the broad and long rircrs of America; the immense forests to the South; the fpia;icus lakes and vaiR mnreaffcs to the North; the eternal fino', c between the ht:ri:ics; fewv,of
ns those pure finds that seem to be the remains of an ex B O O K,XVII. hauled ground; no men entirely black; very fair people under the line ; a con! and mild air in the same latitude as the riitrv and uniihabii'ilce parts of Africa; a frozen and revere climate under the same parallel as our tempe rate climates; and lastly, a difference of ten or twelve degrees, in the temperature of the old and new hemispheres these arc to many tokens cf a world that is fill in its infancy. WHY fluid the continent cf America be so much warmer and so much colder in proportion than that of Fur,,pe, if it were not for the mroliflur the ocean has left behind, by quitting it long a :ter cur continent was peopled ? Nothing but the lea can possibly have prevented Mexico from being inhabited as early as Asia. If the waters that till moisten the bowels of the earth in the new hemisphere had not covered its surface, man would very early have cut down the woods, drained the fens, consolidated a soft and watery soil, by stirring it up, and exposing it to the rays of the fun, opened a free passage to the winds, and raised dikes along the rivers: in short, the climate would have been'totally altered bv this time. But a rude and unpeopled hemisphere denotes a recent world ; when the sea, rolling in the neighbourhood of its coasts, still flows obscurely in its channels. 'The fun less scorching, more plentiful rains, and thicker ,nd more stagnating vapours, betray either the decay or the in fancy of nature.,TIHE difference of climate, arising from the waters having lain so long on the ground in America, could not but have a great influence on men and animals. From this diversity of causes, must necessarily aris a very great diversity of cfficIts. Accordingly we see more species of animals by two thirds, in the old continent than in the,new;
BOO Knew; animals of ths same kind considerably larger; X . fiercer and more savage monsters, in proportion to thereafter increase of mankind. On the other hand, nature seems to have strangely neglected the new world. The men have less strength and less courage; no beard and no hair; they are degraded in all the tokens of manhood; and but little susceptible of the lively and powerful senti ment of love, which is the principle of every attachment, the first instinct, the first band of society, without which all the other factitious ties have neither energy nor dura. tion. The-omen, who are fill more weak, are neither favourably treated by nature nor by the men, who have but little love for them, and consider them as the instruments that are to furnish to their wants; they rather sacrifice them to their own indolence, than consecrate them to their pleasures. This indolence is the great delight and supreme felicity of the Americans, of which the women are the victims by the continual labours imposed upon them. It must, however, be conferred that in America, as in all other parts, the men, when they have sentenced the women to work, have been so equitable as to take upon themselves the perils of war, together with the toils of hunting and wishing. But their indifference for the sex, which nature has intruded with the care of repro during the species, implies an imperfection in their or guns, a fort of state of childhood in the people of America as in those of our continent, who are not yet ar rived to the age of puberty. This is a radical vice in the other hemisphere, the novelty of which is discovered by this kind of imperfection but if the Americans are a new people, are they a race of men originally distinct from those that cover the face of the old world ? This is a question which ought not to be hastily decided. The origin of the populations
of America is involved in inextricable difficulties. If we B 0 0 K assert that the Greenlanders first came from Norway, and XVI. then went over to the coast of Labrador; others will tell us it is more natural to suppose that the Greerlanders are sprung from the Esquimaux, to whom they bear a greater resemblance than to the Europeans. If we (hould sup pose that California was peopled from Kamtfchatka, it may be asked what motive or what chance could have led the Tartars to the north-west of America. Yet it is imagined to be from Greenland or from Kamtfchatka that the inhabitants of the old world muff have gone over to the new, as it is by those t'"o countries that the two continents are connected, or at least approach nearest to one another. Besides, how can we conceive that in America the torrid zone can have been peopled from one of the frozen zones? Population will indeed spread from north to south, but it must naturally have begun under the equator, where life is cherished by warmth. If the people of America could not come from our continent, and yet appear to be a new race, we muff have recourse to the flood, which is the source and the solution of all difficulties in the history of nations.,LET us suppose that the sea having overflowed the other hemisphere, its old inhabitants took refuge upon the Apalachian mountains, and the Cordeleras, which are far higher than our mount Ararat. But how could they have lived upon those heights, covered with snow, and surrounded with waters ? How is it possible that men who had breathed in a pure and delightful climate, could have survived the miseries of want, the inclemency of a taint, ed air, and those numberless calamities, which mull be the unavoidable consequences of a deluge? How will the race have been preserved and propagated in those times of general calamity, and in the succeeding ages of a languid existence ?
B 0 0 K existence? In defiance of all these obstacles, we must Xviii allow that America ha, been peopled by there wretched remains of the great c:'fi.tion. Every thing carries the vestiges of a ma.-!dv, of which the human race still feels the effects. The ruin of that world is still imprinted on its inhabitants. They-re a t fpccis of men degraded and degenerated in their natural constitution, in their stature, in their way of life, and in their understandings, which have made so little Frc:rcfs in ail the arts of civilization. A damper air, aid a more nariliv ground, muff ne cefinriiy infect the very roots and feeds both of the sub distance and multiplication of mankind. It must have required some ages to rclrorc population, and still a great er number before the ground could be fettled and dried, so as to be fit for tillage, and for the foundation of build kings. The earth muff necessarily be purified before the air could clear, and the air muff be clear before the earth could be rendered habituate. The imperfection therefore of nature in America is not a proof of its recent origin, but of its regeneration. It was probably peopled at the same time as the other hemisphere, but may have been overflown later. The large scil bones that are found under ground in America, shew tli.t it formerly had elephants rhinoceros, and other enormous quadrupeds, which have since dia-appeared from thole regions. T he gold and filer mines that arc found just below the fur face, are signs of a very ancient revolution of the globe, but later than those that have overturned our hemisphere. Suppose America had, b- some means or other, been repeopled by our roving lords, that period would be so remote, that it would still give great antiquity to the in habitants of that hemisphere. Three or four centuries will no: then be sufficient to allow for the foundation of the empires of Mexico and Peru i for though we find no,trace
trace in these countries of our arts, or of the opinions B 00 K,xvII. ;ard cufrom(,s that prevail in other parts of the globe, yet . we have found a police an l a society established, inventions and plr:cices which, though they did not shew any marks of times anterior to the delr;", )et they implied a long fel-is of ages subsequent to this catastrophe. For, though in Mexico, as in ' egypt, a country surrounded with waters, mountains, and other invincible obstacles, niufl hae fury d the mien ill'lofed in it to unite after a time, th'.iIh they might at first live in altercations and in continual and bloody wars; yet it was only in process of time that they could invent and cll.blifli a worship and a legislation, which they could nor, possibly, have borrowed from remote times or countries. The finale art of fpectli, and that of writing, though but in hieroglyphics required more ages to tr'iin pulp an unconnected nation th.,t neuf have created ct.thi title arts, than it would take up days to perfect a child in both. Ages bear not the same proportion to the whole race as years do to individu ls. The former is to occupy a vast field, both as to space and duration, while the other has only fume moments or infants of time to fill up, or rather to run over. The likeness and uniformity observable in the sea turns and manners of the American nations, plainly flew that they are not so ancient as those of our conti went which differ Io much from each other; but at the same time this circumstance seems to confirm that they did not proceed from an' foreign hemisphere, with which they have no kind of affinity that can indicate an immediate descent.,VIIATEtVER may be the case with regard to their ori-C^0"l'3'i-,£on be ?p;n or their antiquity, which are both uncertain, a norct,,,, ci interesting l/,djct of iniquity, y erica, is, to determine cv'iit 11 brother thief untutored ;:ctit:s ::c. :notre or isis h.:,; )sol a'd;, Vo IV. N thin
B 0 O K than our civilized people. Let us, therefore, examine,, whether the condition of rude man left to mere animal 'iinint, whose day which is spent in hunting, feeding, pro during his species, and reposing himself, is the model of all the rest of his days, is better or worse than the condition of that wonderful being, who makes his bed of down, fins and weaves the thread of the silk-worm to clothe himself, has exchanged the cave his original abode, for a palace, and has varied his indulgences and his wants in a thousand different ways. IT is in the nature of man that we must look for his means of happiness. What does he want to be as happy as he can be ? Present subsistence; and, if he thinks of futurity, the hopes and certainty of enjoying that blessing The savage, who has not been driven to the frigid zones, is not in want of this first of necessaries. If he lays in no flores, it is because the earth and the sea are reservoirs always open to supply his wants. Fish and game are to be had all the year, and will make up for the deficiency of the dead seasons. The savage has no close houses, or commodious fire-places; but his furs an fewer all the purposes of the roof, the garment and the ose. He works but for his own benefit, sleeps when he is weary, and is a stranger to watchings and restless sr;ihs. War is a matter of choice to him. Danger, liKe labour, is a condition of his nature, not a profession annexed to his birth, a duty of the nation, not a family bc,.ldae. The salvage is furious but net melancholy; and his counticni,,;e felons bears the impression of thole pi;r:rns anti disorders to'at lea such fhcckin and fatal marks on ours. He cannot feel the want of what he does not desire, nor can he desire v.hat he is ignorant of. M'-lf of the conveniences of life are remedies for evil he docs not fcc. ,;eai'urcs .re a relief to appetites which,.51;
are not excited in his senSations. He seldom experiences B 0 O K any of that hcarincts that arises from unsatisfied defile, or that emptiness and uneasiness of mind that is the off spring of prejudice and vanity. In a word, the savage is subject to none but natural evils. BUT what greater happiness than this does the civilized man enjoy ? His food is more wholesome and deli cate than that of the savage. He has lester clothes, and a habitation better secured against the inclemency of the weather. Beat the common people, w ho are to be the basis and object of civil society, these numbers of men who in all States bear the burden of hard labour, can not be said to live happy, either in those empires where the consequences of war and the impersonation of the po lice has reduced them to a state of slavery, or in those governments where the progress of luxury and policy has reduced them to a fate of servitude. The mixt govern ments Sometimes afford tome sparks of happiness, found ed on a shadow of liberty; but this happiness is purchased by torrents of blood, which repel tyranny for a time only to let it fall the heavier upon the devoted nation, sooner or later doomed to oppression. Let us but observe how Caligula and Nero have revenged the expulsion of the Tarquin and the death of Caesar. TYRANNY, we are told, is the work of the people, and not of kings. But if so, why do they sussex it? Why do they not repel the encroachments of despotism; and while it employs violence and artifice to enslave ail the faculties of men, why do they not oppose it with all their powers ? But is it lawful to murmur and complain under the rod of the oppressor? Will it not exasperate and provoke him to pursue the lircim to death? 1 he cries of servitude he calls rebellion, and they are to be stifled in a dungeon, and sometimes on a scaffold. Then 2 man
B o o K man who sci uld after the rights of min, would pcrith in XX11 neg'tc and ;nf.'mv. Tyranny, :hi;crUct, nmu-. be en-endured, under the name of authority. IF so to .that outrages is not the civilized man exposed' If hc is p.:i'ed of any property, he knows not how far he may call it his owe, wh he h-.uli, divide the produce bet.-ccn the courtier who ida attack his elate, the law vyr who must be p.: i fur tca.hling him how to preserve it, the l;.,dir :hou naw ly it waite, ad .the collector who cones tea lely unlimited taxes. if he has no property, how ran he be alui;rel of a permanent lfbfliience ? What species of industry is there cud a.ainlf the vicissitudes of fortune, and the encroachments of government?,i:n the forests of America, if there is a scarcity in the north, the savages bei.i their course to the south. The wind or the fun w-ill drive a wandering clan to more temp Ferzae climates. Between the g-tes and bars that slut up our civilized states, if famine, war, or pestilence should c.mfu:r.c an empire, it i; a cri:;n where all mus c:pecl to perish in misery, (or in the horrors of fighter. The man who is unfortunately born there muff endure all ex to-tons, all the severities, that the inclemency of the fears and the inj;f.iee of government may bring upon him. I:; cur province', the vassal, or free mercenary digs and ploughs the whole )car round', on Lands that are not his own, and skhole produce does not belong to him, and ha is even happy, if his assiduous labour procures him a fire of the cri js he has sown and reaped. Observed and h3rrafi.d lo' a hard and rct'ci; landlord, who grudges him the ver ftr.-v on v.thich he regis his weary limbs, the wretch is daily exposed to diseases wvhilh joined to his pot ertv, m ake him vi l si or d at'l, rather than for an expense cure, ;o'iovcd by illl-n;i:;cs and toil. Whether tenants
or subject, he is doubly a slave ; if e has a fiacre;, his B 0 0 K,XVII. lord comes and gathers where he has not , vin; if he is ., worth but a yoke of oxen or a pair of ho: ec, the mull go v.iLh them upon services; it he has nothing hbt his person, the prince takes him f r a lIhlier. Very where he meets with mailers, and alw\.:s with cpprcfficn.,IN our cities, the works n ain th artis who have e.fi'lifhmn:enrs are at th mercy ofgrecd and idle mailers, who by the privily of monrpsoy have pu chalked of go government a pier of nla kin: inJd.lir, w, rk fl r nothing, and of felling its labours :at ia veil high Price. The lover class have no more than the fight hrs that luxury of which th e are dn,,ibly the vitimlii, Ib the .etchings and tf: hues it occasional then', an;.l Iv the i '! :lznl:' of the pomp that mortifies and tramples ulpo t;l.ln.,EVEN flpp(fling tht the d.n.crous labour of our quarries, minnie acn forges, iitl ai! time arts that are per formed by site, and itt t p:e:il of i:.av ig.tioii aid com mere were Ifs pernicious li than the rc;'ng ife of the savages, who live upon hl!in;g and fi.!iig: liippof that men who are ever la;:nr!:!it tile folrcr .s ;ind a.i'rcnts that arilc merely r from pinion, are leis unhappy theft the savages, wvlo never flihc, a tear ill the miiit of the most excruciating tortures; there would fill remain a wide difference between the fate es the civilir.cdl man and the wild Indian, a hrs' venice entirely to the disadvantage of social life. 'Isis is the iitjuithc thi.t rt.iins in the partial di relation f fortl:iis and df.iticns; an inequality v.lii: is at once the e l a:l.d the cause of oppression IN wails does Caution, lipreiuice, igilor.micc ali! heard la soul dupes tie l:'':.er ctIaf of mankind, 1i; as to render then i:!tl ,!i?!e cf Ih],ir degradations; neither religion nor r:nor-iity :! 'i hr '(r thlic' from feeing and f-cling the in-,N 3 justice
B OO 0 justice of political order in the distribution of good a:d,evil. How often have we heard the poor man expostulating with heaven, and asking what he had done, that he shou'd deserve to be born in an indigent and dependent fiction. Even if :eat conflicts were inseparable from the more exalted tat.lns, v.h:ch might be sufficient to balance ali the advantages and ll the superiority that the social slate claims over the ft-t^ cf nature, frill the obscure man, who is unacquainted with those conflict, fees no thing in a high rant, but that affluence which is the cause of his own poverty. He envies the rich man those pleasures to which he is To accustomed, that he has lost all relish for them. What domestic can h.-ve a real as section for his master, or what is the attachment of a servant ? was ever any prince truly beloved by his cour tiers, even when he was hated by his fuijeis ? If we prefer our condition to that of the savages, it is because civil life has made us incapable of bearing some natural hardships which the savage is more exposed to than we are, and because we are attached to feme indulgences that custom has made necessary to us. Even in the vigour of life, a civilized man may accustom himself to live among savages, and return to the slate of nature. We have an instance of this in that Scotchman who was cast away on the island of Hernandez, where he lived alone, and was happy as soon as he was so taken up with supplying his wants, as to forget his own country, his language, his name, and even the utterance (;f words. After four years, he felt himself eased of the burden of social life, when he h. d io!t a'l reflection or thought of the palt, and all anxiety for the future lastly, the consciousness of independence being one of the first witling in man, he who enjoys this primitive right, with a moral certainty of a competent subsistence,,is
is incomparably happier than the rich man, refrained by B O 0 K,XVII. laws, matters, prejudices and fashions, which incessantly remind him of the lots of his liberty. To compare the slate of the savages to that of children, is to decide at once the question that has been so warmly debated by philosophers, concerning the advantages of the state of nature and that of social life. Children, notwithstanding the restraints of education, are in the happiest age of human life. Their habitual cheerfulness, when they are not under the schoolmaster's rod, is the surest indication of the happiness they feel. After all, a single word may determine this great question. Let us ask the civilized man whether he is happy; and the savage whether he is unhappy. If they both answer in the negative, the dispute is at an end. CIVILIZED nations, this parallel mutt certainly be mor trying to you: but you cannot too strongly feel the weight of the calamities under which you groan. The more painful this sensation is, the more will it awaken your attention to the true causes of your sufferings. You may at last be convinced that they proceed from the confusion of your opinions, from the defefs of your po political constitutions, and from capricious laws, which are in continual opposition to the laws of nature. AFTER this inquiry into the moral slate of the Americans let us return to the natural state of their country. Let us see what it was before the arrival of the English, and what it is become under their dominion. THE first Europeans who went over to fettle English n what,· Rate the colonies, found immense forests. The vail trees thatEnglif, grew up to the clouds, were so encumbered with creeping tu"id,North plants, that they could not be got at. The wild beasts America,, made these woods still more inaccessible. They met only and what,.th ey have with a few savages, clothed with the (king of those mon donc thec,,N 4 steps.
B O O K steps. The human race, thinly scattered, fled from each . other, or pursued only with intent to destroy. 'I he earth seemed useless to man, and its powers were not exerted Ib much for his support, as in the breeding of animals, more obedient to the laws of nature The earth produced every thing at pleasure without affiance and without direction; it yielded all its bounties with uncontrouled profusion for the benefit of all, not for the pleasures or conveniences of one Species of beings. The rivers now glided freely through the forests, now spread themselves quietly in a wide morass, from whence issuing in various firearms, they formed a multitude of islands, encompassed with their channels. The spring was restored from the spoils of autumn. The leaves dried and rotted at the foot of the trees, supplied them with fresh Tap to enable them to hoot out new blossoms. The hollow trunks of trees afforded a retreat to prodigious flights of birds. The sea, arising against the coasts, and indenting the gulphs, threw up (coals of amphibious monsters, enormous whales, crabs and turtles, that sported uncontrolled on the desert shores. There nature exerted her plastic power, incessantly producing the gigantic inhabitants of the ocean, and asserting the freedom of the earth and the fLa. BUT man appeared, and immediately changed the face of North America. He introduced symmetry, by the as distance of all the instruments ot art. The impenetrable woods were instantly cleared, and made room for com odious habitations. The wild beasts were driven away, and flocks of domestic animals supplied their place; whilst thorns and briars made way tor rich harvests. The wa terms forsook part of their domain, and were drained off into the interior parts of the land, or into the lea, by deep canals. The coats were covered with towns, and the,bays
bays with ships; and thus the new world, like the old, B 0 0 K,XVII. became subject to man. What powerful engines have V railed that wonderful structure of European industry and policy ? Let us resume the particulars. In the remotest part stands a solitary object, distinct from the whole, which is called Hudioll's bay.' THIS bay, of about ten degrees in length, is formed Climate of,Hudlbn's by the ocean in the distant and northern parts of Ames bny, and rica. The breadth of the entrance is about fix leagues, cultnscf,its inhabit it is only to be attempted from the beginning of July tents. to the end of September, and is even then extremely Tradecar-,ried on dangerous. This danger arises from mountains of ice, there. some of which are Said to be from 15 to 18 hundred feet thick, and which having been produced by winters of five or fix years duration in little gulphs constantly filled with snow, are forced out of them by north weft winds, or by some other extraordinary cause. The best way of avoid ing them is to keep as near as possible to the northern coast, which must necessarily be lets obstructed and mols free by the natural directions of both winds and currents. THE north-west wind, which blows almost constantly in winter, and very often in summer, frequently raises violent storms within the bay itself, which is rendered fill more dangerous by the number of shoals that are found there. Happily, however, small groups of islands are met with at different defiances, which are of a sufficient height to afford a better from the storm. Besides these small Archipelagoes, there are in many places large piles of bare rock, but except the Alga Marina, the bay produces as few vegetables as the other northern leas. Throughout all the countries surrounding this bay, the fun never riles or sets without forming a great cone of light, this phenomenon is succeeded by the Aurora Bo-realms,
B O O Borealis, which tinges the hemisphere with coloured rays of .X . such a brilliancy, that the splendour of them is not effaced even by that of the full moon. Notwithstanding this, there is seldom a bright sky. In spring and autumn, the air is always filled with thick fogs, and in winter, with an infinite number of small icicles. THOUGH the heats in the summer are pretty considerable for fix weeks or two months, there is seldom any thunder or lightning, owing, no doubt, to the great number of sulphureous exhalations, which, however, are sometimes set on fire by the Aurora Borealis; and this light flame consumes the barks of the trees, but leaves their trunks unrouched-,OSE of the effects of the extreme cold or fioow that prevails in this climate, is that of turning those animals white in winter, which are naturally brown or grey. Nature has bestowed upon their all, soft, long andthick furs, the hair of which falls off as the weather grows milder. In most of these quadrupeds, the feet, the tail, the ears, and generally speaking all those parts in which the circulation is flower, because they are most remote from the heart, are extremely short. Wherever they happen to be something longer, they are proportionably well covered. Under this heavy sky, all liquors become solid by freezing, and break whatever vessels contain them. Even spirits of wine loses its fluidity. It is not uncommon to see fragments of large rocks loosened and detached from the great mass, by the force of the frost. All these phoenomena, common enough during the whole winter, are much more terrible at the new and full moon, which in these regions has an influence upon the weather, the causes of which are not known. IN this frozen zone, iron, lead, copper, marble, and a substance resembling Tea coal, have been discovered.,In
In other respects, the soil is extremely barren. Except B O o I,XVII. the coasts, which are for the most part marshy, where,. . there grows a little grass and some soft wood, the well of the country offers nothing but very high moss and a few weak shrubs very thinly scattered. Tilts sterility of nature extends itself to every thing. The human race are few in number, and scarce any of its individuals above four feet high. Their heads bear the same enormous proportion to the rest of their bodies, as those of children do. The smallness of their feet makes them aukward and tottering in their gait. Small hands and a round mouth, which in Europe are reckoned a beauty, seem almost a deformity in these people, because we see nothing here but the effects of a weak organization and of a cold, that contract and restrains the springs of growth, and is fatal to the progress of animal as well as of vegetable life. Besides this, all their men, though they have neither hair nor beard, have the appearance of being old. This is partly occasioned from the formation of their lower lip, which is thick, fleshy, and projecting beyond the upper. Such are the Esquimaux, which in habit not only the coast of Labrador, from whence they have taken their name, but likewise all that trac of country, which extends itfelffrom the point of Belle-isle to the most northern parts of America. THE inhabitants of Hudson's bay have, like the Green landers, a flat face with short but not flattened noses, the pupil yellow and the iris black. Their women have marks of deformity peculiar to their sex, amongftothers very long-and flabby breaths. This defect, which is not natural, arises from their custom of giving fuck to their children till they are five or fix years old. The children pull their mothers breasts with their hands, and almost suspend themselves by them.,IT
B OO0 K IT is not true that there are razes of the Esquimaux XVIL,L entirely black, as has been since supposed, and afterwards accounted for, nor that they live under ground. How should they dig into a soil, which the cold renders harder than stone? How is it pcffbie they should live in caverns where they would be infallibly drowned by the F£rr melt ing of-the flows ? What, however, is certain and al most equally surprising is, that they spend the winter under huts run up in haste, and made of flints joined to gather with cements of ice, where they live without any other fire but that of a lamp hung up in the middle of the shed, for the purpose ofdrefiing their game and the fi-h they feed upon. The heat of their blood, and of their breath, added to the vapour arising from this small same, is sufficient to make their huts as hot as stoves. THE Esquimaux dwell constantly near the sea, which supplies them with all their provisions. Both their con situation and complexion partake of the quality of their food. The fitIL of the teal is their food, and the oil of the whale is their drink, which produces in them all an olive complexion, a strong smell of fish, an oily and te various swear, and sometimes a fort of scaly leprosy. This last is, probably, the reason why the mothers have the same custom as the bears of licking their young ones this nation, weak and degraded by nature, is not withstanding most intrepid upon a sea that is constantly dangerous. In boats made and Covet together like to many Borachios, but at the same time so well closed, that it is impossible for the water to penetrate them, they fol low the shoals of herrings through the whole of their polar emigrations, and attack the whales and seals at the peril of their li-cs. One fireke of the whale's tail is efficient to drown a hundred of them, and the feal is armed with teeth to devour those he cannot drown, but,the
the hunger of the Esquimaux is superior to the rage ofB O O K,XVII. there monsters. They have an inordinate whilst for the whale's 9il, which is necessary to preserve the heat in their stomachs, and defend them from the severity of the cold. Indeed ,whales, men, birds, and all the quadrupeds and fifi of the north are supplied by nature with a degree of fat which prevents the muscles finn freezing, and the blood from coagulating. Every thing in these arctic re lions is either oily or gummy, and even the trees are resinous. THE Esquimaux are notwithstanding fillet to two fatal disorders, the scurvy and the lull of fight. The continuation of the flows on the ground, joined to the reverberation of the rays of the fun on the ice, dazzle their eyes in such a manner, that the), are alios( con flatly obliged to wear shades made of very thin wood, through which small apertures for the light have been bored with fish-bones. Doomed to a fix-months night, they never see the fun but obliquely, and then it seems rather to blind them than to give them light. Sight, the most delightful blessing of nature, is a fatal gift to them, and they are generally deprived of it when young. A still more cruel evil, which is the scurvy, confines them by flow degrees. It insinuates itself into their blood, changes, thickens and impoverishes the whole mass. The fogs of the sea, which they inspire, the dense and in elastic air they breathe in their huts, which are shut up from all communication with the external air, the con tinged and tedious inactivity of their winters, a mode of life alternately roving and sedentary, every thing' in short, serves to increase this dreadful illness; which in a little time becomes contagions, and spreading itself throughout their habitations, is hut too probably transmitted by the means of generation.,NOT-
B O O K NOTWIrTH Standing these inconveniences, the Efqui- XVII. ,I. maux is so passionately fond of his country, that no in-inhabitant of the molt favoured spot under heaven quits it with more reluctance than he does his frozen deserts. One of the reasons of it may be that he finds it difficult to breathe ill a softer and cooler climate. The sky of Amsterdam, Copenhagen, and London, though con flatly obscured by thick and fetid vapours, is too clear coran Esquimaux. Perhaps too, there may be Something in the change of life and manners still more contrary to the health of savages than the climate. It is not im possible but that the indulgences of an European may be a poison to the Esquimaux. SUCH were the inhabitants of the country discovered in 1610 by Henry Hudson. This intrepid mariner in searching after a north-west passage to the south-seas, discovered three streights, through which he hoped to find out a new way to Asia by America. He failed boldly into the midst of the new gulph, and was .preparing to explore all its parts, when his treacherous (hip's company put him into the long-boat, with seven others, and left him without either arms or provisions exposed to all the dangers both of sea and land. The barbarians who re fused him the necessaries of life could not, however, rob him of the honour of the discovery; and the bay which he first found out will ever be called by his name. THE miseries of the civil war which followed soon after, had, however, made the English forget this distant country, which had nothing to attract them. More quiet times had not yet brought it to their remembrance, when Grofeillers and Madison, two French Canadians, who had met with some discontent at home, informed the English who were engaged in repairing the mischiefs of discord, by trade, of the profits arising from furs, andros
of their claim to the country that furnished them. Those 0 0 K who proposed the business shewed so much ability, that. X% they were intruded with the execution, and the first establishment they formed succeeded so well that it surpassed their own hopes as well as their promises. THIS success alarmed the French, who were afraid, and with reason, that most of the fine furs which they got from the northern parts of Canada, would be car cried to Hudson's bay. Their alarms were confirmed by the unanimous testimony of their Coureurs de Fois, who since 1656, had been four times as far as the borders of the freight. It would have been a desireable thing to have gone by the same road to attack the new colony; but the distance being thought too considerable, notwithstanding the convenience of the rivers, it was at length . determined that the expedition should be made by sea. The fate of it was trusted to Grofeillers and Radiflbn, who had been easily brought back to a regard for their country. THESE two bold and restless men failed from Quebec in 1682, upon two vessels badly fitted out, but on their arrival, finding themselves not strong enough to attack the enemy, they were contented with erecting a fort in the neighbourhood of that they thought to have taken. From this time there began a rivallhip between the two companies, one fettled at Canada, the other in England, for the exclusive trade of the bay, which was constantly fed by the disputes it gave birth to, till at las, after each of their settlements had been frequently taken by the other, all hostilities were terminated by the treaty of Utrecht, which gave up the whole to Great-Britain.,HuDsoX's bay, properly speaking, is only mart for trade. The severity of the climate having destroyed all the corn sown there at different times, has frustrated,every
B 0 o K every hope of agriculture, and consequently of popula-.,tion. Throughout the whole of this extensive chaff, there are not more than ninety'. or a hundred soldiers, or favors, comprized in four bad forts, of which York fort is the principal. Their business is to receive the furs which the neighbouring savages bring in exchange for merchandise, of which they have been taught the value and use. THOUGH these skins are of much more value than those which come out of count ses not so far north, yet they are cheaper. The savages give ten beaver skins for a gun, two for a pound of powder, one for four pounds of lead, one for a hatchet, one for fix knives, two for a pound of glass beads, fix for a cloth coat, five for a pet throat, and one for a pound of snuff. Combs, looking glasses, kettles and brandy sell in proportion. As the beaver is the common measure of exchange, by another regulation as fraudulent as the sift, two otter's. shins and three martins are required instead of one beaver. Be sides this tyranny, which is authorised, there is another which is at leal tolerated, by i which the savages are con iantly defrauded in the quality, quantity, and measure of what is given them; and the fraud amounts to about one third of the value. Faoas this regulated system of imposition it is easy to guess that the commerce of Hudson's bay is a monopoly. The capital of the company that is in possession of it was originally no more than 241,500 livres,(w) and has been successively increased to 2,380,500 livres (x) This capital brings them in an annual return of forty or fifty thouSand skins of beavers or other animals, upon which they make so exorbitant a profit, that it excites the jealousy and clamours of the nation. Two thirds of there beautiful (.u) 1o;5651. izs. 6d. (x) o10,i461. ass. 6d.
beautiful furs are either consumed in kind in the three O O K,XVII. kingdoms, or made use of in the national manufactures. The rest are carried into Germany, where the climate makes them a valuable commodity. BUT it is neither the acquisition of there savage riches, Whether,there is a .nor the still greater emoluments that might be drawnpaffage at from this trade, if it were made free, which have fixed Hudson's,bay leading the attention of England as well as that of all Europe the Eat upon this frozen continent. Hudson's bay always has dies? been and is still looked upon as the nearest road from Europe to the East-Indies, and to the richest parts of Asia. CABOT was the sirs who entertained an idea of a north-west passage to the South-seas; but his discoveries ended at Newfoundland. After him followed a crowd of English navigators, many of whom had the glory of giving their names to savage coasts which no mortal had ever visited before. These bold and memorable expeditions were more brilliant than really useful. The most fortunate of them did not ever furnish a fresh conjecture on the end that was proposed. The Dutch, less frequent in their trials, less animated in the means by which they pursued them, were of course not more successful, and the whole began to be treated as a chimera, when the discovery of Hudson's bay rekindled all the hopes that were nearly extinguished. AT this period the attempts were renewed with fresh ardour. Those that had been made before in vain by the mother country, now taken up with her own intestine commotions, were pursued by New England, whose si tuition was favourable to the enterprize. Still, how ever, for rome time there were more voyages undertaken than discoveries made. The nation was a long time kept in suspence by the different accounts of the advent VOL. IV. 0 turners
B 0 O Usurers divided amongst themselves. While force main. .=, attained the possibility, others the probability, and others again asserted the certainty of the passage the accounts they gave, instead of clearing up the point involved it in still greater darkness. Indeed, these accounts are so full of obscurity and confusion, so many things are concealed. in them, and they display such visible marks of ignorance and want of veracity, that with the utmost desire of de citing, it is impossible to build any thing like a solid judgment upon testimonies so suspicious. At length, the famous expedition of 1746 threw some kind of light upon a point which had remained enveloped in darkness for two centuries past. But upon what grounds have the later navigators taken up better hopes ? What are the experiments on which they found their conjectures ? Let us proceed to give an account of their arguments. There are three facts in natural history, ,which hence forward must be taken for granted. Tie first is, that the tides come from the ocean, and that they extend more or less into the other seas, in proportion as their channels communicate with the great reservoirs by la.gei or (smaller openings; whence it follows, that this periodical motion is scarce perceptible in the Mediterranean in the Baltic, and in other guiphs of the same nature A second matter of fact is, that the tides are much late and much weaker in places more remote from the ocean than in those which are nearer to it. The third fa is that violent winds, which blow in a direction with th tides, make them rise above their ordinary boundaries and that those which blow in a contrary direction rear the motion of the tides, at the same time that they dii nisi their fwel.,FROM there principles, it is most certain that if Hud son's bay were no more than a gulph inclosed between
two continents, and had no communication but with the 0 O K,XVII. Atlantic, the tides in it would be very inconsiderable;. they would be weaker in proportion as they were further removed from the source, and they would be much less strong wherever they had to resist opposite winds. But it is proved by observations made with the greatest Skill and precision, that the tides are very high throughout the whole of the bay. It is certain that they are higher toward. the bottom than even at the very mouth of the bay, or at least in the neighbourhood of it. It is proved that even this height increases whenever the wind blows from a corner opposite to the streight; it is, therefore, certain that Hudson's bay has a communication with the ocean, besides that which has been already found out. THOSE who have endeavoured to explain these very striking fans, by the supposition of a communication of Hudson's bay with Baffin's bay, or with Davis's streights, are evidently mistaken. They would not scruple to al low it, if they only considered that the tides are much lower in Davis's freights, and in Baffin's bay, than in Hudson's. BuT if the tides in Hudson's bay can come neither from the Atlantic ocean, nor from any other northern sea, in which they are constantly much weaker, it fol lows that they must come from some part in the South sea. And this is fill further apparent from another leading fact, which is, that the highest tides ever ob served upon there coasts are always occasioned by the north-west winds, which blow directly against the mouth of the streights. HAVING thus determined, as much as the nature of the subject will permit, the existence of this passage so long and so vainly wised for, the next point is to find our in what part of the bay it is to be expected. Every 2 thing
B O 0 K thing inclines us to think that the attempts hitherto XVIL, made, without either choice or method, ought to be di read towards Welcome bay, on the western coast. First, the bottom of the sea is found there at the depth of about eleven fathom, which is an evident sign that the water comes from fie ocean, as such a transparency is incompatible either with the waters discharged from rivers, or with melted snow or rain. Secondly, the currents keep this place always free from ice, whilst all the rest of the bay is covered with it; and their violence cannot be accounted for but by supposing them to come from some western sea. Lastly, the whales who towards the latter season always go in search of the warmest climates, are found in great abundance in these parts towards the end of the summer, which would seem to indicate that they have a way of going from thence to the south seas, not to the northern ocean. IT is probable, that the passage is very short. All the rivers that empty themselves into the western coast of Hudson's bay are small and flow, which seems to prove that they do not come from afar; and that consequently the lands which part the two seas are of a small extent. This argument is strengthened by the height and regula city of the tides. Wherever there is no other difference between the times of the ebb and flow, but that which is occasioned by the retarded progression of the moon in her return to the meridian, it is a certain sign that the ocean from whence those tides come is very near. If the pas sage is Short, and not very far to the north, as every thing seems to promise, we may also presume that it is not very difficult. The rapidity of the currents observable in these latitudes, which do not allow any cakes of ice to continue in them, cannot but give fume weight to this conjecture.,THE
THE discoveries that still remain to be made are of so B 0 0 K,XVII. much importance, that it would be folly to give them X up. If the passage so long fought for were once found, communications would be opened between parts of the globe which hitherto seem to have been separated by na ture from each other. They would soon be extended to the continent of the south seas, and to all the numerous islands scattered upon that immense ocean. The inter course which has subsisted nearly for three centuries be tween the commercial nations of Europe, and the most .remote parts of India, being happily freed from the in conveniences of a long navigation, would be much brisker, more constant, and more advantageous. It is not to be doubted that the English would be desirous of securing an exclusive enjoyment of the fruits of their activity and expences. This with would certainly be very natural, and would be very powerfully supported. But as the advantages obtained would be of such a nature, that it would be impossible always to preserve the sole possession of it, we may venture to foretell that all na tions must in time become partakers of it with them. Whenever this happens, both the streights of Magellan and Cape Horn will be entirely deserted, and the Cape of Good Hope much less frequented. Whatever the consequences of the discovery may be, it is equally for the interest and dignity of Great-britain to pursue her at tempts till they are either crowned with success, or the impossibility of succeeding is fully demonstrated. The resolution (he has already taken in 1745 of promising a considerable reward to the seamen who Shall make this important discovery, though it be an equal proof of the wisdom and generosity of her councils, is not alone sus ancient to attain the end supposed. The English ministry cannot be ignorant that all the efforts made either by go-,0 3 government,
B 0 O Government, or individuals, will prove abortive, till such XVII .,. time as the trade to Hudson's bay (hall be entirely free. The company in whose hands it has been ever since 1670, not content with neglecting the chief object of its institution by taking no steps itself for the discovery of the North-west passage, has thrown every impediment in the way of those who from love of same, or other motives, have been prompted to this great undertaking. Nothing can ever alter this iniquitous spirit, for it is the very spirit of monopoly. Defcrippt- HAPPILY the exclusive privilege which prevails at Hud onofNew- on's bay, and feenis to exclude all nations from the means foundling. o , oa,,of acquiring knowledge and riches, does not extend its oppression to Newfoundland. This island, situated be tween 46 and 52 degrees of north latitude, is separated from the coast of Labrador only by a canal of moderate breadth, known by the name of Belleifle freights. It is of a triangular form, and a little more than three hundred leagues in circumference. We can only speak by conjecture of the inland parts of it from the difficulty of penetrating far into it, and the apparent inutility of succeeding in the attempt. The little that is known of this streight, is that it is full of very sleep rocks, mountains covered with bad wood, and some very narrow and sandy valleys. These inaccessible places are flocked with deer, which multiply with the greater ease, from the fe purity of their situation. No savages have ever been fen there except some Esquimaux, who come over from the continent in the hunting season. The coast abounds with creeks, roads and harbours; is sometimes covered with moss, but more commonly with small pebbles, which seem as if they had been placed therewith design, for the purpose of drying the fish caught in the neighbourhood. In all the open places, where the flat stones rcflec the,fun's
fun's rays, the heat is excessive. The rest of the gpqcotryBX 0 0 K is intensely old ; leis so however from its situation, than X from the heights,' the forests, the winds, and above all the vast mountains of ice which come out of the northerly seas, and are stopped on these coasts. The sky towards the north and western parts is constantly serene, it is much less so towards the east and south, both of them being too near the great bank, which is enveloped in a perpetual fog. THIS island was originally discovered in t497, by the Venetian Cabot, at that time in the service of England, who made no settlement there. It was presumed from the several voyages made after this, with a view of ex mining what advantages might be derived from it, that it was fit for nothing but the cod fishery, which is very common in that sea. Accordingly the English used to send out at first small vessels in the spring, which re turned again in Autumn, with their freight of fill, both salt and fresh. The consumption of this article became almost universal, and there was a great demand for it, particularly among the Roman catholics. The English availed themselves of this superstition, to enrich them selves at the expence of the clergy, who had formerly drawn their wealth from England, and thought of form ing settlements there. The first that were established at great intervals frorro one another, were unsuccessful, and were all forsaken Coon after they were founded. The first that acquired any confidence was in 1608, the success of which raised such a spirit of emulation, that with in forty years, all the space between Conception bay, and cape Ras, was peopled by a colony amounting to above four thousand fouls. Those who were employed in the fishery, being forced both from the nature of their oc occupations, an] that of the soil to live at a distance from,0 4 each
BOOK each other, cut paths of communication through the * .- ,-woods. Their general rendezvous was at St. John's,,where in an excellent harbour, protected by two mountains at a very small distance from each other, and large enough to contain above two hundred flips, they used to meet with privateers from the mother country, who car cried off the produce of their fishery, and gave them other .necessaries in exchange for it.,THE French did not wait for this prosperity of the English trade, t3 turn their thoughts to Newfoundland. They had for a long time frequented the southern parts of the sand, where the Malouins in particular came every year to a place they had called the Petit Nord. After this some of them fixt without order upon the coast from cape Ray to Chapeau Rouge, and at length they became numerous enough to form something like a town in the bay of Placentia, where they had every convenience that could make their fiery successful. BEFORE the bay is a road of about a league and a half in breadth, not however sufficiently sheltered from the N. N. WV. winds, which blow there with extreme violence. The streight which forms the entrance of the bay is so confined by rocks, that only one vessel can enter at a time, and even that must be towed in. The bay itself is about eighteen leagues long, and at the extremity of it there is an exceeding safe harbour which holds 150 ships. Notwithstanding disadvantage of such a position for securing to France the whole fishery of the southern coast of Newfoundland, yet the ministry of Versailles paid very little attention to it. It was not till 1687 that a small fort was built at the mouth of the streight, in which a garrison was placed of about fifty men. TILL this period, the inhabitants whom necessity had fixed upon this barren and savage coast, had been happily,forgotten;
forgotten; but from that time began a system of oppression B 0 0 K which continued increasing every day from the rapacious. XI ness of the successive governors. This tyranny, by which the colonists were prevented from acquiring that degree of competency that was necessary to enable them to pur sue their labours with success, must also hinder them from increasing their numbers. The French fishery, therefore, could never prosper as that of the English. Notwithstanding this, Great Britain did not forget at the treaty of Utrecht, the inroads that had so often been made upon their territories by their enterprizing neighbours, who, supported by the Canadians accustomed to expeditions and to the fatigues of the chace, trained up in the art of bush-fighting and exercised in sudden attacks, had fe vernal times carried devastation into her settlements. This was sufficient to induce her to demand the entire possession of the island, and the misfortunes of the times obliged the French to submit to this sacrifice; not however with out reserving to themselves not only the right of fishing on one part of the island, but also on the Great Bank, which was considered as belonging to it. THE fish which makes these latitudes so famous, is the Fiffherjes,leftablifhed cod. They are never above three feet long, and often at New less, but there are none in the whole ocean whose mouth founding. is so large in proportion to their size, or who are so voracious Broken pieces of earthen ware, iron and glass are often found in their bellies. The stomach, indeed, does not digest these hard substances, as it hath long been thought, but it hath the power of inverting itself, like a pocket, and thus discharges whatever loads it. THE cod fish is found in the northern seas of Europe. The fishery is carried on by thirty English, fiery French, and 150 Dutch vessels, one with another from 80 to hoo tons burden. Their competitors are the Irish, and es-specially
B O O K specially the Norwegians. The latter are employed be XVIL fore the filling season, in collecting upon the coat the,eggs of the cod, which is a bait necessary to catch pilchards They sell, communion annie, from twenty to twenty-two thousand tons of this fil, at nine livres) per ton. If it could be disposed of, a great deal more would be caught; for an able naturalist, who has had the patience to count the eggs of one single cod, has found 9,344,000 of them. This profusion of nature must still be increased at Newfoundland, where the cod fill is found in infinitely greater plenty. THE fish of Newfoundland is also more delicate, though not so white; but it is not an object of trade when fresh, and only serves for the food of those who are employed on the fishery. When it is salted and dryed, or only salted, it becomes a useful article to a great part of, Eu rope and America. That which is only salted is called green cod, and is caught upon the great bank. THIS flip of land is one of those mountains formed under water by the earth, which the sea is continually washing away from the continent. Both its extremities terminate so much in a point, that it is difficult to assign the precise extent of it, but it is generally reckoned to be 160 leagues long and 90 broad. Towards the middle of it on the European side is a kind of bay, which has been called the ditch. Throughout all this' space, the depth of water is very different; in some places there are only five, in others above sixty fathom. The fun scarce ever shews itself there, and the sky is generally co vexed with a thick cold fog. The waves are always agi stated, and the winds always impetuous around it, which must be owing to the fca being irregularly driven forward by currents, which bear sometimes on one side, some-times (x) 71. lod. halfpenny.
times on the other, and strike against the borders which B 0 0 K are every where perpendicular, and repel them with equal Xiv violence. This is most likely to be the true cause, be cause on the bank itself, at some distance from the coat, it is as quiet as in a bay, except when there happens to be a forced wind which comes from a greater distance. FROM the middle of July to the latter end of August there is no cod found either upon the great bank or any of the finally ones near it; but all the rest of the year the fishery is carried on. 1 he ships employed in it are com monty from 50 to 150 toni, and carry not left than twelve or more than twenty-five men aboard. These fishermen are provided with lines, and before they set to work, catch a fifi called the caplin, which is a bait for the cod. PREVIous to their entering upon the fishery, they build a gallery on the outside of the ship, which reaches from the main mast to the stern, and sometimes the whole length of it. This gallery is furnished with barrels, of which the top is beaten cut. The fishermen place them selves within these, and are sheltered from the weather by a pitched covering fastened to the barrels. As soon as they catch a cod, they cut out its tongue, and give it to one of the boys to carry to a person appointed for the purpose, who immediately shrikes off the head, plucks out the liver and entrails, and then lets it fall through a small hatchway between the decks; when another man takes it, 'and draws out the bone as far as the navel, and then lets it fink through another hatchway into the hold; where it is salted and ranged in piles. The person who faits it, is attentive to leave salt enough between the rows of fish which form the piles, to prevent their touch ing each other, and yet not to leave too much, as either excels would spoil the cod.,IN
B O O K IN the right of nature, the fishing upon the great bank ought to have been common to all mankind; notwithstanding which the two powers who have colonies in North America, have made very little difficulty of ap propagating it to themselves; and Spain, who alone could have any claim to it, and who from the number of her monks might have pleaded the necessity of asserting it, entirely gave up the matter at the last peace; since which time the English and French are the only nations who frequent these latitudes. IN 1768, France sent out 145 ships, the expence of which is valued at 2,547,co0 livres.(z) These vessels which carried in all 8,830 tons, were manned by 1700 men, who upon an average, and according to calculations ascertained by being often repeated, must have caught each 700 fish; so that the whole of the fishery must have produced i,19o,ooo. THESE cod are divided into three separate classes, the first consists of those which are twenty-four inches in length or upwards, the second comprehends those which measure from nineteen to twenty-four, and the third takes in all that are under nineteen inches. If the fishery has yielded as it commonly does two fifths of good fish, two fifths of moderate fish, and one fifth of bad, and if the fish has been sold at the common price, which is 150 livres) the hundred weight, the produce of the whole fishery will amount to i,o5o,ooo livres.(b) The hundred weight is composed of 136 cod of the first quality, and of 272 of the second; which two forts taken to gather sell for 180 livres) the hundred. Only 136 cod are required to make up the hundred weight of the third class, but this hundred weight fells only for one third of,the (z) 111,4.31L. . (a) 61. Is 3d. (6) 45,9371. sos (c) 7,. zI7. 6d.
the other, and is worth only 60 livres,(d) when the first is B 0 0 K,XVII. worth 80o.(e). Consequently the ,190o,000 cod really ,. caught and reduced in this manner, make only 700,000 cod, which at 150 livres) the hundred weights which is the mean price of the three forts of fill, will produce only 1,o5o,ooo livres.(s) Out of this the crew muff receive for their share, which is one fifth, 210,000 livres (h) consequently there remains only 840,000 livres) profit for the undertakers. This is not sufficient, as will be easily made evident. First we muff deut the expences of unloading, which, for the 145 ships, cannot reckoned at less than 8,0oo livres (k) The insurance of 2,547,000 livres, (1) at five per cent. muff amount to 127,350 livres.(m) As much also must be deduced for the interest of the money. The value of the ships muff be estimated at two thirds of the capital advanced, and will therefore be ,698,ooo livres.(n) If we allow no more than five per cent. for the annual repair of the ships, we shall still be obliged to fubftraa 84,900 livres) from the profits. All there sums added together make a loss of 357,300 livres,(p) which being assessed upon a capital of 2,547,000 livres,(q) amounts to a loss of 14 livres and 6 deniers) per cent. THOSE who think this loss may be compensated by the oil extracted from the cod's liver, and by the tongues and bowels which are likewise salted and sold, will find them selves much mistaken, as these trifling articles are farce sufficient to pay the salaries of the captains, and the du ties laid upon the commissions of sale. THE French ministry must, therefore, either absolutely give up the fishery of the green cod, which is consumed,in (d) t2. Ins. 6d. (e) 71. r7 6d. (f) 61. IlI. 3d. (S) 45,9371. io' .() 9,1571. cos. (i) 36,7501. ,(k) 38o0t -s. 6d. (1) I.,431/ $. (:m) 5,5j71. x. 3d. (n) 74,287/. 0lo. (o) 3,7141. 7s. id. (p) 15,6311. 17s. 6d. (i) iX,4.31/. 5s. (r) Ins. 3d. farthing.
3 O O K in the capital, and in the northern provinces of France, XVII.,,or must take off the enormous duties which are at pre sent imposed upon this kind of consumption. If they delay much longer to sacrifice this insignificant portion of the public revenue to so valuable a branch of trade, they will soon have the mortification to see the revenue disappear together with the trade that produced it. The habit of trading, the hopes of amendment, the aversion the traders have for felling their ships and stock under prime cost; these are the only motives that induce them still to continue the cod fishery; motives which must certainly have an end, and if we may judge from the general ap appearance of dissatisfaction, that end is not very far off. THE English, the produce of whose fishery is subject to no tax, have not the same reasons for giving it up. They have also another advantage which is, that not coming from Europe, as their competitors do, but only from Newfoundland or other places almost as near, they can make use of very small vessels, which are easily managed, are not much raised above the water, and where fails may be brought level with the deck, so that being very little exposed even to the most violent winds, their work is seldom interrupted by the roughness of the weather. Besides, they do not, as ether seamen, lose their time in procuring baits, which they bring along with them. In a word, their sailors are more inured to the fatigues, more accustomed to the cold, and more ready at the business. THE English, however, attend very little to the fishery of the green cod; because they have no mart for disposing of it. In this branch they do not sell half so much as their rivals. As their cod is prepared with very little care, they seldom make up a complete cargo of it. For fear of its spoiling, they commonly quit the Great Bank,,with
With two thirds and very often with not more than half 0 0 K their lading, which they sell to the Spanish and Portus Av. guess, and amongst their own countrymen. But they make themselves amends for this trifling exportation of the green cod, by the great superiority they have acquired in all markets for the dry cod. THIS branch of trade is carried on in two different ways. That which is called the Wandering Fishery, belongs to vessels which fail every year from Europe to Newfoundland, a, the end of March, or in April. As they come near the island, they frequently meet with a quantity of ice, which the northern currents push to wards the south, which is broken to pieces by repeated shocks, and melts sooner or later at the return of the heats. These cakes of ice are frequently a league in circumference they are as high as the loftiest mountains, and reach to above sixty or eighty fathom under water. When they are joined to lesser pieces, they sometimes 'occupy a space of a hundred leagues in length, and twenty-five or thirty in breadth. Interest, which ob lines the mariners to come to their landings as soon as possible, that they may chuse the harbours most favour able to the fishery, makes them brave the rigour of the seasons and of the elements, which all conspire against human industry. Neither the most formidable rampart ereaed by military art, nor the dreadful cannonade of a besieged town, nor the terrors of the most skillful and obstinate sea-fight require so much intrepidity and experience to encounter, as do there enormous floating bul works which the sea opposes to there small fleets of fishermen But the most insatiable of all passions, the thirst of gold, surmounts every obstacle, and carries the ma river across these mountains of ice to the spot where the lips are to take in their lading.,THE
B O O K THE first thing to be done after landing is to cut wood X'VI.,. and erect scaffolds. These labours employ every body when they are finished, the company divide; one half of the crew flays ashore to cure the fish, and the other goes on board in small boats, with three men in those which are intended for the fishery of the Caplin, and four for the cod. These last, which are the most numerous, fail before it is light, generally at the distance of three, four or five leagues from the coast, and return in the evening to the scaffolds near the sea-side, where they de posit the produce of the day when one man has taken off the cod's head and emptied the body, he gives it to another, who slices it and puts it in fait, where it remains eight or ten days. After it has been well washed, it is laid on gravel, where it is left till it is quite dry. It is then heaped up in piles, and left for some day, to exfude. It is then again laid on the strand, where it continues drying, and takes the colour we see it have in Europe. THERE are no fatigues whatever to be compared with the labours of this fishery, which hardly leave those who work at it four hours rest in the night. Happily, the salubrity of the climate keeps up the health of the people against such severe trials and these labours would be thought nothing of, if they were rewarded by the produce. BUT there are some harbours where the strand is at so great a distance from the sea, that a great deal of time is lost in getting to them; and others, in which the bottom is of solid rock, and without Varec, so that the fish do not frequent them. There are others again, where the ii grow yellow from a mixture of fresh water with the salt; and some, in which it is burned up by the rever operation of the fun's rays reflected from the mountains.,Even
Even in the mos favourable harbours, the people are not B 0 0 K always sure of a successful fishy. The fish cannot t , . abound equally in all parts, it is sometimes found to the north, sometimes to the south, and at other times in the middle of the coat, according as it is dr even by the winds or attracted by the Caplin. The fishermen, who happen to fix at a distance from the .places which the fil: may chuse to frequent, are very unfortunate, for their expences are all thrown away by the impossibility of fol lowing the fill with all that is requisite for the fishery. THE fishery ends about the beginning of September, because at that time the fun is no longer powerful enough to dry the fifi; but when it has been successful, the ma wagers give over before that time, and make the best of their way either to the Caribbees, or to the roman ca cholic states in Europe, that they nay not be deprived of the advantages of the first market, which might be loll by an over flock. IN 1768, France sent out on this trade 114 vessels carrying in all 15,59o tons; the prime cos of which, together with the first expences of setting out, had amounted to 5,661,cco livies.(s) The united crews, half of which were employed in taking the fish, and the other half in curing it, confined of 8,022 men. Every fisherman nuit have taken for his flare book cod, and consequently, the produce of the whole must have been 24,666,6co cod. Experience thews that there are 125 cod to each quintal. Consequently 24,066,ooo muff have made 162,528 quintals. Each quint upon an average, sold at 16 livres, 9 fols, and fix deniers,(t) which makes for the whole sale 3,174,305 livres 8 fols.(u) As every hundred quintal of cod yields one barrel of oil,,VOL. IV. P 192,528,(J) 4.7,668S. iSs. (t) About x+s. 5d. (u) 13S,:75/. 17 d. ad.-.
B o 0 K I92,528 quintals muff have yielded 1925 barrels, which,*at 120 livres,(w) a barrel makes 231,000 livres.(x) Add to these, the profits of freight made by the ships in re turning home from the polls where they sold their car goes, which are estimated at 198,0oo livres,(y) and the total profits of the finery will not be found to have amounted to more than 3,603,305 livres, 8 fols.(z),WE may spare our readers a detail of the expences of unloading, which are as troublesome in their minuteness as in their insignificancy. The calculations of these have been made with the greater care and attention, and the accounts confirmed by very intelligent and disinterested men, who from their professions muff have been the pro per judges of this master. They amount in the whole to 695,680 livres, 17 oils, 6 deniers,(a) so that the net produce of the fishery amounted only to 2,907,624 livres, o1 fols, 6 deniers.(b) FROM these profits, the insurance money muff be de dulled, which at 6 per cent. upon a capital of 5,661,ooo livres,(c) amounts to 339,660 livres.(d) We muff also reckon the interest of the money, making at 5 per cent. 283,o5o livres.(e) Neither muff we omit the.wear of the ships, the prime cols of which making half the whole capital, mug be set down at 2,830,5co livres:(f) this wear therefore which cannot be reckoned at less than 6 per cent. muff amount to 141,525 livres.(g) Admit ting all these circumstances, which, indeed, cannot be called in question, it follows that the French have loll upon this in 1768, 687,xlo livres, 9 fols, 6 deniers,(b) and consequently 12 livres, 2 fols, 9 deniers) percent. of their capital. (mc) 5!7 Ss. (x) lo, o6!L s. (v) 8,6621. los. (I) 157,6l44'. s. . 2. -. (a) 3o,4361. os.9.l. (b) 12;7,oS/. Is. 3d. 4. (c) z47,668/. 15s. (d) ,i, sail -:. 64. (e) lz,-;SI. 3. 9d. (f) z3,834/. 7s. 6d. (g) 6:.SII. 1d. 4d. . (;) 3o,o611, is. Sd. ' (i): o 7d
SUCH losses, *which unfortunately have been but too B 0 0 K,X. VII. often repeated, will wear the nation more and more from this ruinous branch of trade. Individuals who still carry it on, will foori give it up ; and it is even probable, that in imitation of the English, they would have done so already, if like them they had been able to make them selves amends by the stationary fishery. BY stationary fishery, we are to understand that which is made by the Europeans who have settlements on those coasts of America where the cod is most plentiful. It is infinitely more profitable than the wandering fishery, be cause it requires much less expence, and may be continued much longer. These advantages the French enjoyed as long as they remained peaceable possessors of Acadia, Cape Breton, Canada, and part of Newfoundland. They have lost them one after another by the errors of govern ment, and from the wreck of these riches, have only pre served a right of salting and drying their fish to the north of Newfoundland, from cape Bona Vista to Point Rich. All the fixed establishments that are left them by the peace of 1763, are reduced to the island of St. Peters, and the two islands of Miquelon, which they are not even at liberty to build fortifications upon. There are 800 in habitants at St. Peters, not more than one hundred at great Miquelon, and only one family on the smaller. The fishery which is extremely convenient upon the two first, is entirely impracticable on the lesser island, but this last supplies them both with wood, and particularly St. Peters, which has none of its own. Nature however has made amends for this deficiency at St. Peters, by an ex excellent harbour, which indeed is the only one in this small Archipelago. In 1768, they took 24,390 quin talk of cod, but this quantity will not much increase, because the English not only refute the French the liberty's of
-B O Kos fishing in the narrow canal, which separates these, ,islands from the southern coasts of Newfoundland, but,have even seized some of the sloops which attempted it. This severity, which is not warranted by treaty, and only maintained by force, is rendered till more odious by the extensiveness of their own possessions, which reach to all the islands where the fish is to be found. Their prin cipal settlement is at-newfoundland, where there. are about 8ooo English, who are all employed in the fishery. No more than nine or ton flips a year are sent out from the mother country for this purpose; and there are some fe.v more which engage in other articles of commerce, but the greater part only exchange the productions of Europe for fil, or carry off the fruit of the industry of the inhabitants. . BEFORE 1755, the fisheries of the two rival nations-were nearly equal, from their own accounts, with this difference only, that France on account of its population and religion consumed more at home, and sold less; but since she has lost her positions in North American one year with another, the two fisheries, that is the Stationary and the wandering united, have not yielded more than 216,t158 quintals of dry cod, which is barely sufficient for the consumption of its southern provinces at home, and of course admits of no exportation to the colonies. IT may be asserted that the rival nation, on the con tray, has increased its fishery two thirds since its con quefis, making in all 651, 14 quintals, the profits of which, valuing each quintal at no more than 4 livres,(k) a difference owing to its being cured with less care than the French fish, will amount to 9,115,596 livres.(l) One fourth of this is sufficient for the consumption of Great Britain and her colonies; consequently what is sold in,Spain, k) 1s-,d, (0 393,8071. 6s. 6d
Spain, Portugal, and all the sugar islands amounts to a B 0 0 K sum of 6,836,697. livres) returned to the mother toun- XI. try, either in specie or commodities: This objet of ex potation would have been frill more considerable, if when the. court of London made the conquest of Cape Breton. and St. John's, they had not been so inhuman as to drive out the French whom they found.fettled there; who have' never yet been 'replaced, and, probably, never will be. The same bad policy has also been followed in Nova Scotia. Nova SCOTIA, by which is at present to be understood The all the coast of 30o leagues in length, contained between French the:limits of New: England and the south coast of the Nova Scot river.:St. Lawrence, seemed at first to have comprehended i'a to Eng only the great triangular peninsula, lying nearly in heaving middle of this space. This peninsula, which the French been long called Acadia, is extremely well situated for the thipspofflion,of it them which come from: the Caribbees to, water at. It. offers 'fe them a great number of excellent ports in which ships may enter and go out of with all winds. There is a great quantity of cod upon the coast, and fill more upon small banks atthe distance of a few leagues. The soil which is very gravelly, is extremely convenient for dry ing it; it abounds besides with good wood, and land 'fit for several forts of cultivation, and extremely well si tufted for the fur trade of the neighbouring continent. Though this climate is in the temperate zone, the win terms however are long and severe, and they are followed by sudden and excessive heats, to which generally succeed very thick fogs, which last a long time. These circum stances makes this rather a disagreeable country, though it cannot be reckoned an unwholesome one.,P 3 IT (m) gg,iro5S. s. od halfpenny,
B O O K IT was in 1604 that the French fettled in Acadia, four x.vn. . years before they bad built the smallest hut in Canada.,Instead of fixing towards the east of the peninsula, where they would have had larger seas, an easy navigation, and plenty of cod, they 'chore a small bay, afterwards; called the French bay, which had none qs these advantages It has been said, that they were induced by the beauty of Port-royal, where a thousand Ships may ride in safety from every wind, where there is an excellent bottom, and at all times four or five fathom of water, and eighteen at the entrance. It is most probable that the founders of this colony were led to chuse this situation from its vicinity to the countries abounding in furs,. of which the exclusive trade had been granted to them. This conjecture is confirmed by the following circum fiance: that both the first monopolizers, and those who. succeeded them, took the utmost pains to divert the at' mention of their countrymen whom restlessness or necessity brought into these regions, from the clearing of the woods, the breeding of cattle, from fishing and from every kind of culture; chusing rather to engage the in dufiry of these adventurers in hunting or in trading with the savages. THE mischiefs arising from a false lfytem of administration at length discovered the fatal effect of exclu five charters. It would be an insult to the truth and dignity of history to say that this happened in France from any attention to the common rights of the nation, at a time when these rights were most openly violated. This sacred tie, which only can secure the safety of the people, while it gives a fashion to the power of kings, was never known in France. But in the most absolute governments a spirit of ambition sometimes effect what in equitable and moderate ones is done from principles of,jufiice.
justice. The ministers of Lewis the XrVth, who wished B 0 0 K,XVII to make their master respectable that they might reflex ., some dignity on themselves, perceived that they should not succeed without the support of riches; ands that a people to whom nature has not given any mines, can not acquire wealth but by agriculture and commerce. Both there resources had been hitherto choaked up in the colonies by the restraints laid upon all things from an improper interference. There impediments were at last removed; but Acadia either knew not how, or was not able to make us; of this liberty. THIS colony was yet in its infancy, when the fettle ment which has since become so famous under the name of New-england, was first made in its neighbourhood. The rapid success of the cultures in this new colony did not much attract the notice of the French. This kind of prosperity did not excite any jealousy between the two nations. But when they began to suspect that there was likely to be a competition for the beaver trade and furs, they endeavoured to secure to themselves the sole property of it; and they were unfortunate enough to succeed. AT their first arrival in Acadia they had found the pen insula, as well as the forests of the neighbouring conti went, peopled with small savages, nations who went un der the general name of Abenakies. Though equally fond of war as other savage nations, they were, how ever, more sociable in their manners. The missionaries easily insinuating themselves amongst them, had so far inculcated their tenets, as to make enthusiasts of them. At the same time that they taught them their religion, they inspired them with that hatred, which they them selves entertained for the English name. This fun mental article of their new worship, being that which moi exerted its influence on their senses, and the,P 4 only
B 0 0 K only one that favoured their paficn.for war . they ajop.te,it with all the rage that was natural .tother They not only refused to make any kind of exchange with.the English, but also frequently attacked and plundered their settlements. Their attacks became more frequent, more obstinate and more regular, since, they head chosen .St. Captains, formerly captain of the regiment of Carignan, for their commander; he having fettled among them, married one of their women, and conforming in every respect to their mode of life.,W.VrtS the English saw that all efforts either to re concile the savages, or to destroy them in their forests were ineffectual, they sell upon Acadia, which they look ed upon with reason as the only cause of all these cala cities. Whenever the least hostility took place between the two mother countries, the peninsula was attacked. Having no defence from Canada, from which it was too far distant, and very little from Port-royal, which was only surrounded by a few weak pallisadoes, it was con grantly taken. It undoubtedly afforded force satisfaction to the New-Englanders, to ravage this colony and to re tard its progress ; but still this was not sufficient to dispel the suspicions excited by a nation almost more formidable by what Sue is able to do, than by what ihe.really does. Obliged as they were, however unwillingly, to restore their conquest at each treaty of peace, they waited with impatience till Great Britain should acquire such a superiority as would enable her to dispense with this restitution The end of the war on account of the Spanish function brought on the decisive moment; and the court of Versailles was for ever deprived of a possession of which it had never known the importance. THE ardour which the English had shewn for the possession of this territory did not manifest itself afterwards,in
in the care they took to maintain or to improve it. B o o K,- XVII; Having built a very flight fortification at Port-royal,, - ., which had taken the name of Annapolis, in honour of queen anne, they contented themselves with putting a very small garrison in it.' The indifference shewn by the government infected the nation, a circumstance not usual in a free country. Not more than five English families came over to Acadia, which still remained inhabited by the first colonial; who were only persuaded to stay upon a promise made them of never being compelled to bear arms against their ancient country. Such' was the at raiment which the French then had for the honour of their country. Cherished by the government, respected by foreign nations, and attached to their king by a ibries of properties which had rendered them illustrious and aggrandized them, they were inspired with that' spirit of patriotifm'which arises from success. 'They considered it as glorious to bear the name of Frenchmen, and could not thin k of foregoing the title. The Acadians, there fore, who, in submitting to a new yoke, had sworn ne ver to bear arms against their former fauidards; were called the French neutrals. THERE were twelve or thirteen hundreds them set ted in the capital, the rest were dispersed in the neigh pouring country. No magistrate was ever set over them; and they were never acquainted with the laws of England. No tents or taxes of any kind were ever eased 'from them. Their new sovereign seemed to have forgotten Manners them; and he himself was a total stranger to them. of the,Frenclh Hunting and fishing, which had formerly been thewlho re delight of the colony, and might still have supplied italia to with' subsistence, had no further attraction for a fmpletleEnglii-,'goveno and quiet people, and gave way to agriculture. It lament in been established in the marshes and the low lands, hy NovaSco-,e-tia. 1'¢-
B O K repelling the sea and rivers ' which covered there plains, XVIL' = ~i . with dikes. These grounds yielded fifty'for one at firfl,,and afterwards fifteen or twenty for one at leafs. Wheat and oats succeeded best in them, but they likewise' pro duce rye, barley, and maize, There were'alfd'potatoes in great plenty, the use of which was become' common. AT the same time the immense meadows were covered with numerous flocks. They computed as much 'as sixty thousand head of horned cattle; and most families had several horses, though the tillage was carried on by oxen. The habitations, built all of wood, were extremely con-lenient, and furnished as neatly as a substantial farmer's house in Europe. They bred a great deal of poultry of all kinds, which made a variety in their food" for the most part wholesome and plentiful. Their ccmmnn drink was beer and cyder, to which they sometimes added rum. Their usual cloathing was in general the' produce of their own flax, or the fleeces of their own hbeep-with these they made common linens and coarse cloths. If any of them had a desire for articles of greater luxury, they drew them from Annapolis, or Louifbourg,'arid gave in exchange, corn, cattle or furs. THE neutral French had nothing else to give their neighbours, and made still fewer exchanges among them selves, because each separate family was able and had been used to provide for its wants. They, therefore, knew nothing of paper-currency, which was so common throughout the rest of North-america. Even the small quantity of specie which had flipped into the colony did not inspire that activity in which consists its real value. Their manners were of course extremely simple. There never was a cause either civil or criminal of importance enough to be carried before the court of judicature established at Annapolis. Whatever little differences arose,from
from time time among ther were ariicablyr'-adjlifted by B 0 t: their elders. All their publie ads' Were gfrawn by their . pastors, who had likewificthe keeping of their'wills, for which and their religiotus.ferviees the'inhibitariit paid a twenty-seventh part of their harvey.' THESE were always plenfifui'ci-obrgh ito afford more means than there were-bjeEiS'fo? generosity'" 'Real mi very was entirely unknowing benevolence prevented the demands of poverty. - Every'missortune'was'relieved as it were, before it could'be'felt, without ostentation on the one:hand, and without meanness'. ohi the' other. Itr was' ins short a society 'of brethren; every iidivfdita of which'was';eually'read/y'td gi've'and to receive what he thought the common rights' arising . ' : So prefer a harmony naturally prevented a]l those con legions of :gallantry :which' .are fob" often fatal to the peace of families. 'Shire never was' an insane in this society of 'an unlawful couriers between the two'foxes. This evil was prevented 'by ea4yn:m'arriages; 'for no one passed his youth in a state of'celibacy. :As soon as a young-man came, to the proper age, the community built him a house, broke up' the lands about it, sowed them, and supplied them with all the necessaries of life for a twelvemonth. Here he received the partner whom he had chosen, and who brought him her portion in' flocks. This new. family grew and prospered like the others. In 1749 all together made a population of eighteen thousand fouls. AT this period Great-britain perceived of what con sequence the possession of Acadia might be to her commerce. The peace, which necessarily left a great number of men without employment, furnished an op opportunity, by the disbanding of the troops, for peopling and cultivating a vast and fertile territory. The Britifl,mi-
B O O Ministry offered particular-advantages to all who would,. go over and fettle in Acadia. Every soldier, sailor. and workman was. to have fifty acres of land for himself, and ten for every person. he carried over in his family. All non-commissioned officers were-allowed eighty for them selves, and fifty :for theirs-wives and children; ensigns 200; lieutenants 30. captains ;46;. randall officers of a higher .rank 6qo; together,. with thirty for each of their dependents. .leland was to be tax free for the first ten years, and never to. pay above one livre, two fuss, fix deniers (r) for fifty acres. Besides this, the go government engaged to adtanceor reimburse the.txpences of passage, to build houses, to.;furnih all the necessary: instruments for fishery or agriculture; and to. defray the expences of subsistence for the.firf.year. These encouragements determined three thousand, seven hundred and fifty persons in the month of May 1749 to go to America rather than run the risque of starving in Europe. THE new colony was intended to form an. establishment to the south-east of Acadia, in a place which the savages had formerly called Chebufto, and the English Hallifax. This situation. was preferred to several, others where the soil was better, for the fake of establishing in its neighbourhood an excellent cod fishery, and fortifying one of the finest harbours in America. But as it was the spot most favourable for the chace, the English were ob lived to dispute it with the Micmac Indians, who mostly frequented it. These savages defended with obstinacy a territory they held from nature; and it was not till after very great losses that the English drove them out from their possessions. THIS war was not entirely finished, when there was some agitation discovered among the neutral French. People (n) About one Shilling.
people whose manners were so simple and who enjoyed B O O IC such liberty, could not but perceive that it was impossible X. there fhbtild be any serious thoughts in fettling in countries so near to them without their independence being affected by it. To this apprehension was added that of seeing their religion in danger. Their priests either heated by their own enthusiasm, or secretly instigated by the governors of Canada, persuaded them to credit every thing they chose to suggest against the English, whom they called heretics. This word, which has so power ful an influence on deluded minds, determined this happy American colony to quit their habitations and remove to New France, where they were offered lands. This re solution many of them executed 'immediately, without considering the consequences of it; the rest were pre paring to follow as boon as they had provided for their safety. The English government, either from policy or caprice, determined to prevent them by an aft of treachery always base and cruel in those to whom power affords milder methods. Under a pretence of eating a re neal of the oath which they had taken at the time of their becoming English subject, they assembled those to gather who were not yet gone, and when they had col lead them, immediately embarked them on board of ships which transported them to the other English colo ionics, where the greater part of them died of grief and vexation rather than want. SUCH are the fruits of national jealousies, of that ra graciousness inherent to all governments which incessantly preys both upon mankind and upon land. What an enemy loses is reckoned a gain, what he gains, is looked upon as a loss. When a town cannot be taken, it is carved; when it cannot be maintained, it is burnt to lies, or its foundations rated. Rather than surrender, ship
B 0 OKfhip or a fortification is blown up by powder and by, mines. A despotic government separates its enemies from,its slaves by immense deserts, to prevent the irruptions of the one, and the emigrations of the other thus Spain chore rather to make a wilderness of her own country, and a grave of America, than to divide its riches with any other of the European nations. The Dutch have been guilty of every public and private crime to deprive other commercial nations of the spice trade. 'hey have oftentimes even thrown whole cargoes into the sea, rather than they would sell them at a low price. France rather chose to give up Louisiana to the Spaniards, than to let it fall into the hands of the English; and England destroyed the French vessels to prevent their re turning to France. Can we assert after this that policy and society were instituted for the happiness of mankind? Yes they were instituted to screen the wicked man, and to secure the man in power. Present SINCE the emigration of a people who owed their hap tate of Nova Scot p-nefs to their virtuous obscurity, Nova Scotia has been,but thinly inhabited. It seems as if the envy that depopulated the country had blasted it. At least the punishment of the injustice falls upon the authors of it; for there is not a single inhabitant to be seen upon all that length of coast between the river St. Lawrence, and the peninsula; nor do the rocks, the sands and masses with which it is at present covered, make it probable that it ever will be peopled. The cod, indeed, which abounds in some of its bays, draws every year a small number of fishermen during the season. THERE are only three settlements in the rest of the province. Annapolis, the most ancient of them, waits for free inhabitants to take the place of the unhappy,. .Frenchmen
Frenchmen who were driven from it; and it seems toB O O K promise them rich returns from the fertility of her soil. ,XV. LUNENrURCH, the second Settlement, was founded a few years ago by 800 Germans come from Hallifax. At first, it did not promise much success; but is considerably improved by the unremitted industry of that warlike and wise people, who contented with defending their own territory, seldom go out of it, but to cultivate others Which. they are not ambitious of conquering. They have fertilized all the countries under the English dominion, wherever chance had conducted them. Hallifax will always continue, to be the principal place of the province; an advantage it owes to the en encouragements lavished upon it by the mother country. Their expences for this settlement from its first foundation to the year 1769, amounted to more than 9g,ooo livres) per annum. Such favours were not ill bestowed upon a city, which from its situation, is the natural ren devout of both the land and sea forces, which Great Britain sometimes thinks herself obliged to maintain in America, as well for the defence of her fisheries, and the protection of her sugar islands, as for the purpose of maintaining her connections with her northern colonies. Hallifax, indeed, derives more of its splendor from the motion and activity which is constantly kept up in its ports, than either from its cultivation which is trifling, or from its fisheries which have not been considerably im proved, though they consist of cod, mackerel, and the feal It is not even in the slate it should be as a fortified town. The malversations of persons employed, who instead of the fortifications ordered and paid for by the mother country, have only erected a few batteries without any ditch round the city, make it liable to fall without,refifance (s) s3,371. Jo.
B o o K refinance into the hands of the first enemy that attacks,it. In 1757,' the inhabitants of the county of Hallifax rated the value of their houses, cattle and merchandise at about 6,750,000ooo ivres.(p, This sum, which makes about two thirds of the riches of the whole province, has not increased above one fourth since that time. - THE desire of putting a flop to this slate. of languor was, probably, one of the motives which induced the Bri tif government to constitute a court of admiralty for all North America, and tc place the feat of it at Hallifax in 1763. Before this period, the justices of peace used to be the judges of all violations of the ace of navigation; but the partiality there magistrates used to shew in their judgments for the colony, where they were born, and which had chosen them, made their ministry useless, and even prejudicial to the mother country. It was presumed, that if enlightened men were sent from Europe, and well supported, they would impress more rcfpe& for their de termination. The event has justified this policy. Since that regulation, the commercial laws have been better observed; but fill great inconveniences have ensued from the distance-of many provinces from the feat of this new tribunal. It is probable that to remedy these, administration will be forced to multiply the number of the courts, and disperse them in places convenient for the people to have access to them. Nova Scotia will then lose the temporary advantage it gains from being the re fort of those who come for justice; but it will,'probably, find out other natural sources of wealth within itself. It has fore, indeed, that are peculiar to it. The exceed ing fine flax it produces, of which the three kingdoms are so much in want, nuts basle the progress of its im provement. Nova Scotia must not, however, expel ever to vie wish New England's) 295,312/. tow.
NEW ENGLAND, like the mother country, has fig B o K,XVII nailed itself by many as of violence; and was actuated by the same turbulent spirit. It took its rise in trouble-foundation cf some times, and its infant state was disturbed with many New-En,, dreadful commotions. It was discovered in the beginning land. of the last century, and called North Virginia, but no Europeans fettled there till the year 1608. The first co tony, which was weak and ill directed, did not succeed, and for rome time after there were only a few adventurers who came over at times in the summer, built themselves temporary huts for the fake of trading with the savages, and like them, disappeared again for the rest of the year. Fanaticism which had depopulated America to the south, was destined to depopulate it in the north. At length tome English presbyterians, who had been driven from their own country, and had taken refuge in Holland, that universal asylum of liberty, resolved to found a church for their sea in a new hemisphere. They, therefore, purchased in 162r the charter of the English North Virginia com any: for they were not poor enough to wait in patience till their virtues should have made them prosperous. Forty-one families, making in all 120 persons, set out guided by enthusiasm, which, whether founded upon error or truth, is always productive of great actions. They landed at the beginning sofa very hard winter, and found a country entirely covered with wood, which offered a very melancholy prospect to men already exhausted with the fatigues of their journey. Near one half perished either from the cold, the scurvy, or distress ; the rest were kept alive, for some time, by a spirit of enthusiasm, and the steadiness of character they had contracted under the persecution of episcopal tyranny. But their courage was beginning to fail, when it was revived by the arrival of sixty savage warriors, who came to them in the spring, headed by VOL. IV. Q their
B O OK their chief. Freedom seemed to exult that she had thus X . brought together from the extremities of the world two,such different people; who immediately entered into a reciprocal alliance of friendship and protection. The old-tenants assigned for ever to the new ones all the lands in the neighbourhood of the settlement they had formed under the name of New Plymouth; and one of the fa wages, who understood a little English, flayed with them to teach them how to cultivate the maize, and infirm them in the manner of fishing upon their coast. THIS kindness enabled the colony to wait for the com pinions they expected from Europe, with feeds and all forts of domestic animals. At first they came but slowly, but the persecution of the puritans in England increased the number of proselytes (as is always the case) to such a degree in America, that in 1630, they were obliged to form different settlements, of which Boston soon became the principal. These first settlers were not merely ecclesiastics who had been driven out of their preferment for their opinions, nor those fairies influenced by new opinions, that are so frequent among the common people. There were among them several persons of high rank, who having embraced puritanism either from motives of caprice, ambition, or even of conscience, had taken the precaution to secure themselves an asylum in these distant regions. They had caused houses to be built, and lands to be cleared, with a view of retiring there, if their en devours in the cause of civil and religious liberty should prove abortive. The same fanatical spirit that had introduced anarchy into the mother country, kept the colony in a slate of subordination, or rather a severity of manners, had the same effcc as laws in a savage climate.,THE
THE inhabitants of New England lived peaceably sort 0 O K,XVII a long time without any regular form of policy. It was not that their charter had not authorized them to establish any. mode of government they might chuse, but these en enthusiasts were not agreed amongst themselves upon the plan of their republic; and government was not sufficiently concerned about them to urge them to secure their own tranquillity. At length they grew sensible of the necessity of a regular legislation, and this great work which virtue and genius united have never attempted but with diffidence, was boldly undertaken by blind fanaticism. It bore the stamp of the rude prejudices on which it had been formed. THERE was in this new code a singular mixture of good and evil, of wisdom and folly. No man was al lowed to have any Share in the government except hews a member of the established church. Witchcraft, per jury, blasphemy, and adultery were made capital offences; and children were also punished with death, either for cursing or striking their parents. On the other hand, marriages were to be solemnized by the magistrate. The price of corn was fixed at 3 livres, 7 fols, 6 deniers) per bushel. The savages who neglected to cultivate their lands were to be deprived of them by law. Europeans were forbidden under a heavy penalty to sell them any strong liquors or warlike stores. All those who were de tested either in lying, or drunkenness, or dancing, were ordered to be publickly whipped. But at the same time that amusements were forbidden equally with vices and crimes, one might swear by paying a penalty of I livre, 2 fols, 6 deniers,(r) and break the sabbath for 67 livres, so fols.(s) it was esteemed an indulgence to be able to,Q 2 atone (q) es. x id. halfpenny. (r) ld. 3 farthings. (s) a1. . ad. 3 farthings.
B o 0 S atone by money for a neglea of prayer, or for uttering a XVIL,rash oath., But it is fill more extraordinary that the worship of images was forbidden to the puritans on pain of death, which was also inflicted on Roman catholic priests, who should return to the colony after they had been ba wished; and on Quakers who should appear again after having been whipped, branded and expelled. Such was the abhorrence for there sectaries, v.lio had themselves an aversion for every kind of cruelty, that whoever either brought one of them into the country; or harboured him but for one hour, was exposed to pay a considerable fine. Fanaticism THOSE unfortunate members of the colony, who, less occasion violent than their brethren, ventured to deny the coercive great cala cities in power of the magistrate in matters of religion, were per-eg secured with fill greater rigour. 'his appeared a blasphemy to thole divines who had rather chosen to quit their country than to shew any deference to episcopal au authority. By that natural tendency of the human heart from the love of independence to that of tyranny, they changed their opinions as they changed the climate; and only seemed to arrogate freedom of thought to themselves, in order to deny it to others. This system was supported by the severities of the law, which attempted to put a flop to every difference in opinion, by imposing capital pu punishment on all who dissented. Whoever was either con vied or even suspected of entertaining sentiments of to. legation, was exposed to such cruel oppressions, that they were forced to fly from their first asylum, and seek refuge in another. They found one on the same continent, and as New England had been first founded by persecution, its limits were extended by it. This severity, which a man turns against himself, or against his fellow creatures, and makes him either the victim, or the oppressor, soon,exerted
exerted itself against the Quakers. They were whipped, B O K,XVII. banished, and imprisoned. The proud simplicity of these new enthusiasts, who in the midst of tortures and ignominy praised God, and called for blessings upon men, in spired a reverence for their persons and opinions, and gained them a number of proselytes. This circumstance exasperated their persecutors, and hurried them on to the most atrocious ails of violence; and they caused five of them, who had returned clandestinely from banishment, to be hanged. It seemed as if the English had come to America to exercise upon their own countrymen the same cruel ties the Spaniards had used against the Indians. This spirit ofperefcution was at last suppressed by the interposition of the mother country, from whence it had been brought. CROMWELL was no more enthusiasm', hypocrisy, and fanaticism, which composed his character, factions, re millions, and proscriptions were all buried with him, and England had the prosper of calmer days. Charles the second, at his restoration, had introduced amongst his subjects a social turn, a table for convivial pleasures, gal pantry, and diversions, and for all those amusements he had been engaged in while he was wandering from one court to another in Europe, to recover the crown which his father had lost upon a scaffold. Nothing but such a total change of manners, could possibly have secured the tranquillity of his government upon a throne marked with blood. He was one of those voluptuaries, whom the love of sensual pleasures sometimes excites to sentiments of companion and humanity. Moved with the sufferings of the Quakers, he put a flop to them by a proclamation in 1661; but he was never able totally to extinguish the spirit of persecution that prevailed in America. THE colony had placed at their head Henry Vane, the fun of that Sir Henry Vane, who had had such aremarsk-,Q- 3 able
B O O Able share in the disturbances of his country. This ob . .-private and enthusiastic young man, in every thing resembling his father, unable either to live peaceably him self, or to sussex others to remain quiet, had contrived to revive the obscure and obsolete questions of grace and freewill. The disputes upon there points ran veryhigh, and would, probably, have plunged the colony into a civil war, if several of the savage nations united had not happened at that very time to fall upon the plantations of the disputants, and to massacre great numbers of them. The colonies heated with their theological contests paid at first very little attention to this considerable loss. But the danger at length became so urgent and so general, that all took up arms. As soon as the enemy was re pulsed, the colony resumed its former dissentions; and the phrenzy which they excited, broke out in 1692 in a war, marked with as many atrocious instances of violence aq any ever recorded in history there lived in a town of New England, called Salem, two young women who were subject to convulsions, accompanied with extraordinary symptoms. Their fa ther, minister of the church, thought that they were bewitched; and having in consequence cast his suspicions upon an Indian girl, who lived in his hoiife, he com pellet her by harsh treatment to confess that she was a witch. Other women upon hearing this, seduced by the pleasure of exciting the public attention, immediately believed that the convulsions which proceeded only from the nature of their sex, were owing to the same cause. Three citizens, pitched upon by chance, were immediately thrown into prison, accused of witchcraft, hanged, and their bodies left exposed to wild beasts and birds of prey. A few days after, sixteen other persons, together with a counsellor, who because he refused to plead againf;,tbher,
them, was supposed to share in their guilt, suffered in the O 0 K same manner. From this instant, the imagination of the multitude was inflamed with there horrid and gloomy scenes. The innocence of youth, the infirmities of age, virgin modesty, fortune, honour, virtue, the most dig nified employments of the State, nothing was sufficient to exempt from the suspicions of a people infatuated with visionary superstition. Children of ten years of age were put to death, young girls were stripped naked, and the marks of witchcraft searched for upon their bodies with the most indecent curiosity; those spots of the scurvy which age impresses upon the bodies of old men, were taken for evident signs of the infernal power. Fanaticism, wickedness and vengeance united, selected out their victims with pleasure. In default eyewitnesses, torments were employed to extort confessions dictated by the ex executioners themselves. If the magistrates, tired out with executions refused to punish, they were themselves ac cured of the crimes they would no longer pursue; the very ministers of religion raised faite witnesses against them, who made them forfeit with their lives the tardy remorse excited in them .by humanity. Dreams, apparitions terror and consternation of every kind increased there prodigies of folly and horror. The prisons were filled, the gibbets left standing, and all the citizens in solved in gloomy apprehensions. Tie most prudent per sons quitted a country imbrued with the blood of its in habitants; and those that remained fought for nothing but rest in the grave. In a word, nothing less than the total and immediate subversion of the colony was expected when on a sudden, in the height of the storm, the waves subsided, and a calm ensued. All eyes were opened at once, and the excess of the evil awakened the minds which it had at first stupefied. Bitter and painful remorse was, 4 the
B O K the immediate consequence; the mercy of God was im XVII. * pored by a general fast, and public prayers were offered,up to ask forgiveness for the presumption of having sup posed that heaven could have been pleated with Sacrifices with which it could only have been offended. POSTERITY will, probably, never know exactly what was the cause or remedy of this dreadful disorder. It had, perhaps, its fist origin in the melancholy, which these persecuted enthusiasts had brought with them from their own country, which had increased with the scurvy they had contracted at sea, and which had gathered fresh strength from the vapours and exhalations of a soil newly broken up, as well as from the inconveniences and hard ships inseparable from a change of climate and manner of living. The contagion, however, ceased like all other epidemical distempers, exhausted by its very communication as all the disorders of the imagination are dispelled in the transports of a delirium. A perfect calm succeeded this agitation; and the puritans of New-england have never since been seized with so gloomy a fit of enthusiasm. Severities BUT though the colony has renounced the persecuting i subsist spirit which hath Rained all religious feswith blood, it ing in the las of has preserved some remains if not of toleration, at NtEEng- least, of severity, which reminds us of those melancholy days in which it took its rise. Some of its laws are frill too severe.,[In support of this position the author gravely in produces the story of Polly Baker, who was brought before the magistrates and convicted the fifth time of having had a bastard child. He gives the speech he is said to have made on this occasion at full length. But as this speech is in the hands of every English reader, the translator has judged it unnecessary to swell his translation with it. The author's reasoning upon it is as follows :,TtlHs
THIS speech, however, produced an affecting change B 0 0 K,XVII. in the minds of all the audience. She was not only ac quitted of cither penalty or corporal punishment, but her triumph was incomplete, that one of her judges married her; so superior is the voice of reason to all the powers of studied eloquence. Notwithstanding this, the popular prejudice foot regained its ground, whether it be that political and social good often fences the voice of nature, when left to herself, or that, under the English government, where celibacy is not enjoined by religion, there is less excuse for an illicit commerce between the sexes than in those countries, where the nobility and the clergy, luxury on the one side, misery on the other, and above ail, the Scandalous example given by the court and the church, all unite in degrading the married fate, and consequently in preventing many persons from entering into it. NEW ENGLAND has some resources against bad laws in the constitution of its mother country, when the people who have the legislative power in their own hands are at liberty to correct abuses; and it has others derived from its situation, which open a vast field to industry and population. Sits colony, bounded to the north by Canada, to the Govern weft by New-york, and to the east and south by Nova"met, PO-emulation, Scotia and the ocean, extends full three hundred miles cultures, on the borders of the sea, and upwards of fifty miles in manufacturers, trade the inland parts. and navis THE clearing of the lands is not done by chance as in NewEng- the other provinces. From the first they were subjected land. to laws which are still religiously observed. No citizen whatever has the liberty of fettling even upon unoccupied land. The government which was desirous of pre serving all its members from the inroads of the savages,,and
B O O K and that they should be at hand to partake of the fuc-,V . . cours of a well-regulated society, hath ordered that whole villages should be formed at once. As soon as sixty fa miles offer to build a church, maintain a clergyman, and pay a school-master, the general congress allot them a situation, and permit them to have two representatives in the legislative body of the colony. The district as signed them always borders upon the lands already clear ed, and generally contains fix thousand square acres. These new people chute out the spot most convenient for their respective habitations, and it is usually of a square figure. The church is placed in the center; and the colonies dividing the land among themselves, each in closes his property with a hedge. Some woods are re served for a common. It is thus that New England is continually aggrandizing itself, without discontinuing to make one complete and well constituted province. THOUGH the colony is situated in the midst of the temperate zone, yet the climate is not so mild as that of some European provinces, which are under the same pa rachel. The winters are longer and more cold; the summers shorter and more hot. The sky is commonly clear and the rains more plentiful than lasting. The air has grown purer since its circulation has been made free by cutting down the woods; and malignant vapours, which at first carried off tome of the inhabitants, are no longer complained of.,THE country is divided into four provinces, which in the beginning had no connexion with one another. The necessary of maintaining an armed force against the fa wages obliged them to form a confederacy in 1643, at which time they took the name of the united colonies. In confluence of this league, two deputies from each establishment used to meet in a Rated place to deliberate,upon
upon the common affairs of New-england, according to B 0 0 K the instructions they had received from the assembly, by . . which they were sent. This association controuled in no one point the right which every individual had of acing intirely as he pleated, without either the permission or approbation of the mother country. All the submission of there provinces confined in a vague acknowledgment of the kings of England for their sovereigns. So flight a dependence displeased Charles the Second. The province of Massachuset's bay, which, though the smallest, was the richest and the most populous of the four, being guilty of some misdemeanor against govern ment, the king seized that opportunity of taking away its charter in x684; and it remained without one till the revolution; when it received another, which, however, did not answer its claims or expectations. The crown reserved to itself the right of nominating the governor, and appointing to all military employments, and to all principal posts in the civil and juridical departments; allowing the people of the colony their legislative power, they gave the governor a negative voice and the com .and of the troops, which secured him a sufficient in fluence to enable him to maintain the prerogative of the mother country in all its force. The provinces of Con nefticut and Rhode-leland by timely submission prevented the punishment that of Massachusetts had incurred, and retained their original charter. That of New-hampshire had been always regulated by the same mode of administration as the province of Massachuset's bay. The same governor presides over the whole colony, but with regulations adapted to the constitution of each province. Ac cording to the most eat calculations, the present population of New-england is computed at four hundred thousand inhabitants, which are more numerous to the,south
B O O K south than to the north of the colony, where the soil isles fertile. Among such a number of citizens, there are few proprietors wealthy enough to leave the care of their plantations to stewards or farmers: molt of them are planters in easy circumstances, who live upon their estates and are busied in the labours of the field. This equality of fortune, joined to the religious principles and to the nature of the government, gives this people a more re publican cast than is to be observed in the other colonies. NoNE of our best fruits have degenerated in New England; it is even said, that the apple is improved, at least, it has multiplied exceedingly and made cyder a more common drink than in any other part of the world. All our roots and garden-fluff have had the same success; but the feeds have not thriven quite. so well. Wheat is apt to be blighted, barley grows dry, and oats yield more straw than grain. In default of these the maize, which is usually consumed in making beer, is the drink of the common people. There are large and fruitful meadows, which are covered with numerous flocks. THE arts, though carried to a greater degree of per section in this colony than in any of the others, have not made near the same progress as agriculture. There are not more than four or five manufactures of any im portance. THE first which was formed was that for building of snips. It maintained for a long time a degree of re potation. The vessels which came out of this dock were in great estimation, the materials of which they were constructed, being found much less porous, and much less apt to split than those of the more southern pro vices. Since 1730, the numbers of them are considerably diminished, because the woods for building have been little attended to, and used for other purposes. To,prevent
prevent this inconvenience, it was proposed to forbid the B 0 0 K,XVII. cutting of any of them within ten miles of the Tea, and we know not for what reason this law, the necessity of which was so evident, was never put in force. The distilling of rum has succeeded better than the building of ships. It was begun from the facility the New England's had of importing large quantities of molasses from the Caribbees. The molasses were at first used in kind for various purposes. By degrees they learnt to distil them. When made into rum, they supplied the neigh pouring savages with it, as the Newfoundland fishermen did the other northern provinces, and sailors who frequented the coast of As ica. The degree of imperfection in which this art hath still remained in the colony, has not diminished the sale of it; because they have always been able to afford the rum at a very low price. THE same reason has both supported and increased the manufacture of hats. Though limited by the regulations of the mother country to the internal consumption of the colony, the merchants have found means to surmount these obstacles, and to smuggle pretty large quantities of them into the neighbouring settlements. THE colony fells no cloths, but it buys very few. The fleeces of its flocks, as long, though not quite so fine as the English ones, make coarse stuffs, which do extreme ly well for plain men who live in the country. SOME Presbyterians who were driven from the north of Ireland by the persecutions either of the government or of the clergy, first taught the New Englanders to cul tivate hemp and flax, and to manufacture. them. The linens made of them are since become one of the great resources of the colony.,'IHE mother country, whose political calculations have not always coincided with the high opinion entertainers
0 0 Kos her abilities, has omitted nothing to thwart these fc- XVLL, vernal manufactures. She did not perceive that by this,opprefive conduct of the government, those of her sub seas who were employed in clearing this considerable part of the new world, muR be reduced to the alternative either of abandoning so good a country, or procuring from among themselves the things of general use, and of immediate necessity. Indeed, even these resources would not have been sufficient to maintain them, if they had not had the good fortune and the address to open to them selves several other channels of subsistence, the origin and progress of which we muff endeavour to trace. THE first resource they met with from without, was in the fishery. It has been encouraged to such a degree, that a regulation has taken place, by which every family who should declare that it had lived upon salt-fish for two days in the week during a whole year, should be disburdened of part of their tax. Thus commercial views en join abstinence from meat to the protestants, in the same manner as religion prescribes it to the catholics. MACKAREL is caught only in the spring at the mouth of the Pentagon, a considerable river which empties itself in Fundy bay, towards the extremity of the colony. In the very center of the coast, and near Bolton, the cod-fish is always in such plenty, that cape Cod, not withstanding the sterility of its soil, is one of the most populous parts of the country. Not content, however, with the fish caught in its own latitudes, New England sends every year about two hundred vessels, from'thirty- five to forty tons each, to the great bank, to Newfound land, and to Cape Breton, which commonly make three voyages a season, and bring back at least a hundred thou sand quintals of cod. Besides, there are larger vessels which fail from the same ports, and exchange provisions,for
for the produce of the fishery of those English who are B O O K fettled in these frozen and barren regions. All this cod XVI is afterwards distributed in the southern parts of Europe and America. THIS is not the only article with which the British islands in the new world are supplied by New England. It furnishes them besides, horses, oxen, hogs, salt meat, butter, tallow, cheese, flour, biscuit, Indian corn, peas, fruits, cyder, hemp, flax, and woods of all kinds. The same commodities pass into the islands belonging to the other nations, sometimes openly, sometimes by smug going, but always in lesser quantities during peace, than in war time. Honduras, Surinam, and other parts of the American continent open similar markets to New England. This province also fetches wines and brandies from the Madeiras and the Azores, and pays for them with cod-fish and corn. THE ports of 'Italy, Spain and Portugal receive an annually sixty or seventy of their ships. They come there laden with cod, wood for this building, naval stores, corn, and fish oil; many of them return with olive-oil, salt, wine and money immediately to New England, where they land their cargoes clandestinely. By this me thod, they elude the customs they would be obliged to pay in Great Britain, if they went there, as in pursuance of a positive order they ought to do. The ships which do not return to the original port are sold in those where they dispose of their cargo. They have frequently no particular address, but are freighted indifferently for every merchant and every port, till they meet with a proper purchaser. THE mother country receives from its colony yards and mars for the royal navy, planks, pot-ashes, pitch, tar, turpentine, a few furs, and in years of scarcity some,corn.
B 00 K corn. There cargoes come home in ships built by hereon merchants, or bought by them of privateers, who build upon speculation. BESIDES the trade New England makes of her own productions, she has appropriated great part of the con eying trade between North and South America, in con sequence of which the New Englanders are looked upon as the brokers or Hollanders of that part of the world. NOTWITHSTANDING this lively and continued exertion New England has never yet been able to free herself from debt. She has never been able to pay exactly for what (he received from the mother country, either in pro cautions of her own, or of foreign industry, or in those from the East-Indies; all which articles of trade amount annually to 9,ooo,ooo of livres.(t) SHE has fill, however, trade enough to keep fix thou sand sailors in constant employment. Her marine consists of five hundred large vessels, which carry altogether forty thousand tons burden ; besides a great number of smaller vessels for fishing and for the coating trade, which come out indifferently from all the open roads which are spread all over the coast. Almost all of them load and unload at Boston. BosToN, the capital of New England, is situated in a peninsula, about four miles long, at the bottom of the fine bay of Massachuset, which reaches about eight miles within land. The opening of the bay is sheltered from the impetuosity of the waves by a number of rocks which rise above the water, and by a dozen of small islands, the greater part of which are fruitful and inhabited. These dikes and natural ramparts will not allow more than three (hips to come in together. At the end of the last century a regular citadel, named fort William, was erected,in (0 393,7501.
in one of the islands upon this narrow channel. There BOOK,XVII. are one hundred pieces of cannon carrying forty-two. pounders each upon it, which are disposed in such a man ner, that they can batter a lip fore and aft before it is .possible for her to bring her-guns to bear. A league fur ther on, there is avery high light-house, the signals from which, in case, of invasion, are perceived and repeated by the fortress along the whole coast, at the same time that Boston has her own light-houses, which spread the alarm to all the inland country. Except in the case of a very thick fog-which a few ships may take advantage of to get into some of the smaller islands, the town has always five or fix hours to prepare for the reception of the enemy-and to get together ten thousand militia, which can be raised at four and twenty hours notice. If a fleet should ever be able to pass the artillery of fort William, it would infallibly be flopped by a couple of batteries, which being ereaed to the north and south of the place, command the whole bay, and would give time for all the vessels and commercial stores to be sheltered from cannon shot in the river Charles. BOSTON port is large enough for fix hundred vessels to anchor in it safely and commodiously. There is a mag munificent pier construed far enough advanced in the sea for the ships to unload their goods without the assistance of a lighter, and to discharge them into the warehouses which are ranged on the north side. At the extremity of the pier,, the town appears built in the form of a crescent round the harbour. According to the bills of mortality, which are become with reason the only rule of political arithmetic, it contains about thirty thousand inhabitants, composed of Anabaptists, Quakers, French refugees, English Presbyterians and church of England men. The houses, furniture, dress, food, conversation, customs and VOL. IV. R manners
3O KO'tniainers are so exactly similar to the mode of living il . o. - d London, that it is impossible to find any other difference but that which arises from the overgrown population of large capitals. New York - NEw ENGLAND, which resembles the mother Country founded by., the Dutch, m f* many respects, is contiguous to New-york. The pales into latter limited to the east by this principal colony, and the hands of the bounded to the weft by New-jersey, occupies at first a English. very narrow space of twenty miles along tie fea-flhore,,and insensibly enlarging, extends above a hundred and fifty miles northward in the inland country. THIS country was discovered by Henry Hudson in 160o. That celebrated navigator, after having made vain attempts under the patronage of the Dutch East India company for the discovery of a north-west passage, veered about to the southward, and coasted along the continent, in hopes of making some useful discovery that might prove a kind of indemnification to the society for the trust they had reposed in him. He entered into a considerable river, to which he gave his name, and after having reconnoitred the coast and its inhabitants, re turned to Amsterdam from whence he had set fail. - According to the European system, which considers the people of the new world as nothing, this country should have belonged to the Dutch. It had been disco vexed by a man in their service, who had taken posses sion of it in their name, and given up to them all the claims which he himself might have to it. His being an Englishman did not, in the least, invalidate these incontrovertible titles. It must, therefore, have occasioned great surprize, when James the first asserted his pretensions to it, upon the principle that Hudson was born his subject; as if the real country of any man was not that in which he earns his substance. The king was so,con-
convinced of this that he Coon gave up the matter; and B 0 0 I the republic sent in 1610 to lay the foundation of the i .I colony in a country which was to be called New Belgia. Every thing prospered here. Fortunate beginnings seem ed to announce a till greater progress, when in 1664 the colony was exposed to a storm which it could not possibly foresee; England, which had not at that time those intimate connection's with Holland that the ambition and successes of Lewis the sith have given birth to since, had orig seen with a jealous eye the prosperity of a small state in its neighbourhood, which, though but just form ed, was already extending its prosperous trade to all .parts of the world. She was secretly disturbed at the thoughts of not being on an equality with a power to whom, in the nature of things, She ought to have been greatly superior. Her rivals in commerce and navigation by their vigilance and oeconomy, gained the advantage over her in all the large markets of the whole universe. Every effort the made to establish a competition turned either to her loss or discredit, and she was obliged only to a& a fe contrary part, whilst all the trade then known was evidently centering itself in the republic. At length, the intion felt the disgrace of her merchants, and resolved that what they could not compass by industry, should be secured to them by force. Charles the second, notwithstanding his aversion for business, and his immoderate love's pleasure, eagerly adopted a measure which gave him a prospect of acquiring the riches of these distant regions, together with the maritime empire of Europe. His brother, more active and more enterprising than himself, encouraged him in these dispositions, and the deliberation concluded with their ordering the Butcher 2 .hips
B 0 0 K hips to be attacked without any previous declaration oscar. AN English fleet appeared before New Belgia, in the month of August. It had three thousand men on board, and so numerous a force precluded every idea, as well as every hope of resistance; the colony submitted as soon as it was summoned. The conquest was secured to the victors by the treaty of Breda; but it was again taken from them in 1673, when the intrigues of France had found means to set two powers at variance, who for their mutual interests ought always to be friends. A second treaty restored New Belgia to the English, who have re stained in quiet possession of it ever since under the name of New York.,IT had taken that name from the duke of York, to whom it had been given by the king in 1664. As soon as he had recovered it, he governed it upon the same arbitrary principles, which afterwards deprived him of the throne. His deputies, in whose hands were lodged powers of every kind, not contented with the exercise of the public authority, constituted themselves arbitrators in all private disputes. The country was then inhabited by Hollanders, who had preferred these plantations to their own country, and by colonists who had come from New England. These people had been too long accustomed to liberty, to submit patiently for any time to so arbi tray an administration. Every thing seemed tending ei ther to an insurrection or an emigration, when in 1683 the colony was invited to chuse representatives to fettle its form of government. Time produced some other changes; but it was not till ice that a fixed plan of government was adopted, which has been followed ever since.,AT
AT the head of the colony is a governor appointed by B O O K the crown, which likewise appoints twelve counsellors, XVIL without whose concurrence the governor can sign 'no a&. The commons are represented by twenty-feven'de- duties, chosen by the inhabitants, and these several bo dies constitute the general assembly, in which every power is lodged. The duration of thisaffembly, originally unlimited, was afterwards fixed at three years, and now continues for seven, like the British parliament, whose revolutions it has followed. SUPPORTED upon a form of government so solid, so Floriflih- favourable to that liberty which makes every thing prof New york per, the colony gave itself up entirely to all the labours Causes of which its situation could require or encourage. A clin sty p mate much milder than that of New England, a soil superior to it for the cultivation of corn, and equally fit for that of every other production, soon enabled it to vye successfully with an establishment that had got the start of it in all its productions, and in all the markets. If it was not equal in its manufactures, this inferiority was amply compensated by a fur trade infinitely more considerable These means of prosperity united to a very great degree of toleration in religious matters, have railed its population to one hundred and fifty thousand in habitants, five and twenty thousand of which are able to bear arms, and constitute the national militia. THE colony would fill have flourished much more had not its prosperity been obstructed by the fanaticism of two governors, the oppressive conduct of some others, and the extravagant grants made to some individuals in too high favour; but these inconveniences, which are only temporary under the English government, have some of them ceased, and the rest of them are lessened. The province may, therefore, expect to see her productions 3 doubly
B O K doubly increased, if the two thirds of its territory, which .XVI fill remain uncleared, should yield as much as the one third which' has already been cultivated. IT is impossible to foresee what influence these riches may have upon the minds of the inhabitants, but it is certain they have not yet abused those they have hitherto acquired. The Dutch, who were the first founders of the colony, planted in it that spirit of order and economy which is the characteristic of their nation; and as they always made up the bulk of the people, even after these had changed matters, the example of their decent manners was imitated by all the new colonists brought amongst them by the conquest. The Germans, com pellet to take refuge in America by the persecution which drove them out of the palatinate, or from the other pro vices of the empire, were naturally inclined to this simple and modest way of life; and the English and French, who were not accustomed to so much frugality, soon conformed, either from motives of wisdom or emu nation, to a mode of living less expensive, and more fa miliary than that which is regulated by fashion and pa rade what has been the consequence f That the colony has never run in debt with the mother country; that it has by that means preserved an entire liberty in its sales and purchases; and been enabled always to give to its affairs the direction, which has been mols advantageous to them. Had the representatives carried the same prin cipher into their administration, the province would not have entered precipitately into engagements, the burthen of which it already feels both the banks of Hudson's river are laid out in the plantations of the colony, which enliven and decorate these borders. It is upon this magnificent canal, which,is
is navigable day and night, in all seasons, and where the B 0 0K tide runs up above a hundred and sixty miles in the land, '' that every thing which is intended for the general-market is embarked in vessels of forty or fifty tons burthen. The staple itself, which is near the Tea, is extremely well situated for receiving all the merchandise of the province and all that comes from Long Island, which is only fe parted from the continent by a narrow canal. THIS island, which takes its name from its-figure, is one hundred and twenty miles in length by twelve in breadth. It was formerly very famous fir the great number of whales and sea-calves taken in its neighbour hood; but whether it is that the frequent fisheries have driven away these animals, which generally seek quiet seas and desert shores, they have disappeared, and another branch of industry has been found to supply their loss. As the pastures are moll excellent, the breeding of all kinds of cattle, arid particularly horses, has been much attended to, without. neglecting any other branch of cul taxation. All. tefe different riches flow to the principal market, which is also increased by productions brought' from a greater distance. Some parts of New England and New Jersey find their account in pouring their stores into this magazine. THIS mart is a very considerable town, which at present has the same name as the colony, and is called New 'work. It was formerly built by the Ditch, who, gave it the name of New Amsterdam, in an island called Manhattan, which is fourteen leagues long and not very broad. In 1756, its population amounted to 10,468 whites, and 2,275 negroes. There is not any town where the air is better, or where there is a more general appearance of ease and plenty. Both the public edifices and private houses convey the idea of solidity united tor 4 .
,If the city,' however, were-attacked with . . .vigour, it would hardly hold-out.twenty-four hours-having no. other defence of the road or the town except a bad fort and a stone retrenchment new YORK, which stands at the distance of about two miles from the mouth of Hudson's river, has, properly speaking, neither port or bason, but it'does not want either, because, its road is sufficient. It-is from thence that 250 or 300 ships are dispatched every year for the different ports of Europe and America. England re cives but a small part of them, but they are the richest, because they are those whose cargo consists in furs and beaver skins. The manner in which the colony gets possession of there peltries is now to be explained.,As soon as the Dutch had built New Amsterdam in a situation which they thought favourable for the inter course with Europe, they next endeavoured to establish an advantageous trade there. The only thing at that-time in request from North America was furs; but as the neighbouring savages offered but few, and those in different ones, there was a necessity of pushing to the north.to have them better and in larger quantities', In consequence of this a project was formed for an establishment on the banks of Hudson's river, at 50o miles distance from the capital; the circumstances fortunately provedJavourable for obtaining the consent of the Iroquois to whom the territory required, belonged. This brave nation happened to be then at war with the French, who were just arrived in Canada. Upon an agreement to supply them with the same arms that their enemies used, they allowed the Dutch to build fort Orange, which was afterwards called fort Albany. There was never the least dispute between the two nations; on the contrary, the Dutch, with the assistance of their powder,,lkat
lead and guns, which they used to give in exchange for B 0 0 K skins, secured to themselves not only what they could XI get by their own hunting in all the five countries, but even the spoils collected by the Iroquois warriors in their expeditions. THOUGH the English, upon their taking possession of the colony, maintained the union with the savages, they did not think seriously of extending the fur trade, till the revocation of the edit of Nantes in 1685, introduced among them the art of making beaver hats. Their efforts were for a long time ineffectual, and there were chiefly two obstacles to their success. The French were accustomed to draw from Albany itself coverts, thick worried stuffs, different iron and copper manufactures, even arms and ammunition; all which they could sell to the savages with so much the more advantage as there goods bought at Albany cost them one third less than they would have done any other way. Besides, the American nations, who were separated from New York by the country of the Iroquois, in which no body chose to venture far, could hardly treat with any but the French. BURNET, who was governor of the English colo ny in 1720, was either the first who saw the evil, or the firs who ventured to slice at the root of it. He made the generally assembly forbid all communication be tween Albany and Canada, and then obtained the con sent of the Iroquois to build and fortify the factory of Oswego at his own expence, on that part of the lake Ontario, by which most of the savages must pass in their way to Montreal. In consequence of these two opera tions, the beavers and the other peltries were pretty equally divided between the French and English. The accession of Canada cannot but increase at present the hare New York had in the trade, as the latter is better,situated
BOO Situated for it than the country which disputed it with Xvii. her.,IF the English colony has gained by the acquisition of Canada, it does not appear to have lost any thing by be ing separated from New Jersey, which formerly made a part of New Belgia, under the title of New Sweden. In what THE Swedes were, in sac, the first Europeans who manner fettled in this region, about the year 1639. T he neglect New Jersey sell into in which they were left by their own country, which was the hands too weak to be able to extend its protection to them at or the English. so great a distance, obliged them, at the end of sixteen Present years, to give themselves up to the Dutch, who united this acquisition to New Belgia. When the duke of York received the grant of the two countries he separated them, and divided the least of them, called New Jersey, between two of his favourites carteret and Berkley, the first of whom had re civet the eastern, and the other the western part of the province, had sollicited this vast territory with no other view but to put it up to sale. Several adventurers accordingly bought large districts of them at a low price, which they divided and sold again in smaller par eels. In the midst of there subdivisions, the colony be came divided into two distinct provinces, each separately governed by the original proprietors. The exercise of this right growing at length inconvenient, as, indeed, it was ill adapted to the situation of a subject, they gave up their charter to the crown in 1702; and from that time the two provinces became one, and were directed like the greater part of the other English colonies by a governor, a council and a general assembly. NEW JERSEY, situated between 39 and 40 degrees north latitude, is bounded to the east by New York, to the weft by Pennsylvania, to the north by unknown landsman
and to the south by theocean, which walhe&sits coasts B 0 O.K through an extent of rzo miles. This large country y ' before the las revolution contained only sixteen thousand inhabitants, the descendents of Swedes and Dutch, who were its first cultivators, to whom had been added some Quakers, and some church of England men; with a greater number of Presbyterians. The defect of the go government flopped the progress and occasioned the indigence of this small colony. It might, therefore, have been expected that the era of liberty should have been that of its prosperity ; but almost all the Europeans who went to the new world in search either of an asylum or riches, preferring the milder and more fruitful climates of Carolina and Pennsylvania; New Jersey could never recover from its primitive languor. Even at this day, it does not reckon above fifty thousand whites, united in villages, or dispersed among the plantations, with twenty thousand blacks. THE poverty of this province not suffering it in the beginning to open a direct trade with the distant or so reign markets, it began to sell its productions at Philadelphia and especially at New York, with which there was an easy communication by rivers. It has continued this practice ever since, and receives in exchange from the two cities some of the productions of the mother country. Far, however, from being able to acquire any objeas of luxury, it cannot even afford to purchase all the articles of immediate necessity ; but is obliged itself to manufacture the greatest part of its clothing there is of course very little specie in the colony, which is reduced to the use of paper-currency. All its bills together do not amount to more than 35o,coo li vYes.(u) As they are current both in Pennsylvania andrew (a) 59,o621, los,
B O KNewYork, which do not take any of each others bills; XVIL ^ , they bear an advanced premium above the bills of these two colonies, by being made use of in all the payments between them. BUT so trifling an advantage will never give any real importance to New Jersey. It is from but of its own bosom, that is, from the culture of its immense tract of desert country, that it is to draw its vigour and prosperity As long as it standi in need of intermediate agents it will never recover from the state of languor into which it is plunged. This the colony is thoroughly sensible of, and all its efforts are now directed to this end, in order to enable it to a& for itself. It has even already made some with success. As far back as the year 1751, it found means to fit out, at its own expence, thirty-eight vessels bound to Europe, or to the southern isles of America These vessels carried I88,aoo quintals of biscuits, fix thousand, four hundred and twenty-four barrels of lour, seventeen thousand, nine hundred and forty-one bushels of corn, three hundred and fourteen barrels of salt beef and pork, fourteen hundred quintals of hemp; to gather with a pretty large quantity of hams, butter, beer, linseed, iron in bars, and wood for building. It is imagined that this direct trade may have increased one third since that time. THIS beginning of riches must raise the emulation, the industry, the hopes, the projects, and the enterprises of a colony, which hitherto had not been able to sustain the part in trade, which its situation seemed to promise it. If, however, there are some poor and feeble states that draw their subsistence and support from the vicinity of others more rich and more brilliant than themselves, there are a far greater number whom such a neighbourhood,en-
entirely crushes and destroys. Such, perhaps, has been B OO.IC the fate of New Jersey, as will appear from the history, x we are going to give of Pennsylvania, which lying too close to this colony has sometimes Rifled it with its shadow, sometimes eclipsed it with its splendor.,END OF THE SEVENTEENTH BOOK.,BOO K
Js~l . . , ,,, . x .,B 0 0 Kt XVIII. gib coleniesfounded in Pennsylvania, ;virginia, Maryland, Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. General r-eftlelio on all tblefietlmenns. The ua L Lutheranism-which was destined to cause a re kent foundmarkable change in Europe, either by its own influence, Pennsylvania an-or by the example it gave, had occasioned a great ser news of mentation in the minds of all men; when there arose .that fa.,from the midst of it a new religion, which at first ap feared much more like a rebellion guided by fanaticism than like a sea that was governed by any fixed principles. In sad, the generality of innovators follow a regular system composed of doctrines connected with each other, and in the beginning, at least, take arms only to defend themselves. The Anabaptists, on the contrary, as if they had only looked into the Bible for the word of com and to attack, lifted up the standard of rebellion, be fore they had agreed upon a system of doctrine. It is true, indeed, that their leaders had taught, that it was a-ridiculous and useless practice to administer baptism to infants, and asserted that their opinion upon this point,wag
waste same as that of the primitive church ;' but they RBO:O'K had not yet ever praised themselves this only article of. X , faith, which furnished a pretence for separation. The spirit of sedition precluded them from paying a proper at mention to the schismatic tenets on which their division was founded. To shake off the tyrannical yoke of church and state, was their law and their faith. To enlist in the armies of the lord, to join with the faithful, who were to wield the sword of Gideon, this was their de vice, their motive, and their signal for rallying. IT was not till after they had carried fire and sword into a great part of Germany, that the anabaptists thought at last of marking and cementing their confederacy by tome vifiblefign of union. Having been inspired. at first to raise a body. of troops, in 1525 they were inspired to com pose a religious code, and the following were the tenets they adopted. IN the mixed system of intolerance and mildness by which they are guided, the anabaptist church being the only onein which the pure word of God is taught, neither can nor ought to communicate with any other. THE spirit of the Lord blowing wheresoever it listeth, the power of preaching is not limited to one order of the faithful, but is given to all. Every one likewise has the gift of prophecy. EVERY fe which has not preserved the community of all things which constituted the life and spirit of primitive christianity, has degenerated, and is for that reason an impure society. MAGISTRATES are useless in a society of the truly faith ful. A christian never has occasion for any; nor is a christian allowed to be one himself,. CHaISTIANt
B 0 Ok CHRISTIANS are not permitted to take up arms even in,their own defence, much leTs is it lawful for them to inlift as soldiers in mercenary armies. BOTH law-suits and oaths are forbidden the disciples of Christ, who has commanded them to let their yea, be yea, and their nay, nay. THE baptism of infants is an invention of the devil and of the pope. The validity of baptism depends upon the voluntary consent of the adults, who alone are able to receive it with a consciousness of the engagement they take upon themselves such was in its origin the religious system of the Ana baptists. Though it appears founded on charity and mild news, yet it produced nothing but violence and iniquity. The chimerical idea of an equality of stations is the most dangerous one that can be adopted in a civilized society. To preach this system to the people, is not to put them in mind of their rights, it is leading them on to assassination and plunder. It is letting domestic animals loose, and transforming them into wild beats. The mailers who govern the people must be better informed, or the laws by which they are conducted muff be softened: but there is in sac no such thing in nature as a real equality; it exists only in the system of equity. Even the savages themselves are not equal, when once they are college into lords. They are only so, while they wander in the woods; and then the man who suffers the produce of his chace to be taken from him, is not the equal of him who deprives him of it. Such has been the origin of all so cieties.,A doctrine, the basis of which was the community of goods and equality of ranks, was hardly calculated to find partizans any where but among the poor. The peasants all accordingly adopted it with the more violences
in proportion as the yoke from which it delivered them O 0 KI was more insupportable. She far greater part, especially XI those who were condemned to avery, rose up in arms on all sides, to support a doctrine, which, from being vas fats, made them equal to their lords. The apprehension. of seeing one of the first bands of society, obedience to. the magistrate, broken united all other se&cs against them, who could not subsist without subordination. After having carried en a more obstinate resistance than could have been expected, they yielded at length to the number of their enemies. Their fe, notwithstanding it had made its way all over Germany, and into a part of the north, was no where prevalent, because it had been every where opposed and dispersed. It was but suit tolerated in those countries, in which the greatest latitude of opinion was allowed ; and there was not any state in which it was able to fettle a church, authorized by the civil power. This of course weakened it, and from obscurity it sell into contempt. Its only glory is that of having, perhaps, contributed to the foundation of the fe of the quakers. THIS humane and pacific fel had arisen in England amidst the confusions of a war, which terminated in a monarch's being dragged to the scaffold by his own sub jets. The founder of it George Fox, was of the lower classes the people; a man who had been formerly a me mechanic, but whom a singular and contemplative turn of mind had induced to quit his profession. In order to wean himself entirely from-all earthly affections, he broke off all connexions with his own family; and for fear of being tempted to renew them, he determined to have no fixed abode. He often wandered alone in the woods, without any other amusement but his bible. In time he even learnt to go without that, when he thought he had Vo IV. S acquired
B O OK acquired from it a degree of inspiration similar to that of,the apostles and the prophets. Thin he began to think of making proselytes, which he found not in the least difficult in a country where the minds of all men were filled and disturbed with enthusiastic notions. He was, therefore, soon followed by a multitude of disciples, the novelty and singularity of whose notions upon incomprehensible subject, could not fail of attracting and fascinating all thole who were fond of the marvellous the first thing, by which they caught the eye, was the simplicity of their dress, in which there was neither gold nor silver lace, nor embroidery, nor laces, nor ruffles, and from which they affected to banish every thing that was superfluous or unnecessary. They would not sussex either a button in the bat, or a plait in the coat, because it was possible to do without them. Such an extraordinary contempt for established modes reminded those who adopted it, that it became them to be more virtuous than the rest of men, from whom they distinguished themselves by this external modesty.,ALL the external deference which the pride and tyranny of mankind exact from those who are unable to re fuse them, were disdained by the quakers, who disclaimed the names of master and servant. They condemned all titles as pride in those who claimed them, and as mean ness in those who bestowed them. They did not allow to any person whatever the appellation of eminence or excellence, and so far they might be in-the right; but they refused to comply with those reciprocal marks of at mention which we call politeness, and in this they were to blame. The name of friend, they said, was not to be refused by one christian or citizen to another, but the ceremony of bowing they considered as ridiculous and,troublesome,
troublesome. To pull off one's hat they held to be aB O O K,XVIII. want of respect to one's seif, in order to ll;cw. it to others. They carried it so far, that even the magistrates could not draw from them any external token of reverence; but they addressed both them and princes according to the an cent majesty of language, in the second person and in the singular number. THE aultcirty of their morals ennobled the singularity of their manners. The use of arms, considered in every light, appeared a crime to them. If it was to attack, it was violating the laws of humanity, if to defend one's self, it was breaking through those of christianity. Uni versal peace was the gospel they had agreed to profess. If any one smote a quaker upon one cheek, he immediately presented the other; if any one asked him for his coat, he offered his waistcoat too. Nothing could en gage these equitable men to demand more than the law ful price for their work, or to take less than what they demanded. An oath even before a magistrate and in a just cause they deemed to be a profanation of the name of God, in any of the wretched disputes that arise between weak and perishable beings. THE contempt they had for the outward forms of po liteness in civil life was changed into aversion for the ritual and ceremonial parts of religion. They looked upon churches merely as the parade of religion, they considered the sabbath as a pernicious idleness, and bap tim and the Lord's supper as. ridiculous symbols. For this reason, they rejected all regular orders of clergy. Every one of the faithful they imagined received an immediate illumination from the Holy Ghost, which gave a character far superior to that of the priesthood. When they were assembled together, the sirs person who found himself inspired arose and imparted the lights he had receives 2 from
B 0 O K from heaven. Even women were often favoured with this XVIII. v gift of speech which they called the gift of prophecy;,fometijnes many of these holy brethren spoke at the same time; but much more frequently a profound silence pre wailed in their assemblies the enthusiasm occasioned both by their meditations and discourses, excited such a degree of sensibility in the nervous system, that it threw them into convulsions, for which reason they were called quakers. To have cured these people in process of time of their folly, nothing more was requisite than to turn it into ridicule; but in stead of this, persecution contributed to make it more ge neral. Whilst every other new set met with encourage ment, this was exposed to every kind of punishment, im imprisonments, whippings, pillories, mad-houses, nothing was thought too terrible for bigots, whose only crime was that of wanting to be virtuous and reasonable over much. The constancy with which they bore their sufferings, at first excited compassion and afterwards admiration for them. Even Cromwel, who had been one of their most violent enemies, because they used to insinuate themselves into his camps, and discourage his soldiers from their pro session, gave them public marks of his esteem. His po lucy exerted itself in endeavouring to draw them into his parry, in order to conciliate himself a higher degree of respect and consideration, but they either eluded his in citations or reseated them, and he afterwards confessed that this was the only religion in which his guineas had taken no effect amongst the several persons who cast a temporary lustre on the sect, the only one who deserves to be re membered by posterity, is William Penn. He was the son of an admiral, who had been fortunate enough to be equally distinguished by Cromwel and the two Steuarts,,who
who held the reins of government after him. This able B O O K,xvIII. seaman, more supple and more insinuating than men com e monty are in his profession, had made considerable ad dances to government in the different expeditions in which he had been engaged. The misfortunes of the times had not suffered them to be repaid during his life, and as affairs were not in a better intuition at his death, it was proposed to his fen, that instead of money, he should accept of an immense territory in Am-rica. It was a country, which though long since discovered and surrounded by English colonies, had always been neglected 'he love of humanity made him accept with pleasure this kind of patrimony, which was ceded to him almost as a sovereignty, and he determined to make it the abode of virtue, and the asylum of the unfortunate. With this generous design, towards the end of the year x68t, he let fail for his new possessions, which from that time took the name of Pennsylvania. All the quakers were desirous to follow him, in order to avoid the per section railed against them by the clergy, on account of their not complying with the tithes and other ecclesiastical fees; but his prudence engaged him to take over no more than two thousand. His arrival in the new world was signalized by an aa Upon what of equity which made his person and principles equally principles beloved. Net thoroughly satisfied with the right given via Was him to his extensive territory, by the cession of the Resounded tiff minister, he determined to make it his own property by purchasing it of the natives. The price he gave to the savages is not known; but though some people accuse them of stupidity for consenting to part wich what they never ought to have alienated upon any terms ; yet Penn is not less entitled to the glory of having given an ex ample of moderation and justice in America, never sos 3 much
BO OK much as thought of before by the Europeans. He,. made his acquisition as valid as he could, and by these he-made of it he supplied any deficiency there might be in the legality of his title. The Americans conceived as great an affection for his colony, as they had conceived an aversion for all those which had been founded in their neighbourhood without their con sent. From that time there arose a mutual confidence between the two people, founded upon good faith, which nothing has ever been able to shake. PENN'S humanity could not be confined to the savages only; it extended itself to all thule who were desirous of living under his laws. Sensible that the happiness of the people depended upon the nature of the legislation, he founded his upon those two first principles of public splendor and private felicity, liberty and property. Here it is that the mind regis with pleasure upon modern history, and feels score kind of compensation for the disgust, horror or melancholy, which the whole of it, but parti clearly the account of the European settlements in America inspires. Hitherto we have only seen there Barbarians spreading depopulation before they rook possession, and laying every thing waste before they cultivated. It is time to observe the feeds of reason, happiness and humanity sown and springing up amidst the ruin of an he. sphere, which fill breaks with the blood of all its people civilized as well as savage this virtuous legislator made toleration the basis of his society. He admitted every man who acknowledged a God to the rights of a citizen, and made every christian eligible to state-employments. But he left every one at liberty to invoke the supreme being as he thought proper, and neither established a reigning church in Penfylvania,,nor
nor exacted contributions for building places of public O O K worship, nor compelled any persons to attend them. XVIIL JEALOUS of immortalizing his name, he vested in his family the right of nominating the chief governor of the colony; but he ordained that no profits should be annexed to his employment, except such as were voluntarily granted; and that he should have no authority without the concurrence of the deputies of the people. All the citizens who had an interest in the law, by having one in the circumstance the law was intended to regulates were to be: electors and might be chosen. To avoid as much as possible every kind of corruption, it was ordain ed that the representatives should be chosen by suffrages privately given. To establish a law of plurality of voices was sufficient ; but a majority of two thirds was necessary to fettle a tax. Such a tax as this was certainly more like a free gift than a subsidy demanded by government; but was it possible to grant less indulgences to men who were come so far in search of peace ? SUCH was the opinion of that real philosopher Penn. He gave a thousand acres to all those who could afford to pay 430 livres) for them. Every one who could not,. obtained for himself, his wise, each of his children above sixteen years old, and each of his servants fifty acres of land, for the annual quit-rent of one fol, ten deniers and a half (x) per acre. To fix these properties for ever he established tribunals to protect the laws made for the preservation of property. But it is not protecting the property of lands to make thole who are in possession of them purchase the law that secures them: for in that case one is obliged to give away part of one's property in order to secure the ret ; and law, in process of time, exhausts the very treasures its 4 should ('w) 919. is. 5d. (x) About one penny.
B O OK should preserve, and the very property it (hould defends Left any persons should be found whose interest it might,be to encourage or prolong law-suits, he sorbad under very first penalties all those who were engaged in the ad ministration of justice, to receive any salary or gratification whatsoever And further, every district was obliged to chuse three arbitrators, whose business it was to en devour to prevent, and make up any disputes that might' happen, before they were carried into a court of justice. THIS atrtnrion to prevent law-suits sprang from the desire of preventing crimes. All the laws, that they might have no vices to punish, were directed to put a flop to them even in their very sources, poverty and idle ness. It was enacted that every child above twelve years old, should be obliged to learn a profession, let his con edition be what it would. This regulation at the same time that it secured the poor man a subsistence, furnished the rich man with a resource against every reverse of for tune, preserved the natural equality of mankind, by re calling to every man's remembrance his original derivation which is that of labour, either of the mind or of the body such primary institutions would be necessarily pro ducive of an excellent legislation; and accordingly the advantages of that established by inn, manifested itself in the rapid and, continued prosperity of Pennsylvania, which, without either wars, or conquests, or struggles, or any of those revolutions which attract the eyes of the vulgar, soon became an object fit to excite the admiration of the whole universe. Its neighbours, notwithstanding their savage slate, were softened by the sweetness of its manners, and distant nations, notwithstanding their cor eruption, paid homage to its virtues. All were delighted to see those heroic days of antiquity realized, which Eu-european
european manners and laws had long taught every one to B 0 0 K,XVIII. consider as entirely fabulous. Pennsylvania is defended to the east by the ocean, to ProsPerity,of Pen lyle the north by New York and New Jersey, to the south mania. by Virginia and Maryland, to the West by the Indians; on all sides by friends, and within itself by the virtue of its inhabitants. Its coasts, which are at firs very narrow extend gradually to 120 miles, and the breadth of it, which has no other limits than its population and culture, already comprehends 145 miles. The sky of the colony is pure and serene, the climate very wholesome of itself, has been still rendered more so by cultivation, the waters equally salubrious and clear, always flow upon a bed of rock or sand; the year is tempered by the re gular return of the seasons. Winter, which begins in the month of January, lasts till the end a March. As it is seldom accompanied with clouds or fogs, the cold is, generally speaking, moderate; sometimes, however, sharp enough to freeze the largest rivers in one night. This revolution, which is as short as it is sudden, is occasioned by the north-weSt winds, which blow from the mountains and lakes of Canada; The spring is fired in by foot rains and by a gentle heat, which increases gradually till the end of June. The heats of the dog-days would be insupportable were it not for the refreshing breezes of the southwest wind , but this succour, though pretty constant, sometimes exposes them to hurricanes that blow down whole forests, and tear up trees by the roots, especially in the neighbourhood of the sea, where they are most violent. The three autumnal months are com monty attended with no other inconvenience but that of being too rainy. THOUGH the country is unequal, it is not less fertile. The soil in some places confess of a yellow black sand,,in
B O 6 Kin others it is gravelly, and sometimes it is a greyish ash . t . .V.upon a stony bottom ; generally speaking, it is a rich earth, particularly between the rivulets, which interfering it in all directions, contribute more to the fertility of the country than navigable rivers would. When the Europeans sires came into the country, they found nothing in it but wood for building and iron mines. In process of time, by cutting down the trees, and clearing the ground, they covered it with innumerable herds, with a great variety of fruits, with planta tions of flax and hemp, with many kinds of vegetables, with every fort of grain, and especially with rye and maize; which a happy experience had shewn to be par circularly proper to the climate. Cultivation was carried on in all parts with such vigour and success as excited the astonishment of all nations. From whence could arise this extraordinary prosperity From that civil and religious liberty which have attracted the Swedes, Dutch, French, and particularly some laborious Germans into that country. It has been the joint work of Quakers, Anabaptists, church of Eng- land-men, Methodists, Presbyterians, Moravians, Lu there's and Catholics.,AMONG the numerous sedes which abound in this country, a very distinguished one is that of the Dumplers. It was founded by a German, who, disgusted of the world, retired to an agreeable solitude within fifty miles of Philadelphia, in order to be more at liberty to give himself up to contemplation. Curiosity brought several of his countrymen to visit his retreat, and by degrees his pious, simple and peaceable manners induced them to fettle near him, and they all formed a little colony which they called Euphrates, in allusion to .the Hebrews, who used to sing psalms on the borders of that river.,THIS
THIS little city forms a triangle, the outsides of which B o o K are bordered with mulberry and apple-trees, planted with XVIII. regularity. In the middle of the town is a very large orchard, and between the orchard and there ranges of trees are houses, built of wood, three glories high, where every Sumpter is left to enjoy the pleasures of his me citations without disturbance. Thele contemplative men do not amount to above five hundred in all; their territory is about z5o acres in extent, the boundaries of which are marked by a river, a piece of stagnated water, and a mountain covered with trees. THE men and women live in separate quarters of the city. They never see each other but at places of worship nor are there any assemblies of any kind but for public business. Their life is taken up in labour, prayer and sleep. Twice every day and night they are called forth from their cells to attend divine service. Like the Methodists and Quakers every individual among them possesses the right of preaching when he thinks himself inspired. The favourite fubjeas on which they love to discourse in their assemblies, are humility, temperance, chastity, and the other christian virtues. They never violate the rest of the Sabbath, which is so much the delight of laborious as well as idle men. They admit a hell and a paradise ; but reject the eternity of future pu punishments. The doctrine of original fin is with them an impious blasphemy which they abhor, and in general every tenet cruel to man appears to them injurious to the divinity. As they do not allow merit to any but voluntary works, they only administer baptism to the adult. At the same time they think baptism so essentially ne cesare to salvation, that they imagine the fouls of christians in another world are employed in converting those who have not died under the law of the gospel.,STILL
BO O K STILL more disinterested than the Quakers, they never XVII. allow themselves any law-suits. One may cheat, roland abuse them without ever being exposed to any retaliation or even any complaint from them. Religion has the same effect on them that philosophy had upon the Stoics; it makes them insensible to every kind of insult. NOTHING can be plainer than their dress. In winter, it is made of a long white gown, from whence there hangs a hood, to serve instead of a hat, a coarse shirt, thick shoes, and very wide breeches. There is no great difference in summer, only that linen is used instead of woollen. The women are dressed much like the men, except the breeches their common food is only vegetable, not because it is unlawful to make use of any other, but because that kind of abstinence is looked upon as more conformable to the spirit of christianity which has an aversion for blood. Each individual follows with chearfulness the branch of business allotted to him. The produce of all their labours is deposited into a common stock, in order to supply the necessities of every one. Besides the cultivation manufactures, and all the arts necessary to the little society, which are thus produced by united industry, it affords a superfluous part for exchanges proportioned to the population. THOUGH the two sexes live separate at Euphrates, the Dumplers do not on that account foolishly renounce ma matrimony. But those who find themselves disposed to it leave the city, and form an establishment in the country, which is supported at the public expence. They repay this by the produce of their labours, which is all thrown into the public treasury, and their children are sent to be educated in the mother country. Without this wise privilege, the Dumplers would be nothing more than,monks,
monks, and in process of time would become either fa B 0 0 K,xvIII. wages or libertines. WHAT is most edifying and at the same time most ex extraordinary is, the harmony that subsist between all the sets established in Penfylvanians, notwithstanding the difference of their religious opinions. Though they are not all of the same church, they all love' and cherish one another as children of the same father. They have al ways continued to live like brothers, because they had the liberty of thinking as men. It is to this delightful harmony that it must attribute more particularly the ra pit progress of the colony. AT the beginning of the year 1756 its population amounted to 15o,cco white people. The number must have been considerably increased from that period, since it is doubled every fifteen years, according to Mr. Franklin's calculations. There were still thirty thousand blacks in the province, who met with less ill-usage in this province than in the others, but who were still ex exceedingly unhappy. A circumstance, however, not ea fly believed is, that the subjection of the negroes has not corrupted the morals of their masters; their manners are fill pure, and even austere, in Penfylvanians. Is this fin gular advantage to be ascribed to the climate, the laws, the religion, the emulation constantly subsisting between the different secs, or to Come other particular cause ? Let the reader determine this question. THE Penfylvanians are in general well made, and their women of an agreeable figure. As they sooner become mothers than in Europe, they sooner cease breeding. If the heat of the climate seems on the one hand to hasten the operations of nature, its inconstancy weakens them on the other. There is no place where the temperatures
B O K of the sky is more uncertain, for it sometimes changes five or fix times in the same day.,As however these varieties neither have any dangerous influence upon the vegetables, nor destroy the harvests, there is a constant plenty, and an universal appearance of ease. The economy which is so particularly attended to in Pennsylvania does not prevent both sexes from being well cloathed; and their food is still preferable in its kind to their clothing. The families, whose circumstances are the least easy, have all of them bread, meat, cyder, beer and rum. A very great number are able to afford to drink constantly French and Spanish wines, punch, and even liquors of a higher price. The abuse of there wrong drinks is less frequent than in other places, but is not without example. THE pleasing view of this abundance is never disturbed by the melancholy fight of poverty. There are no poor in all Pennsylvania. All those whose birth or fortune have left them without resources, are suitably provided for out of the public treasury. The spirit of benevolence is carried still further, and is extended even to the most engaging hospitality. A traveller-is welcome to flop in any place, without the apprehensions of giving the least uneasy sensation, except that of regret for his departure the happiness of the colony is not disturbed by the oppressive burden of taxes. In 1766, they did not amount to more than 280,140 livres.(y) Most of them, even those that were designed to repair the damages of war, were to cease in 1722. If the people did not experience this alleviation at that-period, it was owing to the irruptions of the savages, which had occasioned extraordinary ex pence. This trifling inconvenience would not have been attended to, if Penn's family could have been prevailed upon ;(y iz,z56l, zs, 6A.
upon to contribute to the public expences, in proportion B O O K to the revenue they obtain from the province: a circum Xvll fiance required by the inhabitants, and which in equity they ought to have complied with. the Penfylvanians, happy possessors, and peaceable tenants of a country that usually renders them twenty or thirty sold for whatever they lay out upon it, are not re strained by fear from the propagation of their species. There is hardly an unmarried person to be met with in the country. Marriage is only the more happy and the more reverenced for it; the freedom as well as the-sanity of it depends upon the choice of the parties: they chuse the lawyer and the priest rather as witnesses, than mi sisters of the engagement. Whenever two lovers meet with any opposition, they go off on horseback together, the man gets behind his mistress, and in this situation they present themselves before the magistrate, where the girl declares she has run away with her lover, and that they are come to be married. So solemn an avowal cannot be rejected, nor has any person a right to give them any mo relation. In all other cases, paternal authority is ex clive. The head of a family, whose affairs are in solved, is allowed to engage his children to his creditors; a punishment one should imagine very sufficient to induce a fond father to attend to his affairs. A man grown up acquits in one year's service a debt of 112 livres, o1 fols:(z) children under twelve years of age are obliged to serve till they are one and twenty, to pay 135 livres.(a) This is an image of the old patriarchal manners of the east. THOUGH there are several villages and even fine cities in the colony, most of the inhabitants may be said to live separately, as it were, within their families. Every pro-praetor (s) 41. miss, gd, farthing. (a) 51. i8s. id. halfpenny.
B-O O K'prietor of land has his house in the midst of a large plan-station entirely surrounded with quickset hedges. Of course each paris is near twelve or fifteen leagues in circumference This distance of the churches makes the ceremonies of religion have little effect, and till less in fluence. Children are not baptized till a few months, and ometiries not till a year or two after their birth. ALL the pomp of religion seems reserved for the las honours ran receives before he is but up in the grave for ever. As soon as any one is dead in the country, the nearer neighbours have notice given them of the day of burial. These spread it in the habitations next to theirs, and within a few hours the news is thus conveyed to a distance. Every family sends at leaf one person to at. tend the-funeral. As they come in they are presented with punch and cake. When the assembly is complete, the corpse is carried to the burying ground belonging to his fe, or if that should be at too great a distance, into one of the fields belonging to the family. There is ge neatly a train of four or five hundred persons on horse hbak, who observe a continual silence, and have all the ex eternal appearance suited to the melancholy nature of the ceremony. One singular circumstance is, that the Pen albanians who are the greatefi.enemies to parade during their lives, seem to forget. this character of modesty at their deaths. They all are desirous that the poor remains of their short lives should be attended with a funeral pomp suited to their rank or fortune.' IT is a general observation that plain and virtuous na tions, even savage and poor ones, are remarkably attach ed to the care of their burials. The reason of it is, that they look upon these last honours as duties of the fur vivors, and the duties themselves as so many distinct proofs of that principle of love, which is very strong inebriate
private families whilst they are in. a slate nearest to that BO O K. of nature. It is not the dying man himself who exacts there honours, it is his parents, his wise, his children, who voluntarily pay them to the ashes of a husband and father, that has deserved to be lamented. These cere monies have always more numerous attendants in small societies than in larger ones, because though there are fewer families upon the whole, the number of individuals there is much larger, and all the ties that connect them with each other are much stronger. This kind of intimate union has been the reason why so many small na tions have overcome larger ones; it drove Xerxes and the Persians out of Greece, and it will rome time or other expel the French out of Corsica. BUT from whence does Pennsylvania draw the materials for her own consumption, and in what manner does she contrive to be abundantly furnished with them? With the flax and hemp, that is produced at home, and the cotton she procures from South America, she fabricates a great quantity of ordinary linens; and with the wool that comes from Europe (he manufactures many coarse cloths. Whatever her own industry is not able to furnish, she purchases with the produce of her territory. Her ships carry over to the English, French, Dutch and Danish islands, biscuit, flour, butter, cheese, tallow, vegetables, fruits, fair meat, cyder, beer, and all forts of wood for building. The cotton, sugar, coffee, brandy and money they receive in exchange, are To many materials tor a. fresh commerce with the mother country, and with other European nations as well as with other colonies. The Azores, Madeira, the Canaries, Spain and Portugal, open an advantageous market to the corn and wood of Pennsylvania, which they purchase with wine and piastres. The mother country receives from Pennsylvania iron, flax, VOL. IV. T leather,
B O O K leather, furs, linseed oil, masts and yards, for which it L ., .returns thread, wool, fine cloths, tea, Irish and India,linens, hard-ware, and other articles of luxury or ne reality. As there, however, amount to a much greater sum than what it huff, England may be considered as a gulph in which all the metals Pennsylvania has drawn from the other parts of the world are sunk again. In 1723, England sent over goods to Pennsylvania only to the value of 250,000 livres;(b) at present she furnishes to the amount of ro,ooo,ooo.(r) This sum is too considerable for the colonists to be able to pay it, even in depriving themselves of all the gold they draw from other markets; and this inability must continue as long as the improve ment of their cultures Ihall require more considerable ad dances than their produce yields. Other colonies which enjoy almost exclusively some branches of trade, such as rice, tobacco and indigo, muff have grown rich very rapidly. Pennsylvania whose riches are founded on agri culture and the increase of her flecks, will acquire them more gradually; but her prosperity will be fixed upon a more firm and permanent basis. IP any circumstance can retard the progress of the co tony, it muff be the irregular manner in which the plan nations are formed. Penn's family, who arethe proprietors of all the lands, grant them indiscriminately in all parts, and in as large a proportion as they are required, provided they are paid fifty crowned) for each hundred acres, and that the purchasers agree to give an annual rent of about one solace) The consequence of this is, that the province wants that fort of connexion which is necessary in all things, and that the scattered inhabitants easily (b) o0,937L 1. . (c) 437,500. (d) 61. xIi. 3L,(e) About one halfpenny.
easily become the prey of the most insignificant enemy B.O O K that will venture to'attack them. THE habitations are cleared in different ways in the colony. Sometimes a huntsman will fettle in the midst of a forest, or quite close to it. His nearest neighbours assist him in cutting down trees, and heaping them up one over another: and this constitutes a house. Around this spot he cultivates, without any assistance, a garden or a field, sufficient to subsist himself and his family. A few years after the first labours were finished, some more active and richer men arrived from the mother country. They paid the huntsman for his pains, and agreed with the proprietors of the provinces for some lands that have not yet been paid for. ' hey built more commodious habitations, and cleared a greater extent of territory. AT length some Germans, who came into the new world from inclination, or were driven into it by per section, completed these settlements that were as yet unfinished. The first and second order of planters re moved their industry into other parts, with a more con miserable stock for carrying on their cultures than they had at first. THE annual exports of Pennsylvania may be valued at 25,000 tons. It receives four hundred Ships, and fits out about an equal number. They all or almost all come into Philadelphia, which is the capital, from whence they are also dispatched. THIs famous city, whose very name recalls every humane feeling, is situated at the conflux of the Delaware and the Schuylkill, about 120 miles from the sea. Penn, who destined it for the metropolis of a great empire, de signed it to be one mile in breadth, and two in length between the river;, but its population has proved infusions a cent
B O O Kcient to cover this extent ground. Hitherto they have %- - built only upon the banks of the Delaware; but without giving up the ideas of the legislator, or deviating from his plan. These precautions are highly proper: Phi ladelphia muff become the most considerable city of America, because it is impossible that the colony Should not improve greatly, and its productions must pass through the harbour of the capital before they arrive at the sea. The streets of Philadelphia, .which are all regular, are in general fifty feet broad; the two principal ones are a hundred. On each side of them, there are foot-paths, guarded by posts, placed at different distances. The houses, each of which has its garden and orchard, are commonly two stories high, and are built either of brick, or of a kind of soft stone, which grows hard by being exposed to the air. Till very lately the walls had but little thickness, because they were only to be covered with a very light kind of wood. Since the discovery of slate quarries, the walls have acquired a solidity proportioned to the weight of the new roofs. The present buildings have received an additional decoration from a kind of marble of different colours, which is found about a mile out of the town. Of this they make tables, chimney pieces, and other houshold furniture; besides which it is become a pretty considerable object of commerce with the greater part of America. THESE valuable materials could not have been com monty found in the houses, if they had not been lavished in the churches. Every sec has its own church, and some of them have several. THE town-house is a building held in as much veneration though not si much frequented as the churches. It is construed in the mos sumptuous magnificence. It is there that the legislators of the colony assemble every,year,
year, and more frequently if necessary, to fettle every B 0 0 K thing relative to public business i the whole of which is XVIII submitted to the authority of the nation in the persons of its representatives. Next to the town house is a most elegant library, which owes its existence to the care of the learned Door Franklin. In it are found the best English, French and Latin authors. It is only open to the public on Saturdays. Those who have founded it have a free access to it the whole year. The res pay a trifle for the loan of the books, and a forfeit if they are not returned in due time. This little fund constantly accumulating is appropriated to the increase of the library, to which have been lately added, in order to make it more useful, some mathematical and philosophical instruments, with a very fine cabinet of natural history. THE college, which is intended to prepare the mind for the attainment of all the sciences, was founded in 1749. At first, it only initiated the youth in the Belles Lettres. In 1764, a class of medicine was established there. Knowledge of every kind and adepts in the sciences will increase in proportion as the lands, which are become their patrimony, shall yield a greater produce. If ever despotism, superstition or war should plunge Eu rope again into that state of barbarism from whence phi sophy and the arts have drawn it, the sacred fire will be kept alive in Philadelphia, and come from thence to enlighten the world. This city is amply supplied with every affiance human nature can require, and with all the resources industry can make use of. Its keys, the principal of which is two hundred feet wide, present a suite of convenient warehouses and recesses ingeniously contrived for ship-building. Ships of five hundred tons may land there without any difficulty, except in the times of frost. There they load the merchandise which hast 3 either
B O O either come down the Schuylkill and Delaware, or along, roads better than are to be me with in most parts of Eu-trope. Police has made a greater progress in this part of the new world, than among the m6t1 ancient nations of the old. It is impossible to determine precisely the population of Philadelphia, as the bills of mortality are not-kept with any exactness, and there are several sets who do notchrifeo their children. It appears a fact, however, that in i766 it contained twenty thousand in habitants. As most of them are employed in the sale of the productions of the colony, and in supplying it with what they draw from abroad, it is impossible that their fortunes should not be very considerable; and they must increase still further, in proportion as the cultivation ad dances in a country where hitherto not above one sixth of the land has been cleared.,PHILADELPHIA, as well as Newcastle and the other cities of Pennsylvania, is intirely open. The whole country is equally without defence. This is a necessary consequence of the principles of the Quakers, who have always maintained the principal influence in the public de liberations, though they do not form above one third part of the population of the colony. These salaries cannot be too much favoured on account of their mo delft, probity, love of labour and benevolence. One might, perhaps, be tempted to accuse their legislation of imprudence and temerity when they established that civil liberty which protects one citizen from another, ought not the founders of the colony to have taken some pains for the maintenance of political liberty also, which protect one state from the en encroachments of another ? The authority which exerts itself to maintain peace and good order at home, seems to have done nothing if it has not prevented invasion from abroad.,To
To pretend that the colony would never have any ene Bx 0 0 mies, was to suppose the world peopled with Quakers . It was encouraging the strong to fall upon the weak, leaving the lamb to the mercy of the wolf, and giving up all the country to the oppressive yoke of the sirs tyrant who should think proper to subdue it. BUT on the other hand, how shall we reconcile the firmness of the gospel maxims by which the Quakers are litterally governed, with that appearance of force either for offence or defence, which puts all christian nations in a continual slate of war with each other ? Besides, what could the French or the Spaniards do if they were to enter Pennsylvania sword in hand ? Unless they should destroy in one night or in one day all the inhabitants of that fortunate region, they would not be able to cut off the race of those mild and charitable men. 'Violence has its boundaries in its very excess; it consumes and ex languishes itself, as the fire in th asses that feed it. But virtue, when guided by humanity and brotherly love, re animates itself as the tree under the edge of the pruning knife. Wicked men stand in need of numbers execute their sanguinary projets. But the jus man, or the Quaker, requires only a brother from whom he may re clive, or to whom he may give assistance. Let then the warlike nations, people who are either saves or tyrants, go into Pennsylvania; there they will find all avenues open to them, all property at their disposal; not a single soldier, but numbers of merchants and farmers. But if they are tormented, refrained or oppressed, they will fly, and leave their lands uncultivated, their manufactures de troyes, and their warehouses empty. They will-go and cultivate, and spread population in some new land; they will go round the world, and expire in their progress ra ther than turn their arms against their pursuers, or sub-,T 4 mit
BOO K mit to bear their yoke. Their enemies will have ac, , quire nothing, but the hatred of mankind and theories of posterity. Ir is upon this prospect and on this foresight, that the Penfylvanians have founded the opinion of their future security. At present they have nothing to fear from be hind, fine the French have lost Canada; and the flanks of the colony are sufficiently covered by the English set elements. As for the rest, as they do not see that the moRt warlike fates are the most durable, or that mistrust, which is always awake, makes them rest in greater quiet; or that there is any kind of satisfaction in the enjoyment of that which is held with so much fear; they live for the present moment, without any thought of a future day. Perhaps too, they may think themselves secured by those very precautions that are taken in the colonies that surround them. One of the barriers, or bulwarks that preserves Penfylvanians from a maritime invasion to which it is exposed, is Virginia. Wretched VIRGINIA, which was intended to denote all that ex Virgua at terse space which the English proposed to occupy in the its fire set continent of North-america, is at present confined with element.,in much narrower limits. It now comprehends only that country, which is bounded to the north by Maryland; to the south by Carolina ; to the weft by the Apalachian mountains, and to the east by the ocean. This (pace contains two hundred and forty miles in length, and two hundred in breadth.,IT was in 6bo6 that the English first landed at Vir ginia; and their first settlement was James-Town. Un fortunately the first objet that presented itself to them was a rivulet, which, issuing from a sand-bank, drew after it a quantity of talc, which glittered at the bottom of a clear and running water. In an age when gold and,filven
silver mines were the only objects of mens researches, B O O K this despicable substance was immediately taken for silver. Every other labour was instantly suspended to acquire it. And the illusion was so complete, that two ships which had arrived there with necessaries were sent home so fully freighted with these imaginary riches, that there scarce remained any room for a few furs. As long as the infatuation lasted, the colonists disdained to employ themselves in clearing the lands ; so that a dreadful famine was at lay the consequence of this foolish pride. Sixteen only remained alive out of five hundred that had come from Europe. These few, having only a fortnight's provision left, were upon the point of embarking for Newfound land, when lord Delaware arrived there with three hips, a fresh colony and supplies of all kinds. HISTORY has described this nobleman to us as a man whose genius railed him above the common prejudices of the times. His disinterestedness was equal to his know ledge. In accepting the government of the colony, which was still in its infancy, his only motives had been to gratify the inclination a virtuous mind has to do good, and to secure the esteem of posterity, which is the second reward ofithat generosity that devotes itself totally to the service of the public. As soon as he appeared the knowledge of his character procured him universal re pea. He began by endeavouring to reconcile the wretch ed colonists to their fatal country, to comfort them in their sufferings, to make them hope for a speedy conclu sion of them. After this, joining the firmness of an en lightened magistrate to the tenderness of a good father, he taught them how to direct their labours to an useful end. For the misfortune of the reviving colony, Delaware declining health soon obliged him to return to Eu sppe but he never lost fight of his favourite colonists,,nor,"'
B 00 Know ever failed to make use of all his credit and interest XVII.,at court to support them. The colony, however, made but little progress, a circumstance that was attributed to the oppression of exclusive privileges. The company which exercised them was-dissolved upon Charles the sirs's accession to the throne, and from that time Virginia was under the immediate direction of the crown, which exalted no more than a rent of z livres, 5 .fols(f) upon every hundred acres that were cultivated. TILL this moment the colonists had known no true enjoyment of property. Every individual wandered where chance directed him, or fixed himself in the place he liked belt, without consulting any titles or agreements. At length, boundaries were ascertained, and those who had been so long wanderers, now become citizens, had determined limits to their plantations. The establishment of this sis law of society changed the appearance of every thing. New buildings arose on all sides, and were surrounded by fresh cultivations. This activity :drew great numbers of enterprising men over to Virginia, who came either in search of fortune or of liberty, which is the only compensation for the want of it. The me .movable troubles that produced a change in the constitution of England added to these a multitude of Royalists, who went there with a resolution to wait with Berkley, the governor of the colony, who was also attached to king Charles, the decision of that deserted monarch's fate. Berkley fill continued to protect them, even after the king's death; but some of the inhabitants either seduced or intimidated, and seconded by the approach-of a power ful fleet, delivered up the colony to the Protector. If the governor was compelled to follow the dream against his will, he was, at least, among those whom Charles had,ho- (f) About two billings.
honoured with poles of confidence and ranks, the. la .who 0 0 K Submitted to Cromwell, and .he first .who look of his . yoke. This brave man was finking under the oppression of the times, when the voice of.the people recalled him to the place which his successor's death had left vacant.; but.far from yielding to thee flattering sollicitations, he declared that be never would serve any but the legitimate heirs of the dethroned monarch: Such an exampleof.mag- unanimity, at a time when there were no hopes of the restoration of the royal family, made such an impression upon the minds of the people, that Charles the second was proclaimed in Virginia before he had been proclaimed in England. Theology did not, however, receive all the benefit from such a step which might naturally have been expected from it. Whilst the court, on one hand, granted to rapacious men of family exorbitant privileges, which swallowed up the properties of several obscure colonists i the parliament, on the other, laid excessive taxes upon both the exports from and imports to Virginia. This double oppression drained all the resources and dispelled all the hopes of the colony; and to complete its misfortunes the savages, who had never been insufficiently ca effet, took that opportunity to renew their incursions wirt a spirit and uniformity of design that had never been yet known. SUCH a complication of misfortunes drove the Virgin, nians to despair. Berkley, who hed so long been their idol, was accused of wanting fortitude to resist the op pressions of the mother country, and activity to repel the irruptions of the savages. The eyes of all were immediately fixed upon Bacon, a young officer, full of viva city, eloquence and intrepidity, of an insinuating disposition and an agreeable person. They chore him for their,gentral
3 0 0 K general in an irregular and tumultuous manner. Thought. his military successes might have justified this prepossession of the licentious multitude, yet this did not prevent the governor from declaring Bacon a traitors his country A sentence so revere, and which was imprudent at the time, determined Bacon to assume a power by force which he had exercised peaceably and without op position for fix months. His death put a flop to all his projets. The malcontents, disunited by the death of their chief, and intimidated by the troops which were coming from Europe, were induced to sue for pardon, which was readily granted them. The rebellion, there fore, was attended with no bad consequences. Mercy insured obedience; and since that remarkable crisis the history of Virginia has been confined to the account of its plantations. Admonishes great establishment was governed at the begin fixation of Virginia. ing by persons placed at the head of it by the company virginia afterwards attracted the attention of the mother country, which in 1620 gave it a regular form of govern ment, composed of a chief, a council and deputies from each county; to whose united care the interests of the province were committed. At first, the council and re representatives of the people used to meet in the same room, as they do in Scotland. But in 1689 they divided, and had each their separate chamber, in imitation of the parliament of England. This custom has been conti need ever since. THE governor, who is always appointed by the king, and for an unlimited period, has the sole disposal of the regular troops, the militia and of all military employ ments, as well as the power of approving or rejecting whatever laws are proposed by the general assembly. Be sides this, with the concurrence of the council, to whiche
he leaves very little power in other matters, he may either B 0 0 K prorogue or entirely dissolve this kind of parliament: he '. chuses all the magistrates, and all the collectors of the revenue; he alienates the unoccupied lands in a manner suitable to the established forms, and disposes of the pub hic treasure. So many prerogatives, which lead on to usurpation, render government more arbitrary at Vir ginia than it is in the more northern colonies: they frequently open the door to oppression. THE council is composed of 12 members, created either by letters patent, or by particular order from the king. When there happen to be less than nine in the country, the governor chuses three out of the principal inhabitants to make up the number. They form a kind of upper house, and are at the same time to assist the ad ministration, and to counter-aA tyranny. They have also the power of rejecting all acts passed in the lower house. The salaries of the whole body amount to no more than 7,875 livres.(g) VIRGINIA is divided into 25'counties, each of which sends two deputies. James-town, and the college have each of them separately the right of naming one, which make up in all 52. Every inhabitant possessed of a free hold, except only women and minors, has the right of election, and that of being elected. I hough there is no time fixed by law for holding the general assembly, it commonly meets either once a year, or once in every two years; and the meeting is very seldom deferred till three. The frequency ofthefe meetings is infallibly kept up by the precaution of granting supplies only for a short time. All asks passed in the two houses must be lent over to the sovereign to receive his fashion, but till that returns they (g) 384/. xIO. lod. halfpenny.
O 0O They are always in force, when they hive been approved . [ . by the governorship public revenues of Virginia are collected from different sources, and appropriated in different manners. The tax of 2 livres, 5 fols,(h) upon every quintal of tobacco; that of 16 livres, 17 fols, and 6 deniers) per ton, whichever vessel, full or empty, is obliged to pay at its return from a voyage; that of 1 livre, 5 fols(k) a head exact from all passengers, slaves as well as free men, upon their arrival in the colony ; the penalties and forfeitures appointed by different as of the province; the duty upon both the lands and personal estates of those who leave no legitimate heir; there different articles, which together amount to 70,000 livres,(l) are to be employed in the current expences of the colony, accord ing to the direction of the governor and the council. The general assembly has nothing more to do in this mat ter but to audit the accounts. THIS assembly, however, has reserved to itself the sole disposition of the funds raised for extraordinary services. These arise from a duty of entrance upon strong liquors, from one of 22 livres, 1o fols,(m) upon every lave, and one of 16 livres, 17 fols,(n) upon every servant, not an Englishman, that enters the colony. A revenue of this nature muff be extremely variable, but in general it is pretty considerable, and has been usually well admit niftered.,BESIDES these taxes, which are paid in money, there are others paid in kind. They are a fort of a triple poll tax on the article of tobacco, which the white women only are exempted from. The first is raised by order of the general assembly, for the purpose of paying the ex-spencer (A) is. ixd. halfpenny. (i) x4. 9d. (k) 9s. sod. (1) 3,o6:/. 1o. (mi) lgs. Sd. farthing. (W) About zi. gd,
pence of its meeting, for that of the miKtia, and for sOOK some other national exigences. The second, which is , called provincial, is imposed by thejuftices of the peace in each county for its particular uses. The third is pa social, raised by the chief persons of the community, upon every thing that has more or less connexion with the established form of worship. IN the beginning justice was administered with that kind of disinterestedness which was itself the security for the equity observed in it. One single court had the cognizance of all causes, and used to decide them in a few days, leaving only an appeal to the general assembly, which was not leis diligent in terminating them. So good a system did not continue long: in 1692 all the statutes and formalities of the mother country were adopted, and all the chicanery of it was introduced along with them, Since that time every county has its lifting tribunal com posed of a Sheriff, his under officers and juries. From these courts all causes are carried to the council, where the governor presides; who has the power of determining finally in all concerns as far as 6,750 livres.(o) If the sums contended for are more considerable, the contest may be referred to the king: in all criminal matters, the council pronounces without appeal, not that the life of a ci tien is of lets consequence than his property, but be cause the application of the law is much easier in cri minas, than in civil causes. The governor has the right of pardoning in all cases but those of wilful murder and high treason, and even in there he may suspend the execution of the sentence till he has lent to know the king's pleasure. WITH repeat religion, the inhabitants not only be gan themselves by professing that of the church of England, (r) About 295s.
Boo-bland, but in. 1642 the afiembly.paffed a decree, which in. xvlide,direcU/y excluded all the .who should not be of this com union from the province. The necessity of peopling the country. on occasioned the repeal of this law, which was rather of a hierarchal than of a religious nature. A toleration granted so late, and evidently with reluctance, produced no great effect. Only five non-conformist churches were added to the colony, one of which con fired of presbyterians, three of quakers, and one of French refugees.,1'HE mother church has 39 parishes. Every parish chuses its minister, who must, however, be approved of by the governor before he takes possession. In some pa riches he is paid in land, and furnished with all the ne. effigy instruments for cultivating it; in others, his salary is.l6,ooo pounds weight of tobacco. Besides this he re cives either 5 livres, 12 fols, 6 deniers,(p) or fifty pounds of tobacco for every marriage; and 45 livres,(q) or four hundred pounds of tobacco for every funeral ser mon, which he is obliged to make over the grave of every free man. With all these advantages, molt of the clergy are not contented, because they may be deprived of their benefices by those who conferred them. AT first the colony was inhabited only by men; Coon after they grew desirous of fLaring the sweets of their si, tuition with female companions. In the beginning they, gave 2,250 livres) for every young person that was brought them, from whom they required no other dowry than a certificate of virtue. When the salubrity and ser utility of the climate were ascertained, whole families, and even some of referable condition, went over to fettle in Virginia. In time they increased to such a degree, that in. 703 there were already 66606 white people in the co-stony. (p) About r. sad. (7) il. g. 4d. halfpenny. (r) 98. $s. 9d,
tony. If since that time they have not increased above aB O O K sixth, it must be attributed to a pretty considerable emi. X oration occasioned by the arrival of the blacks. THE first of there haves were brought into Virginia by aDutchihip in 1621. Their number was not considerable at first, but the increase of them has been To pro vicious since the beginning of this century, that there are at present 1 1 o,ooo negroes in the colony; which occasions a double loss to mankind, first in exhausting the population of Africa, and secondly in preventing that of the Europeans in America. VIRGINIA has neither fortified places nor regular troops; they would be useless in a province, which from its si tuition and the nature of its productions, is protected both from foreign invasions, and the incursions of the savages wandering about this vast continent, who have long been too weak to attack it. . The militia, which is composed of all the free-men from sixteen to sixty years of age, is sufficient to keep the Raves in order. Every county re views all its troops once, and the separate companies three or four times a year. Upon the least alarm, given in any particular part of the. country, all the forces in it march. If they are out more than two days, they receive pay; if not, it is reckoned a part of their fated service. ' Such is the government of Virginia, and such is very nearly that of Maryland; which, after having been included in this colony, was separated from it for reasons which must be explained. CHARLES the first, far from having any aversion for the Marylan4,is detached catholics, had some reason to protect them, from thefi.om Vir zeal, which, in hopes of being tolerated, they had hewn ginia, for his interest. But when the accusation of being fa favourable to popery had alienated the minds of the people from that weak prince, whole chief aim was to establish Vol. IV. U a despotic
O o K despotic government, he was obliged to give the ca CV: (,tholics.up to the rigour of the laws enacted again thereby Henry the eighth. These circumstances induced lord Baltimore.to seek an asylum in Virginia, where he might be indulged ina liberty of conscience. As he found there botheration for an exclusive faith, which was itfelfin- tolerant, he formed the design of a new Settlement in that uninhabited part of the country, which lay between the river of Potomac and Pennsylvania. His death, which happened loon after he bad obtained powers from the crown for peopling this land, put a flop to the pro sea for that time, but it ras resumed from the same re litigious motives by his son. This young nobleman left England in the year 1633, with two hundred Roman catholics, most of them of good families. The education they. had received, the cause of religion for which they left their country, and the fortune which their leader promised them, prevented those disturbances which are but too common in infant settlements. The neighbour, ing savages,. prevailed upon by mildness and a&s of be beneficence, concurred with eagerness to lift the new. co lonifs in forming their settlement. With this unexpected help these fortunate persons, attached to each other by the same principles of religion, and directed by the prudent councils of their chief, applied themselves una piously to every kind of useful labour: the view of the peace and happiness they enjoyed, invited among them a number of men who were either persecuted for the same religion, or for different opinions the catholics of Maryland gave up at length the in tolerant principles, of which they themselves had been the aims after having first set the example of them, and opened the doors of their colony to all sects of what religious principles soever. Baltimore also granted the,rolkt
moil'extenfive civil liberty to every stranger who chose toB 0 0 K,XVIII. purchase lands in his new colony, the government of . which was modelled upon that of the mother country. THEsE wise and generous precautions, however, did not Secure the governor, at the time of the. subversion of the monarchy, from losing all the rights and concessions that. he had obtained. Deprived of his possessions by Cromwell, he was restored to them by Charles the fe conc; after which they were again disputed with him. Though he was perfectly clear from any reproach of mal administration ; and though he was extremely zealous for the Tramontane doctrines, and much attached to the in terris of the Stuartss; yet he had the mortification of find ing the legality of his charter attacked under the arbi tray reign of James the second; and of being obliged to maintain an action at law for the jurisdiction of a province which had been ceded to him by the crown, and which he himself had peopled. This prince, whose misfortune it had always been never to have known his friends from his foes ; and. who had also the ridiculous pride to think that regal authority was sufficient justify every aEt of violence, was preparing a second time to deprive Bal timor, of what had been given him by the two kings, his father and his brother; when he was himself removed from the throne which he filled so ill.' The successor of this weak despotic prince terminated this contest, which had arisen before his accession to the crown, in a manner worthy of his political character. He left the Baltimore in.poffefl.on of their revenues, but deprived them of their authority, which, however, they likewise recovered upon becoming members of the church of England. THE province is at present divided into eleven counties and inhabited by 40,000 white men and 60,ooo blacks. It is governed by a chief, who is named by theol a pro.
3Bo 0K proprietor, and by a council and two deputies chosen' each county. The governor, like the king in the other colonies, has a negative voice in all 2as proposed by the assembly, 'that is to say, the right of rejecting them. Virginia IF Maryland were re-united to Virginia, as their com and My mon interest seems to require, no difference could be land cul "" tivate the found between the two settlements. They are situated duaioa. between Pennsylvania and Carolina, and occupy the great,Ipace that extends from the sea to the Apalachian mountains The air, which is damp oi the coast, becomes light, pure and subtle, as one approaches the mountains. The spring and autumn months are of an excellent temperature in summer there are some days excessively hot, and in winter some extremely cold; but neither of there excefes-lafts above a week at a time. The most disagree able circumstance in the climate is the abundance of nauseous infers that are found there. ALL the domestic animals multiply prodigiously; and all forts of fruits, trees and vegetables succeed there ex extremely well. There is the heft corn in all America. The soil, which is rich and fertile in the low lands, is always good, even in those places where it becomes sandy; more irregular than it is described by some travellers, but to tolerably even till one comes near the mountains. FROM these reservoirs an incredible number of rivers low, most of which are separated only by an intervals five or fix miles. Besides the fertility which these waters impart to the country they pass through, they also make it infinitely more convenient for trade than any other part of the new world, from facilitating the communications,,MOsT of these rivers have a very extensive inland na navigation for merchant lips, and some of them for men of war. One may go near two hundred miles up the Po towmack, above eighty up the James the York, and,the
the. Rapahannock, and upon the other rivers to a distance B o o K,, . Xvii. that varies according as the cataract are more or less ~ distant from their mouths. All there navigable canals, formed by nature, meet in the bay of Chesapeake, which has from seven to nine fathom water both at its entrance and in, its whole extent. It reaches above two hundred' miles in the inland parts of the country, and is about twelve miles in its mean breadth: Though it is full of small islands, mos of them covered with wood, it is by no means dangerous, and so large that all the ships in the universe might ride there with case. .So uncommon an advantage has prevented the forma, tion of any large towns in the two colonies, and accord singly the inhabitants who were assured that the ships would come up to their warehouses, and that they might embark their commodities without going from their own houses, have dispersed themselves upon the borders of the several rivers. In this situation, they found' all the pleasures of a rural life, united to all the ease that trade brings into cities; they found the facility of extending their cultivation in a country that had no bounds, united to all the assistance which the fertilization of the lands receives from commerce. But the mother country sus served a double inconvenience from this dispersion of the colonists; first, because her sailors were longer absent, from being Obliged to collect their cargoes from there feat tered habitations; and secondly, because their ships are exposed to injury from those dangerous infects, which in the months of June and July infest all the rivers of this distant region. The ministry has therefore neglected no means of engaging the colonists to ellablii staples for the reception of their commodities. The constraint of the laws has not had more effect than persuasion. At length, a few years ago, forts were ordered to be built at the en-,U 3 trance
0 0 K trance of every river, to protect the loading and unload-sing of the this. If this project had not failed in the execution from the want of a sufficient fund, it is pro able that the inhabitants would have collected imper ceptibly round each of thee fortresses. But it may still be question whether this circumstance would not have proved fatal to population; and whether agriculture might not have lost as much as commerce would have gained by it. BE this as-it may, it is certain that there are but two towns at present of any kind of note in the two colonies. Even those which are the feat of go ernest are of no great importance. Williamsburg, the capital of Vir ginia, and Annapolis that of Maryland, the fill risen upon the ruins of James town, the other upon those of St. Mary, are neither of them superior to one of our common viJages.,As in all human affairs, every good is attended with some kind of evil, so it has happened, that the increase of habitations by retarding the population of towns, has pre vented any artists or manufacturers from being formed in either of the provinces. With all the materials necessary to supply th m with most of their wants, and even with several of their conveniences, they are fill obliged to draw from Europe their cloths, linens, hats, hardware, and even furniture of the most ordinary kind these numerous and general expences have exhausted the inhabitants; besides which they have vied with each other in vilifying every kind of luxury before all the English m.echnrs, who visit their plantations from mo times of commercial interest. By these means, they have run so much in debt with the mother country, that many of them have been obliged to sell netherlands or, in order still to keep possession of them, to mortgage them at an usurious interest of eight or nine per cent.,Ir
IT will be no earl matter for the two provinces ever toB 0 0 emerge from this desperate state. Their navy does not,. . amount to above a thousand tons, and all they send to the Caribbee islands in corn, cattle and planks; all they ex petite for Europe in hemp, flax, leather, peltry and walnut-tree or cedar-wood, does not bring them a return of more than a millions) The only resource they have left is in tobacco. TOBACCO is a sharp, caustic. and even venomous plant, which has been formerly of great repute, and is till used in medicine. Every body is acquainted with the general consumption made of it, by shewing, smoaking or taking snuff. Twas discovered in the year 152o by the Spa niards, who found it first in the Jucatan, a large peninsula in the gulph of Mexico, from whence it was carried into the neighbouring islands. Soon after, the use of it be came a matter of dispute among the learned, which the ignorant also took a part in; and thus tobacco acquired some reputation. By degrees fashion and custom have greatly extended its consumption in all parts ot the known world. It is at present cultivated with more or less success in Europe, Asia, Africa and several parts of America THE stem of this plant is straight, hairy and viscous; and its leaves are thick, flabby, and cf a pale green co lour. They are larger at the bottom than at the summit of the plant. It requires a soil of a good confidence but rich, even and deep, and not too much exposes to inundations. A virgin soil is very fie for this vegetable, which requires a great deal of Tap. THE feeds of the tobacco are sown in layers. When it has grown to the height of two inches, and has got, at least, half a dozen leaves, it is gently pulled up in,.U 4 damp (s) 43,750ol
o 0OK damp weather, and transplanted with great care. into a , * ~ well-prepared soil, where the plants are placed at resistance of three feet from each other. When they are put into tlhe.ground with there precautions, their leaves do not sussex tee lea. injury i and all their vigour is re need in four and twenty hours the cultivation of tobacco requires continual attention The weeds which gather about it mute be plucked up; the head of it mull be cut off when it is the size of two feet and a half, to prevent it from growing too high it must be stripped of all sprouting suckers the leaves which grow too low down upon the shem, thole that are in the least inclined to decay, and those which the insets have touched, mull all be removed, and their number reduced to eight or ten at most. A single industrious man is able to take care of two thousand, five hundred plants, which ought to yield one thousand weight of tobacco. It is left about four months in the ground. As it advances to maturity, the pleasant and lively green colour of its leaves is changed into a darker hue; the leaves are also curved, and the snell they exhale is increased, and ex tends to a greater distance. The plant is then ripe and must be cut.,THE plants, when collected, are laid in heaps upon the same ground that produced them, where they are left to exfude only for one night. The next day they are laid up in warehouses, confirmed in such a manner, that the airamay have a free access to them on all sides. Here they are left separately suspended as long a time as is ne ciliary to dry them well. They are then spread upon hurdles and well covered over, where they ferment for a weep or two. At half they are stripped of their leaves, which are either put into barrels, or made up into rolls. The other methods of preparing the plant, which vary v,-;4 ac-according
to the different tastes of the several nations that-B 0 0oc use it, have nothing to do with its cultivation. . 1 OF all the countries in which tobacco has been plant ed, there is none where it has answered so well as in Ma roland and Virginia. As it was the ont. occupation of the first planters, they often cultivated much more than they could find a (ale for. 'I'hey were then obliged to stop the growth of the plantations in Virginia, and to burn a certain number of plants in every habitation throughout Maryland. But in process of time the uses of this herb became so general that they have been obliged to increase the number both of the whites and blacks who are employed in preparing it. At present each of the provinces furnishes nearly an equal quantity. That from Virginia, which is the mildest, the most per fumed, and the dearest, is consumed in England and in the southern parts of Europe. That of Maryland is fitter for the northern climates, from it cheapness, and even from its coarseness, which makes it better adapted to less delicate organs. As navigation has not yet made the same progress in these provinces, as in the red of North-america, the tobacco is commonly transported in the ships of the mo ther country. They are very often three, four, and even fix months in completing their cargo. This delay arises from several very evident causes. Firs, as there are no magazines or general receptacles for the tobacco, it is ne cellar to go and fetch it from the several plantations. Se fondly, few planters are able to load a whole ship if they would, and if they were, they would not chuse to venture their whole upon one bottom. In Short, as the price of the freight is fixed, and is always the same, whether the articles are ready for embarkation or not, the planters wait till they are pressed by the captains them-selves
B Took selves to hatsen the exportation. All these several rear,'sons are the cause why vessels only of a moderate size are generally employed upon this service. The larger they would be, the longer time they would be detained in America. VIRGINIA always pays forty-five livres) freight for every barrel of tobacco, and Maryland only 39 livres, 5 fols, 6 deniers.(u) This difference is owing to the less value of the merchandise, and to the greater expedition made in loading it. The English merchant loses by the carriage; but it is made up to him by the com missions. As he is always employed in all the sales and purchases made for the colonists, he is amply compensated for his-losses and his trouble, by an allowance of five per cent. upon these commissions. THIS navigation employs two hundred and fifty (hips, which make up in all 30,00oo tons. They take in a hundred thousand barrels of tobacco from the two colo nies, which, at the rate of eight hundred pounds a barrels make eighty millions of pounds weight. That part of the commodity which grows between York and James rivers, and in some other places, is extremely dear; but the whole. taken upon an average fells only for four fols, three deniers) a pound in England, which makes in all 16,875,o0o livres.(y) Besides the advantage it is of to England to exchange its manufactures to the amount of this rum, it gains another by the re-exportation of four fifths of the tobacco. This alone is an object of lo,i25,oco livres,(z) besides what is to be reckoned for freight and commission. THE customhouse duties are a fill more considerable objet to government. There is a tax of Ix fols, to,de- (t) L. g19,4d. halfpenny. (u) 1 . 5d.; farthing. fx) Not ad. farthing. (Y) 738s,s51 ss. (z) 44i,g6s1. Miss.
deniers and a half(a) upon every pound of tobacco that B o o K enters the kingdom; this, supposing the whole eighty .v millions of pounds imported to remain in it, would bring the fate 47,499,997 livres, o fols ;(b) but as four fifths are re-exported, and all the duties are remitted upon that portion, the public revenue gains only 19,000,000 livres, 2 fols, 7 deniers (c) Experience teaches that a third of this must be deduced for prompt payment of what the merchant has a right to be eighteen months in paying, and to allow ser the smuggling that is carried on in the small ports as well as in the large ones. I his deduction will amount to 6,333,'351 livres, I8 Ills, 6 deniers,(d) and there will consequently remain for government no more than 12,666,71 5 livres, 17 fols, 6 dehiers.(,) NOTWITHSTANDING there last abuses, Virginia and Maryland are much more advantageous to Great Britain than the other northern colonies, more so even than Carolina CAROLINA extends three hundred miles along the coast, Origin of which is two hundred miles broad, as far as the Appalachian mountains. It was discovered by the Spaniards, soon after the first expeditions in the new world; but as they found no gold there to satisfy their avarice, they def piled it. Admiral Coligny, with more prudence and ability, opened an asylum there to the industry of the French protestants ; but the fanaticism that pursued them soon destroyed all their hopes, which were totally lost in the murder of that just, humane and enlightened man. Some English succeeded them towards the end of the 16th century: who, by an unaccountable caprice, were in duce to abandon this fertile obll, in order to go and cul-private (a) About 6d farthing. (b) o758,z41. 175. 9d. 3 farthings, (c) 3S;,25ol. ox. id. facing (d) 277,o084d, a. id, farthing. (e) 554,i681. i6j, 4d. halfpenny.
BO OK tivate a more ungrateful land, and in a less agreeable . climate. System of THERE was not a single European remaining in Ca rthgiou$ nd civil carolina, when the lords Berkeley, Clarendon, Albemarle, goEr . Craven and Ashley; Sir George Carteret, Sir William blind by Berkeley and Sir William Collection obtained from Charles Like in the second in 1663 a gran: of that fine country. Thespian of government for this new colony was laid down by the famous Locke. A philosopher, who was a friend to mankind, and to that moderation and juice which ought to be the rule of their nations, could not find better means to oppose the prevalence of fanaticism, than by an unlimited toleration in matters of religion; but not daring openly to attack the prejudices of his time, which were as much the effet of the virtues as of the crimes of the age, he endeavoured, at leal, to reconcile them, if possible, with a principle of reason and humanity. The wild inhabitants of America, said he, have no idea of a revelation; it would, therefore, be the height of ex travagace tomake them sussex further ignorance. The different sees of christians, who might come to people the colony, would, without doubt, expect a liberty of conscience there, which priests and princes refuse them in Europe: nor Should Jews or Pagans be reseated on ac count of a blindness, which lenity and persuasion might contribute to remove. Such was the reasoning of Mr. Locke with men prejudiced and influenced by opinions, which no one hitherto had taken the liberty to call in question. Disgusted with the troubles and misfortunes which the different fyfeims of religion had given birth to in Europe, they readily acquiesced in the arguments he proposed to them. They admitted toleration in the same manner as intolerance is received, without examining into the merits of it. The only restriction laid upon this,saving
raving principle was, that every person, claiming the B 0 0 t protection of that settlement, should at the age of seven x, teen register themselves in some particular communion. THE English philosopher was not so favourable to civil liberty. Whether it were, that those, who had fixed upon him to trace out a plan of government, had re strained his views, as will be the case with every writers who employs his pen for great men, or ministers; or. whether Locke, being more of a metaphysician than at statesman, pursued philosophy only in those tracts which' had been opened by Descartes and Leibnitz; the same man, who had dissipated and destroyed so many errors in his theory concerning the'origin of ideas, made but very feeble and uncertain advances in the path of legislation. The author of a work, whose continuance will render the glory of the French nation immortal, even when tyranny shall have broken all the springs, and all the monuments of the genius, and merit of a people esteemed by the whole world for so many amiable and brilliant qualities; even Montesquieu himself did not perceive that he was making men for governments, instead of making governments for men. THE code of Carolina, by a singularity not to be ac counted for in an Englishman and a philosopher, gave to the eight proprietors, who founded the settlement and to their heirs, not only all the rights of a monarch,' but likewise all the powers of legislation. THE court, which was composed of this sovereign body, and was called, the Palatine Court, was invested with the right of nominating to all employments indignities and even with that of conferring nobility; but under new and unprecedented titles. For instance, they were to create, in each county, two Caciques, each of whom was to be possessed of twenty-four thousand,acres
B ~ O.K acres of land ; and a Landgrave, who was to be poflefled,o f urfcore thousand. The persons, on whom. these honours should be bestowed, were to compose the upper house; and their possessions were made unalienable; a circumstance totally inconsistent with good policy. They had only the right of farming or letting out a third part of them at the molt for the continuance of three lives. THE lower house was formed of the deputies from the several counties and towns. The number of this representative body was to be increased in proportion as the colo ny grew more populous. No tenant was to pay more than one livre, two fols and fix deniers) per acre; and even this rent was redeemable. All the inhabitants, however, both saves and freemen, were under an obligation to take arms upon the first order they should receive from, the Palatine Court. IT was not long before the faults of a constitution, in which the powers of the fate were so unequally divided, began to discover themselves. The proprietary lords, in influenced by despotic principles, used every endeavour to establish an arbitrary government. On the other hand, the colonists, who were not ignorant of the general right of mankind, exerted themselves with equal zeal to avoid servitude. From this struggle of opposite interests arose an inevitable confusion, which put a flop to every useful effort of industry. The whole province, distracted with quarrels, dissentions and tumults, was rendered incapable of making any progress, whatever improvements had been expected from the peculiar advantages of its situation. Nor were there evils sufficient: new ones arose, as if a remedy could only be attained from an excess of grievances Granville, who, as the oldest of the proprietors, casein (f) About a Shilling.
in t70.5 Soe, governor of the'colony,- formed the refoltu-B O O . tion of obliging all the non-conformists, who made uP. W I two thirds f the people, to embrace the forms. of worn laip.efiablifhed in England. This aCt of.violence,.thoughi disavowed, and rejected by stepmother country, inflamed: the.minds.of the people. In 1:720, while this animosity was till prevailing, the province was. attacked by. several bands savages, driven to.defpair by continued course of the nmoit atrocious insolence: and injustice. Those un fortunate wretches were all conquered and all put to the sword: but the courage and vigour, which this warre lived in the breasts of theologist, was the prelude. to the fall cf their oppressors. Those tyrants-having refused to contribute to the expences of an expedition, the im mediate benefits of which they claimed to thersites, were all, excepting Carteret, who still preserved one eighth of the country, stripped in 1728 of their prerogatives which they had! only known how to make an ill use of. They received however 540,o00 livres) by way of compensation. From this time, the crown re. fumed the government, and in, order to give the colony a foretaste of its moderation, bellowed on it the same con friction as on others. It was further divided into two separate governments, under the names of North and South Carolina, in order to facilitate the administration of it. It is from this happy period, that the prosperity of this great province is to be dated there is not, perhaps, throughout the new world a climate climate to be compared with that of Carolina. The two and po.,duet of reasons of the year, which, for the most part, only. carolina moderate the excesses of the two others, are here.delight- ful. 'I he heats of the sumner are not excessive; and the cold of the winter is only felt in the mornings and even-sings. (0) 3,6z51.
B O OK kings-the fogs, which are always common upon a coast ~ . of any length, are dispersed before the'middle of the day.,But on the other hand, here, as well as in every 'other part almost of America, the inhabitants are fubje 'to such sudden and violent changes of weather, as oblige them to observe a regularity in their diet and cloathing; which would be unnecessary in a more fettled climate. Another inconvenience, peculiar to this trac of the northern continent, is that of being tormented with hurricanes but there are lets frequent and less violent than in the islands. A vast, melancholy, uniform, unvaried plain extends from the seashore fourscore or a hundred miles within land. From this distance the country, beginning to rise, affords a more pleasing prospect, a purer and dryer air. This part, before the arrival of the English, was covered with one immense forest, reaching as far as the Appalachian mountains. It consisted of large trees growing, as nature had cars them, without order or design, at un equal distances, and not encumbered with underwood: by which means more land could be cleared here in a week, than in several months, among us. THE soil of Carolina is very various. On the coast and about the mouths of the rivers, which fall into the sea, it is either covered with impracticable and unhealthful morasses, or made up of a pale, light, randy earth, which produces nothing. In one part it is barren to an extreme; in another, among the numberless streams that divide the country, it is excessively fruitful. At a dilanice from the coasts, there are found sometimes large wastes of white sand, which produce nothing but pines; at others there are lands, where the oak and the walnuts tree announce fertility. These alternatives and variations,cease,
cate, when.you get into the inland parts; and the count 0 K try.cfvqF.y where, is agreeable and rich. . .ADMIRABLY adapted as these spots are for the purposes of.cultia:,jio,^ the province does not want others equally .favourable fort threading of cattle. Thousands of horned cattle refrained here, which gout in the morn ing.without. a herdsman to feed in the woods, and return horne ad night of their, own accord. Their hogs, which. are suffered to fatten themselves in the same manner, are fill more numerous and much better in their kind. But mutton degenerates there both in flesh and wool. For this reason, it is less common. IN 1723, the whole colony confided of no more than four thousand white people, and thirty-two thousand blacks. Its exportations to other parts of America and to Europe did not exceed 4,950,000 livres.(h) Since that time it hath acquired a degree of splendour, which it owes entirely to the enjoyment of liberty. SOUTH CAROLINA, though it hath succeeded in establishing a considerable barter trade with the savages, hath gained a manufacture, of linens by means of the French refugees, and invented a new kind of fluff by mixing the silk it produces with its wool ; yet is its progress prin finally to be attributed' to the produce of rice and in dig. THE first of these articles was brought there by an accident. A ship, on its return from India, ran aground on this coast, it was laden with rice, which, being tossed on shore by the waves, grew up again. This un expected good fortune led them to try the cultivation of a commodity, which the foil seemed of itself to require. For a long time little progress was made in it; because the colonists being obliged to send their crops to the mo VoL. IV. X theresa) a16,562.a so,
So K ther country, from whence they were (hipped again for Xvii-Spain and Portugal, where the consumption was, fold them at so low a price, that it scarce answered the ex prices of cultivation. Since 1730, when a more en lightened ministry gave them permission to export and sell their grain themselves at foreign markets, an increase of profit has produced an additional growth of the commo city. The quantity is at present greatly augmented and may be fRill more; but whether so much to the benefit of the colony is doubtful: Of all productions rice is the most detrimental to the salubrity of the climate; at leat, it hath been esteemed so in the Milanese, where the pea wants on the rice-grounds are all of them fallow com pensioned and dropsical; and in France,. where that ar title hath been totally prohibited. Egypt had, without doubt, its precautions against the ill vessels of a grain in other respect so nutritious. China plus also-have its preservatives, which art sets up against nature, whose favours are sometimes attended with pernicious consequences Perhaps, also, under the torrid zone, where rice grows in the greatest abundance, the heat, which makes it flourish in the midst of water, quickly disperses the moist and noxious vapours, that exhale from the rice fields. Put if the cultivation of rice should one day come tc be neglected in Carolina, that of indigo will make ample amends for it.,THIs plant, which is a native of Indian, was first brought to perfection in Mexico, and the Leeward islands. It was tried later and with less success in South-carolina, This principal ingredient in dying is there of so inferior a quality, that it is scarce sold at half the price it bears in other places. Yet those, who cultivate it, do not despair, in time, of supplanting both the Spaniards and French at every market. The goodness of their climate,,the
the extent of their lands, the plenty and cheapness ofB 0 0 K their provisions, the opportunities they have of supplying . themselves with utensils, and of procuring slaves; every thing, in short, flatters their expectation: and the same hope has always extended itself to the inhabitants of North-carolina. It is well known that this country was the-first on the continent of the new world, on which the English landed; for here is the bay of Roanoak, which Ralegh took possession of in 1585. A total emigration, in a short time, left it destitute of colonists; nor did it begin to be repeopled, even when large settlements were ella blushed in the neighbouring countries. We cannot other wise account for this dereliction, than from the obstacles which trading vessels had to encounter in this beautiful region. None of its rivers are deep enough to admit Ships of more than seventy or eighty tons. Those of greater burthen are forced to anchor between the conti went and some adjacent sands. The tenders which are employed invading and unfading them augment the ex pence and trouble both of their exports and imports. FROM this circumstance, probably, it was, that North Carolina in the beginning was inhabited only by a set of wretches Without name, laws, or profession. In pro portion as the lands in the neighbouring colonies grew more scarce, those, who were not able to purchase them, betook themselves to a country where they could get lands without purchase. Refugees of other kinds availed them selves of the same resource. Order and property became established at the same time.; and this colony, with fewer advantages than South-carolina, obtained a greater num ber of European settlers. THE first people, whom chance dispersed along these ravage coats confined themselves to the breeding of,X 2 cattle,
B 0 0 Cattle, and cutting wood, which were taken off their hands by the merchants of New-england. In a short time they contrived to make the pine-tree produce them turpentine, tar, and pitch. For the turpentine they had nothing to do but to make two flits in the trunk of the tree, about a foot in length, at the bottom of 'which they placed vfelds to receive it. When they wanted tar, they raised a circular platform of potter's earth, on which they laid piles of pine-wood: to there they set fire and the resin distilled from them into casks placed underneath. The tar was converted into pitch, either in great iron pots, in which they boiled it, or in pits formed of pot ter's earth, into which it was poured while in a fluid fate. This labour, however, was not sufficient for the maintenance of the inhabitants: they then proceeded to grow corn; and for a long time were contented with maize, as their neighbours in South-carolina were ob lige to be, where the wheat being subject to mildew, and to exhaust itself in straw, never throve. But several experiments having proved to the North-Carolinians that they were not liable to the same inconvenience, they succeeded so far in the cultivation of that grain, that they were even able to supply a considerable exportation. Rice and indigo have been but lately introduced into:this province to join the harvests of Africa and Asia to those of Europe. The cultivation of them is but yet in its infancy. THERE is farce one twentieth part of the territory belonging to the two Carolinas that is cleared; and, at this time, the only cultivated spots are those, which are the most sandy and the nearer to the lea. The reason, why the colonists have not fettled further back in the country is, that of ten navigable rivers, there is not one that will admit shipping higher than sixty miles. This,in-
inconvenience is not to be remedied but by making roads B 0 0 K,XvIII. or canals; and works of that kind require Co many hands,, X and so much expence and knowledge, that the hopes of such an improvement are still very distant. NEITHER of the colonies, however, have reason to complain of their lot. The imposts, which are all levied on the exportation and importation of merchandise, do not exceed 135,ooo livres.(i) The paper-currency of North Carolina does not amount to more than 1,125,000 li res ;(k) and that of South-carolina, which is infinitely more wealthy, is only 5,625,ooo.(l) Neither of them-are in debt to the mother country; and this advantage, which is not common even in the English colonies, they derive from the great amount of their exportations to the neigh pouring provinces, the Leeward islands and to Europe. IN 1754, there were exported from South Carolina, seven hundred and fifty-nine barrels of turpentine, two thousand, nine hundred and forty-three of tar; five thou sand, eight hundred and sixty-nine of pitch or rosin; four hundred and sixteen barrels of beef; fifteen hundred and sixty of pork; sixteen thousand four hundred bushels of Indian corn; and nine thousand, one hundred and sixty two of peas; four thousand, one hundred and eighty tanned hides, and twelve hundred in the hair; one mil lion, one hundred and forty thousand planks; two hundred and fix thousand joists; and three hundred and eighty five thousand feet of timber; eight hundred and eighty two hogsheads of wild deer-skins; one hundred and four thousand, fix hundred and eighty-two barrels of rice; two hundred and sixteen thousand, nine hundred and eighty-four pounds of indigo.,IN the same year North Carolina exported sixty-one thousand, five hundred and twenty-eight barrels of tar;,X 3 twelve 59) gill. 5J. (k) 49,118/. 15 . (1) 246,093/. 'S.
B O O K twelve thousand and fifty-five of pitch; and ten thousand, XVI. four hundred and twenty-nine of turpentine; seven hundred and sixty-two thousand, three hundred and thirty planks ; and two thousand fix hundred and forty-seven feet of timber; sixty-one thousand, five hundred bushels of wheat, and ten thousand of peas; three thousand, three hundred barrels of beef and pork; one hundred hogsheads of tobacco; ten thousand hundred-weight of tanned hides, and thirty thousand skins of different kinds.,IN the above account, there is not a single article that has not been considerably increased since that time. Se vernal of them have been doubled, and the most valuable of all, the indigo, has increased to three times the quantity SOME productions of North Carolina are exported to Europe and the Caribbees, though there is no staple town to receive them; and that Edition, the ancient capital of the province, as well as that which hath been built in lieu of it upon the river News, can farce be considered as small villages. The largest and most valuable part of its exports is conveyed to Charles-town to increase the riches of. South Carolina. THIS town lies between she two navigable rivers, Cooper-and Ashley; surrounded by the most beautiful plantations of the colony, of which it is the center and the capital. It is well built, interfered with several agree able streets, and its fortifications are tolerably regular. The large fortunes that have been made there from the accession and circulation of its trade, must necessarily have had some influence upon the manners of the people: of all the towns in North America, it is the one in which the conveniences of luxury are most to be met with. But the disadvantage its road labours under, of not being,able
able to admit of ships of above two hundred tons,'willB 0 0 K,make it hoe its present plndor. It wil be dfrtd fort . snake it rose its present splendor. It will be deserted for Port Royal, which admits vessels of all kinds into its har your, and in great numbers. A settlement has already been formed there, which is continually increasing, and may most probably meet with the greatest success. Be sides the production of North and South Carolina, that will naturally come to its market, it will also receive those of Georgia, a colony that has been lately established near it. CAROLINA and Spanish Florida are separated from each Foundation of other by a great tract of land which extends one hunts Georgia. red and twenty miles upon the sea coast, and three hundred miles from thence to the Apalachian mountains, and whose boundaries to the north and south are the rivers Savannah and Alatamaha. The English ministry had been long desirous of erecting a colony on this trap of country that was considered as dependent upon Carolina. One of those instances of benevolence which liberty the source of every patriotic virtue renders more frequent in England than in any other country, served to determine the views of government, with regard to this place. A rich and humane citizen, at his death, left the whole of his estate to set at liberty such insolvent debtors as were detained in prison by their creditors. Prudential reasons of policy concurred in the performance of this will dictated by humanity; and the government gave orders, that such unhappy prisoners, as were released, should be transplanted into that desert country, that was now intended to be peopled; it was named Georgia in honour of the reigning sovereign. THIS instance of respect, the more pleating, as it was not the effect of flattery; the execution of a design of so much real advantage to the slate, were entirely the works 4 of
B 0 Kos the nation. The parliament added 225,000 livres(m),to the estate left by the will of the citizen; and a voluntary subscription produced a much more considerable urn. General Oglethorpe, a man, who had distinguished him elfin the house of commons by his table for great de signs, by his zeal for his country, and his fallen for glory, was fixed upon to dire these public finances, and to carry into execution so excellent a project. Desirous of maintaining the reputation he had acquired, he chose to conduce himself the first colonists that were to be sent to Georgia; where he arrived in January 1733, and fixed his people on a spot at ten miles distance from the sea, in an agreeable and fertile plain on the banks of the Savannah This rising settlement was called Savannah from the name of the river; and inconsiderable as it was in its infant state, was, however, to become the capital of a nourishing colony. It consisted at first of no more than one hundred persons, but before the end of the year the number was increased to 618; 127 of whom had emi grated at their own expence. Three hundred men, and 113 women, 102 lads, and 83 girls, formed the begin king of this new population, and the hopes of a nu serous posterity. THIS settlement was increased in 1735 by the arrival of some Scotch highlanders. Their national courage in duce them to accept an establishment offered them upon the borders of the Alatamaha, to defend the colony, if necessary, against the attacks of the neighbouring Spa niards. Here they built the towns of Darien and Frederica and several of their countrymen came over to set the among them. I. the fameyear, a great number of protestants driven ost of Salzburg by a fanatical priest, embarked for georgia (a) .84+3t. 55$.
Georgia to enjoy peace and liberty of conscience. AtB 0 o K first they fettled on a spot situated just above that of the, u. infant colony; but they afterwards chore to be at a great er distance, and to go as far down as the mouth of the Savannah, where they built a town called Ebenezer. SOME Switzers followed the example of there wise Saltzburghers, though they had not, like them, been per secured. They also fettled on the banks of the Savannah; but at the distance of four and thirty miles from the Germans Their colony,, consisting of a hundred habita tions, was named Puryiburgh, from Pure their founder, who having been at the expence of their settlement, was deservedly chosen their chief, in testimony of their gratitude to him. IN there four or five colonies, some men were found more inclined to trade than agriculture. These, there fore, separated from the rest in order to build the city Au gutta, two hundred and ,thirty-fix miles distant from the ocean. The goodness of the soil, though excellent in itself, was not the motive of their fixing upon this si tuition; but the facility it afforded them of carrying on the peltry trade with the savages. Their project was so successful, that as early as the year 1739, fix hundred people were employed in this commerce. The sale of these skins was with much greater facility carried on, from the circumstance of the Savannah admitting the largest (hips to fail upon it as far as the walls of Au gutta. THE mother country ought, one would imagine, to have formed great expectations from a colony, where the had sent near five thousand men, and laid out 1,485,6oo livres,(n) independent of the voluntary contributions that had been raised by zealous patriots. But to her great fur-prise, (·) 6.i,961. i5r.
B O Prise, She received information in 1741, that there re. XV I gained scarce a sixth. part of that numerous colony feni,to Georgia; who being now totally discouraged, seemed only desirous to fix in a more favorable situation. The reasons of these calamities were inquired into and discovered Impedes THIS colony, even in its infancy, brought with it thereto 'that'feeds of its decay: The government, together with the have pre vented the property of Georgia, had been ceded-to individuals, progress of The example of Carolina ought to have prevented this imprudent scheme; but nations as well as individuals de not learn intrusion som past misconduct. An night. end government, though checked by the watchful eye of the people, is not always able to guard against every misuse its confidence The English ministry, though zealously attached to the common welfare, sacrificed the public interest to the rapacious views of interested in individuals. THE first use that the proprietors of Georgia made o! the unlimited power they were invested with, was to establish a system of legislation, that made them entirely mailers not only of the police, justice and finances of the country, but even of the lives and estates of its inhabitants Every species of right was withdrawn from the people, who are the original possessors of them all. Obedience was required of the people, though contrary to their interest and knowledge; and twas considered here, as in other countries, as their duty and their fate. As great inconveniences had been found to arise in other colonies from large possessions, it was thought proper in Georgia to allow each family only fifty acres of land; which they were not permitted to mortgage, or even to dispose of by will to their female issue. This last regulation of making only the male issue capable of inheritances
distance, was soon abolished; but there fill remained too B 0 0 If,XVIII. many obstacles to excite a spirit of emulation. It seldom happens, that a man resolves to leave his country but up on the prospect of some great advantage that works strongly upon his imagination. Whatever limits are prescribed to his industry, are, therefore, so many checks which pre vent him from engaging in any project. The boundaries assigned to every plantation must necessarily have produced this bad effect. Several other errors Rill assessed the original plan of this colony, which prevented its increase. THE taxes imposed upon the most fertile of the English colonies, arc very inconsiderable, and even these arc not levied till the settlements have acquired some degree of vigour and prosperity. From its infant fate, Georgia had been subjected to the fines of a feudal government, with which it had been as it were fettered. The revenues raised by this kind of service increased prodigiously, in proportion as the colony extended itself. The founders of it, blinded by a spirit of avidity, did not perceive that the smallest duty imposed upon the trade of a populous and flourishing province, would much sooner enrich them than the largest fines laid upon a barren and uncultivated country. To this (species of oppression was added another, which however incredible it may appear, might arise from a spirit of benevolence. The planters of Georgia were not allowed the use of slaves. Carolina and some other colonies having been established without their assistance, it was thought that a country destined to be the bulwark of those American possessions, ought not to be peopled by a set of haves, who could not be in the least interested in the defence of their oppressions. But it was not at the same time foreseen, that colonists, who were leTs fa poured by the mother country, than their neighbours,,who
B O O who were situated in a country less susceptible of tillage and in a hotter climate, would want strength and spirits undertake a cultivation that required greater encouragement THE indolence which so many obstacles gave rise to, found a further excuse, in another prohibition that had been imposed. The disturbances produced by the use of spirituous liquors over all the continent of North America, induced the founders of Georgia to forbid the importation of Rum. This prohibition, though well intended, deprived the colonists of the only liquor that could correct the bad qualities of the waters of the country, that were gene rally unwholesome; and of the only means they had to restore the waste of strength and spirits that mull be the consequence of incessant labour. Besides this it pre vented their commerce with the Antilles, as they could not go thither to barter their wood, corn and cattle that ought to have been their most valuable commodities, in return for the rum of thole islands. The mother country, at length, perceived how much these defects in the political regulations and institutions had prevented the increase of the colony, and freed 'them from the restraints they had before been clogged with; and the government in Georgia was fettled upon the same plan as that which had rendered Carolina so flourishing; and instead of being dependent on a few individuals, be came one of the national positions. THOUGH this colony has not so extensive a territory, so temperate a climate, nor so fertile a soil as the neigh pouring province, and though it can never be so flourishing as Carolina, notwithstanding it cu!tivates'lice, in dig, and almost all the same productions, yet it will be come advantageous to the mother country, when the ap pretensions arising from the tyranny of its government,which
which have with reason prevented people from fettling Bo o0 K there, are removed. It will one day no longer be assert X . ed, that Georgia is the least populous of all the English colonies upon the continent, notwithstanding the succours government has so amply bestowed upon it. All these advantages will fortunately be increased by the ac question of Florida; a province, which from its vicinity muff necessarily influence the prosperity of Georgia, and which claims our attention from still more important reasons. UNDER the name of Florida the ambition of Spain Hitoryof comprehended all that tram of land in. America, which Florida.,Its cession extends from Mexico to the most northern regions. But from the fortune, which sports With the vanity of nations, has Spaniards the England since confined this vague description to the peninfulalilh. formed by the fca on tie channel of Bahama, between Georgia and Louisiana. The Spaniards, who had often satisfied themselves in preventing the population of a country they could not inhabit themselves, were desirous in 1565 of fettling on this spot, after having driven the French from it, who had begun the year before to form a small establishment there. THE most easterly settlement in this colony was known by the name of St. Mattheo. The conquerors would have abandoned it, notwithstanding it was situated on a navigable river at two leagues distance from the sea, in an agreeable and fertile soil, had they not discovered the Sassafras upon it. THIS tree, a native of America, is better in Florida than in any other part of that continent. It grows equally on the borders of the sea and upon the mountains but always in a soil that is neither too dry, nor too damp. It is straight and lofty, like the fir-tree, without branches, and its top is formed somewhat in the shape ossa cup.
B 0 O Ka cup. It is an ever-green, and its leaves resembles those v -. .of a laurel. Its flower, which is yellow, is taken as the,mullein and tea in infusion. Its root, which is well known in trade, being very serviceable in medicine, ought to be spungy, light, of a- greyish colour; of a sharp, sweetish and aromatic taste; and Should have the smell of the fennel and anise. These qualities give it the virtue of promoting perspiration, resolving thick and viscous humours and relieving palsies and catarrh. It was for merely much used in venereal complaints. THE first Spaniards who fettled there, would, probably, have fallen a sacrifice to this Waft disorder, without the eafilance of this powerful remedy; they would, at leaf, not have recovered from those dangerous fevers they were generally subject to at St. Mattheo; whether in consequence of the food of the country, or the badness of the waters. But the savages taught them, that by drinking in a morning fasting, and at their meals, water in which Sassafras had been boiled, they might certainly depend upon a speedy recovery. The experiment, upon trial, proved successful. But till the village never emerged from the obscurity and distress which were, undoubt ely, the natural and insurmountable consequences that attended the conquerors of the new world another establishment was formed upon the same coast, at fifteen leagues distance from St. Mattheo, known by the name of St. Augustine. The English attacked it in 1747, but were obliged to give up their attempts. Some Scotch Highlanders, who were desirous of covering the retreat of the assailants, were repulsed and slain A sergeant, who fought among the Spaniards, was spared by the indian savages, only that he might be reserved to ;indJcr- :Selfe torments which they inflict upon their pi:iollns. This man, it is said, on feeing,the
the horrid tortures that awaited him, addressed the blood B O'o K thirsty multitude in the follows ng manner: XVII " HEROES and patriarchs of the western world, you " were not the enemies that I fought for; but you have " at lase been the conquerors. The chance of war has " thrown me in your power. Make what use you please of the right of conquest. This is a right I do not "call in question. But as it is customary my country "to offer a ransom for one's life, listen to a proposal noteworthy your notice. " KNOW then, valiant Americans, that in the count try of which I am a native, there arc some men who possess a superior knowledge of the secrets of nature. One " of those sages connected to me by the ties-of kindred, ' imparted to me, when I became a soldier, a charm to " make me invulnerable. You muff have observed how I have escaped all your darts: without such a charm " would it have been possible for me to have survived all "the mortal blows you have aimed at me? For I appeal "to your own valour, to testify that mine has sufficiently " exerted itself, and has not avoided any danger. Life " is not so much the object of my request, as the glory of having communicated to you a secret of so much " consequence to your safety, and of rendering the roof "valiant nation upon the earth, invincible. Suffer me : only to have one of my hands at liberty, in order to perform the ceremonies of inchantment, of which I " will now make trial on myself before you." THE Indians listened with eagerness to this discourse, which was flattering both to their warlike character, and their turn for the marvellous. After a short consultation they untied one of the prisoner's arms. The high. lander begged that they would put his broad sword into the hands of the most expert and stoutest among them;,and
BOO Kand at the same time laying bare his neck, after having rubbed it, and muttering some words accompanied with magic signs, he cried aloud with a chearful countenance: " Observe now, 0 valiant Indians, an incontestable proof " of my honesty. Thou warrior, who now holds my " keen-cutting weapon, do thou now strike with all thy " strength: far from being able to fever my head from " my body, thou wilt not even wound the skin posy " neck." HE had scarcely spoke there words, when the Indian, aiming the most violent blow, struck off the head of the sergeant, at the distance of twenty feet. The savages astonished, flood motionless, viewing the bloody corpse of the stranger; and then turning their eyes upon one another as if to reproach each other with their blind credulity But admiring the artifice the prisoner had made use of to avoid the torture by hastening his death, they bestowed on his body the funeral honours of their country If this sad, the date of which is too recent to ad mit of credit, has not all the marks of authenticity it should have, it will only be one falsehood more to be added to the accounts of travellers. THE Spaniards, who in all their progress through America, were more employed in destroying the in habitants, than in construing of buildings, had formed only those two settlements we have taken notice of at the mouth of the channel of Bahama. At fourscore leagues distance from St. Augustine, upon the entrance of the gulph of Mexico, they had raised that of St. Mark, at the mouth of the river Palace. But this situation, well adapted to maintain a communication be tween the two continents of the new world, had already lost all the little consequence it had at first obtained,,when
when the English fettled at Carolina in i704, and en-B OO, XVIII. timely destroyed it. AT the distance of thirty leagues further,. was another colony, known by the name of St. Joseph, but of less consequence than that of St. Mark. Situated on a flat coast, and exposed to every wind, and on a barren soil and an uncultivated country; it was the last place where one might expel to meet with inhabitants. But avarice seing frequently a dupe to ignorance, some Spaniards fettled there. THosE. Spaniards who had formed an establishment at the bay of Pensacola upon the borders of Louisiana, were at least happier in their choice of situation. The soil was susceptible of culture; and there was a road which had it been a little deeper at its entrance, might have been thought a good one, if the belt ships that arrived there had not soon been worm-eaten. THESE five colonies, scattered over a space sufficient to have formed a great kingdom, did not contain more than 'three thousand inhabitants surpassing each other in sloth and poverty. They were all supported by the produce of their cattle. - The hides they sold at the Havannah, and the provisions with which they served their garrison, whose pay amounted to 750,0oo livres,(o) enabled them to purchase cloths and whatever else their soil did not fur nisi them with. Notwithstanding the miserable fitted in which. they had been left by the mother country, the greatest part of them chore to goto Cuba, when Florida was ceded to England by the treaty of 1763. This ac question, therefore, was no more than a desert, yet Rill it was some advantage 'to have got rid of a number of lazy, indolent and disaffected inhabitants. VOL. IV. Y Greatest) 32»8S2/. Ifs
BO O K GtrEAT Britain was pleated with the prospect of ~ .-peopling a pass province, whose limits have been ex-tended even to the Iliffifippi, by the cession France has made of part of Louisiana. The better to fulfill her project she has divided it into two governments, under the names of East and Weft Florida. TsE English had long been desirous of establishing thetmfelves'in that part of the cofitinerlt, in order to open a free communication with the wealthiest colonies of Spain. At first they had no other view but in the profits arising from a- contraband trade. But an advantage so precarious and momentary, Was not an object of sufficient importance, nor any ay favorable to the ambition of a great power. Cultivation alone can render the con quest of an industrious people flourishing. Sensible of this the English give every encouragement to promote culture in the finest part of their dominions. In rid year, 1769, the parliament voted no less than i5,675 rivres(p) for the two Florida. Here, at least, the mother for some time administers nourishment to her new-born children; whereas, in other nations, the government flocks and exhausts at the same time the niilk of the tho ther country and the blood of the colonies. By what IT is not easy to determine, to what degree of fplen- mens dour this indulgence with time and good management England umy render hay raise the Florida. Appearances, however, are high Florida ly promising: The air is healthy, and the soil fit sot her. every kind of grain. Their first trials of rice, cotton and indigo, were attended with rich success, that the humber of colonists was greatly increased by it. They poor in from the neighbouring provinces, the mother country, and all the protestant dominions in Europe. How greatly might this population be increased, if the,so- (P) 9,oo71, or, 7d, halfpenny
sovereigns of North America would depart from thes 0 K maxims they have uniformly pursued, and would contes scent to intermarriages with Indian families i And for what reason should this method of civilizing the savage tribes, which has been so successfully employed by the most enlightened politicians, be rejected by a free people, who from their principles must admit a greater equality than other nations ? Would they then be still reduced to the cruel alternative of seeing their crops burned, and their labourers massacred, or of persecuting without in permission, and exterminating without pity, those wan during bands of natives ? Surely a generous nation, which has made such great and such continued efforts to reign without a rival over this vast tract of the new world, should prefer to sanguinary and inglorious hostilities, a 'humane and infallible method of disarming the only ene my that remains to disturb her tranquillity ! THE English flatter themselves, that without the assist ance of these alliances they shall soon be freed from the little interruption that remains. It is the fate of savage nations, say they, to waste away in proportion as the people of civilized states come to fettle among them. Unable to submit to the labour of cultivation, and failing of their usual subsistence from the chace, they are reduced .tothe-neceflity of abandoning all those trans of lands which industry and activity have undertaken to clear, This is actually the case with all the natives bordering on the European settlements. They keep daily retiring fur ther into the woods i they fall back upon the Affenipouals and Hudson's bay., where they must necessarily encroach upon each other, and in a fort time must crisis for want ,of subsistence but before this total destruction is brought about, fvntss P a very serious nature may occur. We haven z net
B 0 O-K not, yet forgot the generous Pontiac. 'That formidable m v . warriour had broke with the English in 1j62. Major Ro-exerts, who was employed to reconcile him, lent him present of brandy. Sine Iroquois, who were standing round their chief, shuddered at the fight of this-liquor. Not doubting that it was poisoned, they infused that heflhould not accept so suspicious a present. How can it be, said their leader, that a man, the knozos my eefeemfor firm, and the signal services I have done him, should entertain a thought of taking away my .fe? Saying this, he received and drank the brandy with a confidence equal to that of the mo's renowned hero of antiquity.,BY many instances of, magnanimity similar to thistle eyes of the savage nations had all been fixed upon Pontiac. His design was to unite them in a body for the defence of their lands and independence. Several unfortunate circumstances concurred to defeat this grand projet; but it may be resumed, and it is not impossible, may succeed. Should this be the case, the English will be under a necessity of proceeding their frontier against an enemy, that hath none of those expences to sustain or evils to dread, which war brings with it among civilized nations; and will find the advantages they have promised themselves from conquests made at the expence of so much treasure and so much blood, considerably retarded, at lea., if not entirely cut off. Extent of THE two Florida, part of Louisiana, and all Canada the British domini obtained at the same ara, either by conquest or treaty, o.s in have rendered the English matters of all that space, Nomerca which extends from the river St. Lawrence to the Mississippi; so that without reckoning Hudson's bay, New foundling, and the other islands of North-america, they are in possession of the most extensive empire that ever was formed upon the face of the globe. This vast territory
tory is divided from north to south by a chain of high B o o K mountains, which alternately receding from and ap ei, proaching thecoaft, leave between them and the ocean a rich that of land of a hundred and fifty, two hundred, and sometimes three hundred miles in breadth. Beyond these Apalachian mountains is an immense desert, into which some travellers have ventured as far as eight hun died leagues without finding an end to it. It is supposed that the rivers at the extremity of these uncultivated re. lions have a communication with the South-sea. If this conjecture, which is not destitute of probability, should be confirmed by experience, England would unite in her colonies all the branches of communication and com mere of the new world. By her territories extending from one American sea to the other, The may be said to join the four quarters of the world. From all her Eu european ports,: from all her African settlements, fie freights and sends out Ships to the new. world. .From her maritime settlements in the east she would have a direct channel to the Weft-Indies, by the Pacific ocean. She would discover those ships offhand or branches of the sea, the isthmus or the freight, which lies between the nor there extremities of Asia and America. By the vast ex tent of her colonies she would have in her own power all the avenues of trade, and would secure all the advantages of it by her numerous fleets. Perhaps, by having the empire of all the seas she might aspire to the supremacy of both worlds. But it is not in the destiny of any single *nation to attain to such a pitch of greatness. Is then ex .tent of dominion so flattering an objet, when conquests .ae made only to be lost again ? Let the Romans speak ! .Does it constitute power, to possess such a share of the globe,, that rome. part shall always be enlightened by the says of the fun, if ;vhi!e we reign in one world we are,.Y 3 to
B 0 K to languish in obscurity in the otter? Let the Spaniards xviii answer! THE English will be happy, if they can preserve by the means of culture and navigation, an empire, which must ever be found too extensive, when it cannot be maintained without bloodshed. But as this is the price, which ambition must always pay for the success of its en enterprizes, it is by commerce alone that conquests can be. come valuable to a maritime power. Never did war pro cure for any conqueror a territory more improbable by human industry than that of the northern continent of America. Although the land in general is so low near the fka, that in many parts it is scarcely distinguishable from the top of the main mall, even after bringing in fourteen fathom, yet the coast is very easy of access, be cause the depth diminishes insensibly as you advance. From this circumstance it is easy to determine exaily by the line the distance of the main land. Besides this the mariner has another sign, which is the appearance of trees, that, seeming to rise out of the sea, form-an en chanting object to his view upon a there, which presents roads and harbours without number for the reception and preservation of flipping;,THE provisions of the earth arise its great abundance from a soil newly cleared but in return they are a long time coming to maturity. Many plants are even so-late in flower that the winter prevents their ripening ; while on our continent, both the fruit and the feed of them are gathered in a more northern latitude. What should be the cause of this phenomenon ? Before the arrival of the Europeans, the North Americans, living uponathe pro duce of their hunting and fiery, left their lands totally uncultivated. The whole. country was covered with woods and thickets. Under the shade of these forelts,grew
grew a multitude of pants. The lewes, which sell evfryB o o winter from the trees, formed a bed there or four inches thick. Before the damps had quite rotted this species ps manure, the summer came on; and nature, left TgtireJy to herself, continued heaping incessantly upon each other these effect of her fertility. The plants buried under wet leaves, through which they with difficulty made their way in along course of time, became ac.cutomi.ed to a sow vegetation. The force of culture has not yet been able to subdue this habit fixed ,and .onfirnoed by ages, nor hav the dispositions of nature given way to the influence .of art. But this climate so long unknown or neglected by .mankind, precepts them with advantages, which sup ply the defects .and ill consequences of that omicron. IT produces almost all te .trees ,that are natives of ,our Trees pc. climate. Ithasalfo others peculiarity tfrelf; among these ,eyl~ tO thefugar maple, and the .candle berry myrtle. The candle-america. berry myrtle is a shrub which delights in a mois soil, and is, therefore,feldom found at any.diltance from the sea. Jts feeds ,are covered with a white powder, which looks like flour. When they are gathered towards the end of autumn, and put into boiling water, there rises a viscous body, which swims at the top, and is skimmed off. As soon as this is pome to a consistence, it is commonly of a dirty green colour. To purify it, it is boiled a second, time, when it becomes transparent and of an agreeable green. THIs.fubftance, which in quality and confidence is a medium between tallow and wax, supplied the place of both to the first. Europeans that landed in this country. The dearness of it has occasioned it to be less used, in proportion as the number of domestic animals hath in creased. Nevertheless as it burns flower than tallow ,is less fubjet.to melt, and has not that disagreeable froell, it is till preferred, wherever it can be procured at a mo-,Y 4 derate
B O derate price. The property of giving light is, of all its XVM.,L uses, the least valuable. It serves to. make excellent soap,and'plaifters for wounds: it is even employed' for the pur pose of sealing letters. The sugar maple does not merit less attention than the car idle berry myrtle, as'may be con civet from its name. --this tree, whose nature it is to flourish by the side of firearms, or in marshy places, grows to the height of an oak. In the month of March, an incision of the depth of three or four inches is made in the lower part of the trunk. A pipe is put into the orifice, through which the juice, that flows from it, is conveyed into a vessel placed to receive it. The young trees are so full of this liquor, that's half an hour they will fill a quart bottle. The old ones afford less, but of a much better quality. No more than one incision or two at molt can" be made without draining and weakening the tree. If three or four pipes are applied, it soon dies. THE sap of this tree has naturally the flavour of honey. To reduce it to sugar, they evaporate it by fire, till it has acquired the consistence of a thick syrup. It is then poured into moulds of earthen ware or bark of the birch tree. The syrup hardens as it cools, and becomes a red kind of sugar, almost transparent, and pleasant enough to the taste. To give it a whiteness, they sometimes mix up flour with it in the making; but this ingredient always changes the flavour of it. This kind of sugar is used for the same purposes, as that which is made from canes ; but eighteen or twenty pounds of juice go to the'making of one pound of sugar, so that it can be of no great use in trade. birds pes AMIDST the'multitude of birds which inhabit the forests u"nir tO of North America, there is one extremely singular in its North Amici. kind; this is the humming bird, a species of which, on ac-count of its smallness, is called by the French P'cfeau mouse,
or the fly bird. Its beak is Tong and pointed like a needle B o o K and its claws are not thicker than a common pin. Upon its . head it has a blackett of incomparable beauty. Its breast is of a rose colour, and its belly white as milk. The back; wings and tail are grey, bordered with silver, and streaked with the brightest gold. The down, which covers all the plumage of this little bird, gives it so delicate a cars, that it resembles a velvet flower, whose beauty fades on the flights touch. THE spring is the only season for this charming bird. Its nest perched on the middle of a bough, is covered on the outside with a grey and greenish moss, and on the in side lined with a very soft down gathered from .yellow flowers. This nest is half an inch in depth, and about an inch in diameter. There are never found more than two eggs in it about the size of the smallest peas. . Many attempts have been made to rear the young ones; but they have never lived more than three weeks or. a month at molt. THE humming bird lives entirely on the juice of flowers, fluttering from one to another, like the bees. Sometimes it buries itself in the calix of the largest flowers. Its flight produces a buzzing noise like that of a spinning-wheel. When it is tired, it lights upon the nearest tree or stake; rests a few minutes, and flies again to the flowers. Not withstanding its weakness, it does not appear timid; .but will sussex a man to approach within eight or ten feet of it. WHO would imagine, that so diminutive an animal could be malicious, passionate, and quarrelsome? They are often seen fighting together with great fury and ob flinty. The strokes they give with their beak are so sudden and so quick, that they are not distinguishable the eye. Their wings move with such agility that they,seen
3 0 0 Seem not to move at all. They are more heard thane teen: and their noise resembles that of a sparrow these little birds are all impatience. When they come near a flower, if they find it faded and withered, they tear all the heaves asunder. The precipitation, with which they peck it, betrays, as it-is said, the rage with which they are animated. Towards the end of the fum mer, thousands of flowers may be fern stript of all their leaves by the fury of the fly birds. It may be doubted, however, whether this mark of resentment is not rather an effect of hunger than of an unnecessary deRfrutivc instinct. NORTH AMERICA formerly was devoured by infects. As the air was not yet purified, nor the ground cleared, .nor the woods cut down, nor the waters drained off, these little animals destroyed without opposition all the pro auctions of nature. None of them was useful to man kind. There is only neat present, which is the bee: but this is supposed to have been carried from the old to the new world. The savages call it, the English fly; .and it is only found near thecoafts. These circumstances announce it to be of foreign original. The bees fly in .numerous swarms through the forests of 'the new world. They increase every day. Their honey is employed to-several uses. Many persons make it their food. The wax becomes daily a more considerable branch of trade. rThe Eng- THE bee is not the only present which Europe has )ill supply had in her power to make to America. She has enriched North America ter also with a breed of domestic animals, ,forth savages ethdi Dans-had none. America had not yet associated beats with mystic animals men :in the labours of cultivation, when the Europeans,carried over thither in their ships several of tour species of domestic animals. They have Multiplied there prodigious ; :but all of them, excepting the hog, whose whole,merit
merit consists in fattening himself, have 'lost much of that B 0 OK strength and size which they enjoyed in those countries from whence they were brought. The oxen, horses, ,and Sheep have degenerated in the northern colonies of England though the particular kinds of each had been chosen with great precaution. WITHOUT doubt, it is the climate; 'the nature of the air and the soil which has prevented the success tof their transplantation. These animals, as well as the men, were at first attacked by 'epidemical disorders. If the con tagion did not, as in the men, affect the principes of ge negation in them, several (species of them at least were with much difficulty reproduced. Each generation sell hbort of the last; and as it happens to American plants in Europe, European cattle continually degenerated in America. Such is the law of climates, which wills every people, every animal and vegetable species to rowland flourish in its native soil. The love of their own country seems an ordinance of nature prescribed to all beings, like the desire of. preserving their existence. YET there are certain correspondences of climate, European which :form'exceptions to the general rule against 'trans rgied ein sporting animals and plants. When the English first North,America landed onilhe North American continent, the wandering the inhabitants of those desolate regions had scarcely arrived English. at the cultivation of a small quantity of 'maize. This species of corn, unknown at that time in Europe, was the only one known in the new world. The culture of it was by no means difficult. The savages contented therm' 'selves with taking off the turf, making a few holes in the ground with a flick, and throwing into each of.them ,a single grain, which produced two hundred :andfifty or three hundred. The method of preparing itfqr.food was *ot more complicated. · They .pounded itjn!a wooden or,stone
B 6O K Gone mortar; and made it into a pale, which they bake XVIII. ,sunder embers. They often ate it boiled or toafted'merel' upon the coals. THE maize has many advantages. Its leaves are use ful in feeding cattle; a circumstance of great nomen where there are very few meadows. A hungry, light sandy soil agrees bell with this plant. The feed may b frozen'in the spring two or three times without impairing the harvest. In-short it is of all plants the one that i least injured by the excess of drought ormoifture.,THESE causes, *which introduced the cultivation of i in that part of the world, induced the English to prefer and eyed promote it in their settlements. They Told it t Portugal, to South America, and the sugar islands, all had sufficient for their own use. They did not, however neglee to enrich their plantations with European grains all of which succeeded, though not so perfectly as ii their native soil. With the superfluity of their harvests the produce of their herds, and the clearing of the so rests, the colonists formed a trade with all the wealth and most populous provinces of the new world. - ' THE mother country, finding that her northern co ionics had supplanted her in her trade with South Ane rica, and fearing that they would soon become her rival even in Europe at all the markets for salt and corn, en devoured to divert their industry to objects that might bi more useful to her. She wanted neither motives no means to bring about this purpose, and had soon an op J opportunity to carry it into execution. The Eng- THE greatest part of the pitch and tar the English lii find wanted for their fleet, used to be furnished by Sweden the necessity 3 r b Sweden ty of ha In 703-that fate was so blind to its true interest, as t( ing heir lay this ifiprtairitf branch of commerce under the! re. navel story's from Ame-fitriitron 'óof-ah exclusive patent. The first effect o,this
this monopoly was a sudden and unnatural increase of 0 o K price. England taking advantage of this blunder of the x . Swedes, encouraged by considerable premiums the im potation of all forts of naval shores which North America could furnish. THESE rewards did not immediately produce the effect that was expected from them. A bloody war, raging in each of the four quarters of the world, prevented both the mother country and the colonies from giving to this infant revolution of commerce the attention which it me rites. The northern nations, whore interests were united, taking this inaction, which was only occasioned by the ,hurry of a war, for an absolute proof of inability, thought they might without danger lay every restrictive clause up on the exportation of marine stores, that could contribute .sto enhance the price of them. For this end they entered into mutual engagements, which were made public in 1718, a time, when all the maritime powers still felt the seas of a war, that had continued fourteen years. ENGLAND was alarmed by io odious a convention. She dispatched to America men of sufficient ability to convince .the. inhabitants how necessary it was for them to assist the views of the mother country; and of sufficient experience to direct their first attempts towards great objeas, with out making them pass through those minute details, which quickly extinguish an ardour excited with difficulty. In a very Short time such quantities of pitch, tar, turpentine yards and masts were brought into the harbours of Great Britain, that the was enabled to supply the nations around her. THIS-sudden success blinded the British government. The cheapness of the commodities furnished by the co ionics, in comparison of those which were brought from the Baltic, gave them an advantage, which seemed tonsure
B O OK insure a constant preference. Upon this the ministry con. ,X . eluded that the bounties might be withdrawn. But they,bad not taken into their calculation the difference of freight, which was entirely in favour of their rivals. A total flop ensued in this branch of trade, and made them sensible of their error. In 1729, they revived the bounties which though they were not laid so high as formerly were sufficient to give to the vent of American stores the greatest superiority, at least in England, over those of the northern nations. THE woods, though they constituted the principal riches of the colonies, had hitherto been overlooked by the governors of the mother country. The produce of them had long been exported by the English to Spain, Portugal and the different markets in the Mediterranean, where it was bought up for building and other uses. As these traders did not take in return merchandise sufficient to complete their cargoes, it had been a practice with the Hamburghers, and even the Dutch to import on their bottoms the produce of the most fertile'climates of Eu rope. This double trade of export and carrying had con miserably augmented the British navy. The parliament, being informed of this advantage, in the year 1722, im mediately exempted the timber of the colonies from all those duties of importation, which Ruffian, Swedish and Danish timber are subject to. This first favour was fol lowed by a bounty, which, at the same time 'that it com pretended every species of wood in general, was prin finally calculated for those, which are employed in ship building. An advantage, so considerable in itself, as this was, would have been greatly improved; if the colonies had built among themselves vessels proper for transporting cargoes of such weight; if they had made wood yards, ifs which'they might have furnished complete freights;,and
and finally, if they had abolished the cufltmi of burning B 0 0 IK in the spring the leaves which had fallen in the preceding . autumn. This foolish practice destroys all the young trees, that are beginning in that season to shoot out; and leaves only the old ones, which are too rotten for use. It is notorious, that vessels construed in America, or with American materials, ]aft but a very short time. Thisin- convenience may arise from several causes; but that, which has suit been mentioned, merits the greater attention, as it may be easily remedied. Besides timber and masts for lips, America is capable of furnishing likewise fails and rigging, by the cultivation of hemp and flax. THE French protestants, who, when driven from their country by a victorious prince fallen into a state of bi gory, carried their national industry every where into the countries of his enemies, taught England the value of two commodities of the utmost importance to a maritime power. Both flax and hemp were cultivated with some success in Scotland and Ireland. Yet the manufactures of the nation were chiefly supplied with both from Russia. To put a flop to this foreign importation, it was proposed to grant a bounty to North-america of 135 livres,(q) for every ton of these articles. But habit, which is an enemy to all novelties, however useful, prevented the colonists at first from being allured by this bait. They are since reconciled to it; and the produce of their flax and hemp serves to keep at home a considerable part of 45,0oo,ooo,(r) which went annually out of Great Bri tain for the purchase of foreign linens. It may, per laps, in time be improved so far as to be equal to the whole demand of the kingdom, and even to supplant other nations in all the markets. A soil entirely fresh which costs nothing, does not stand in need of manures) 1. (') 6 >,968,75°^
B O K-is interfered by navigable rivers, and may be cultivated , . .toby slaves, affords ground for immense expectations. Soothe timber and canvas requisite for lapping we have yet to add iron. The northern parts of America furnish this commodity to assist in acquiring the gold and silver which abundantly sow in the southern. England THis'moft useful of metals, so necessary to mankind, get iro was unknown to the Americans, till the Europeans fomNorthtaught them the most fatal uses of it, that of making Amtrlca.,weapons. The English themselves long neglected the iron mines, which nature had lavished on the continent, where they were fettled. That channel of wealth 'had been diverted from the mother country by being clogged with enormous duties. The proprietors of the national mines, aided by those of the coppice woods, which are used in the working of them, had procured imposts to be laid on them that amounted to a prohibition. By corruption intrigue, and sophistry, there enemies to the public good had ltifed competition, which would have been fatal to their interests. At length the government took the first Rep towards a right conduct. The importation of American iron into the port of London was granted, duty-free; but at the same time it was forbid to be car cried to any other ports, or even more than ten miles in land. This whimsical restrain continued till '1757. At that time the general voice of the people called upon the parliament to repeal an ordinance so manifestly contrary to every principle of public utility, and to extend to the whole kingdom a privilege which had been granted ex lively to the capital-though nothing could be more reasonable than this demand, it met with the strongest opposition. Combinations of interested individuals were formed to represent, that the hundred and nine forges wrought in England,,not
not.-reeko.ning .the ;of Scotland,, ;produced, .aonua ly B.O o K:o eighteen. thousand. tcqns ;of. iron,, aqd-employed: an grtfia '. number nr,of,.able,vorrkmen i. that the mines, .which were, iesxhaultb ! , would pave: supplied ,i-much greater. nan?, city, had nota perpetual apprehension prevailed that the duties on: America i iron would be taken,'offE, that the, iron works carried on in England consumed annually;, ne hired aA ninety-eight thousand cords of under, good, iandtbhgt thofe,wood.s. furn.ifime moroepver,bark,,for the tanneries arnima.tcials: for p4.ip-building i and that, the American iron,, not being , roper, for steel, for, making Iqrp infiruiegt.,. 9or many of the utensils, of.naviga- tiopn .wound contribute very. little t .Lessen the jmporftatit. from abroad. and gould have .no other effet than that of putting a ftop.to, the forges f Great Britain. T, These grrpndlfs represent ins had no weight with the,parliamient w , , saw clearly t:la.t ;unless. the price of the original materials could beilffenaed, the nation would fopn,lof the. numberless manufactures of iron and steel, b, wvjich ii' had i o long been 'enriched i and that there was no tine to e loll in putting a stop to the progress b'th'er.'i nations by their injury had made in it. ]t was terefQre;'remloyec' that' the fre importation of iron 'som 'america should permitted in 'all the ports of England. This wise resolution was accompanied with an ad' of justice. The proprietors of coppices were by statute of 'Henry'th.e eighth forbidden to clear 'their lands: the par lament took off this prohibition, and left thereat liberty to make such ufieof their estates as they Should think P. /!' rr. U. . proper. PREVIOuS to these regulations, Great Britain 'uiid to pa annually to Span, Norway-sweden and Russia ten millions of livres(sj ior the iron sie purchased of'ti'em'.,. ' P;IV '.!' ,; ,'Z ' ' '' *" Tri fs,() 43j,500/.
B O O-Thisitriiute-is greatly-lessened, and will leleniiftill more. 'sho - 'ln.yhe'ore is'found in such quantities in America; and is so,.easily separated' from the'ground, that the Engliflhdo not despair bs having it in their power to furnish Portugal; Turky, Africa, the East Indies, and every country in the world with which they have any commercial connections. PERHAPs, the English may be too sanguine in their re presentations of the-advantages they expect from so many articles of importance to their navy. But it is sufficient for'them, if by the assistance 'of their 'colonies they can free themselves from that.dependence'in which the-north crn powers of Europe have hitherto epithet,' withered gard to the equipment of their fleets. Frnimerly their operations might 'have been prevented 'or at'leaf'inter- rupted'by a refusal of the necessary materials. From this time nothing will be able to check their :natural ardour for the empire of the sea, which alone can insure to them the empire of the new wOrld; ' -; 1 England After bavingoialyed the way to that grand object, y CtI'. Forming a free, independent navy, .;luirerior to that of wine and every other nation; England has adopted every measure filkfrom lad ado.:te'-e . 'e".:?.: North thatch contribute to her enjoyment qs this species of America. conquest The has made in America, les ,by the force osier arms thana of her industry. By bounties judiciously bestowed, file has succeeded so far as to draw annually from that country twenty ,million weight of pot-ashes. The greater, progresses been made ;in the cultivation of rice, indigo and. tobacco. In proportion as the fettle ments, from their natural tendency, wretched further to wards the south, fresh projects and enterprizes suitable to the nature of the soil suggested themselves. In the temperate and in the hot. climates, the several productions were expected which necessarily reward the labours of the cultivator. Wine was the only article that seemed to descanting
wanting to the new hemispheres' and the English, who B 0 It - ·; , . ' '. .' . . . : . ', . XVIII. have none in Europe, were eager to produce one min m , America. . .,JUPONc that immense continent the English are hin ps session of, are found prodigious quantities of wild vines, which bear grapes,: differing in colour, size and quantity, but all of a four and disagreeable flavour. It was supposed that good management would give these plants that per season, which unassisted nature had denied them; an French vine-dressers were invited into a country, where neither public nor private impositions took away their in inclination to labour by depriving them of the fruits of their industry. The repeated experiments they made both with American and European plants, were all equally unsuccessful The juice of the grape was too watery, .too weak, and almodtimpoflible to be preserved in a hot climate The country was too full of woods, which at trap and confine the moist and hot Vapours; the seasons were too unsettled, and the insects too numerous near the forests to sussex a production to expand and prosper, of which theEnglifi and all other nations who have it not, are so ambitious. The time will corne, perhaps, though it will be long firil, when their colonies will furnish them with a beverage, which they envy. and purchase from France, repining inwardly that they are obliged to con tribute towards enriching a rival, whom they are anxious to ruin. This disposition is cruel. England has other more gentle and more honourable means of attaining that prosperity she is ambitious of. Her emulation may be better and more usefully exerted on an article now cul treated in each of the four quarters of the globe; this is silk ! the work of that little worm which clothes mankind with the leaves.of trees digested in its entrails: silk ! that double prodigy of nature and of art.,Z 2 A very
B O. K A very considerable fun of money is annually exported - vI., from Great Britain for the purchase of'thisrich produai-,on; which gave rise about thirty years ago to a plan for obtaining silk from Carolina; the mildness of the climate and the great abundance of mulberry-trees seemed favourable to the pibjet. Some ateniEpts made by the go government to attract rome Switzets into the colony, were more successful than could have been expected. Yet the prioress of this branch of-trade has not been answerable so so promising a beginning. The blame has been laid on the inhabitants of the colony, who buying only negro men, from whom they received an immediate and certain profit, neglected to have women, who with their child ein right have been employed in bringing up silk-worms, an occupation suitable to the weakiietrs of that sex, and to;th'etendereft age. But it ought to have been considered that men coming from another hemisphere into a rude uncultivated country, would apply their first care to the cultivation of esculent plants, breeding cattle, and'the toils of-immediate necessity.' This is the natural and con tant proceeding of well-governed states. From agri culture, which is the source of population, they rise to the arts of luxury; and the arts of luxury nourish com mere, which is the child of industry and father of wealth. The time is, perhaps, comes when the English may em ploy whole colonies in the cultivation of silk. This is, at least, the national opinion. On the 18th of April 1769, the parliament-granted a bounty of 25 per cent. for seven years on all raw silks imported from the colonies ; a bounty of 20 per cent. for seven yeats following, and for even years after that a bounty of 15 per cent. If this encouragement produces face improvements as may reasonably be;expeced from it, the next step undoubtedly will be the cultivation of cotton and olive trees, which seem par-particularly
circularly adapted to the climate and soil of the English co B O0 Lxviii. ionics. There are hot, perhaps, any rich productions , either in Europe or Asia, but what may be transplanted and cultivated with'fuccefs on the vast continents North America, as soon as population shall have provided hands disproportion to the extent and fertility of so rich a ter ritory. The great object of the mother'country at pre feat is the peopling of her colonies. THE' first persons, who landed in this desert and savage What kinds men region were Englishmen, who had been perfected at England home' for their civil and religious opinions. peoples her ' I"was not' to be'expeaed that this first emigration American would be attended with important consequences. The colonies with. inhabitants of Great Britain are so strongly: attached to their native'foil, that nothing lets than civil wars or re solutions can induce those among them, who have any property,; character, or industry,. to a change of climate and country: for. which reason, the re-eflablihfmetlt of public tranquillity in Europe was likely to put an insurmountable bar to .the progress of American cultivation. 1' Ads to this, that the English, though naturally active, ambitious and enterprising, were ill-adapted to the business 'ds clearing the grounds. Accustomed to a quiet life;, safe and many conveniences, nothing but the'enh hussar mos' region 'or politics could support them under the labours, miseries, wants and calamities inseparable from new plantations. IT is further to be observed, that-though England rmiiht have been-able "to overcome there difficulties, it was not a desireable object for 'her.: 'Without doubt, the founding of colonies, rendering them flourishing and enriching'herfclf 'with their productions, was an advantageous prope t her; but those advantages would be dearly ;purchased at the expence of her own populations 3 HAPPILY
B 0 0 K HAPPILY for her, the intolerant and despotic spirit,. , that swayed most countries of Europe, forced numberless,vi&ims to take refuge in an uncultivated trap, which, in its state of desolation, seemed to implore that assistance for itself which it offered to the unfortunate. These men, who had escaped from the rod of tyranny, in crossing the seas, abandoned all hopes of return, and at tacked themselves for ever to a country, which at the same time afforded them an asylum and an easy quiet sub distance. Their good fortune could not remain for ever unknown. Multitudes flocked from different parts to partake of it. Nor has this eagerness abated, particularly in Germany, where nature produces men for the pur poses either of conquering or cultivating the earth. It will even increase. The advantage granted to emigrants, throughout the British dominions, es being naturalized by a residence of seven years in the colonies, sufficiently warrants this prediction. WHILE tyranny and persecution were destroying po pulsation in Europe, English America was beginning to be peopled, with three forts of inhabitants. The first clas consists of freemen. It is the mos numerous; but hitherto it has visibly degenerated. The Creoles in ge neral, though habituated to the climate from their cradle, are not so rebuff and fit for labour, nor so powerful in war as the Europeans; whether it be that they have not the improvements of education, or that they are softened by nature. In that foreign clime the mind is enervated as well as the body : endued with a quickness and early penetration, it early apprehends, but wants steadiness, and is not used to continued thought. It must be a mat ter of astonishment to find that America has not yet pro duce a good poet, an able mathematician, or a man of genius in any single art or science. They possess in. gc-,n eras
neral a readiness for acquiring thea knowledge of every art B-O OK or science, but not one of them hews any decisive talent -. for one in particular. More early advanced at first, and arriving at a slate of maturity sooner than we do, they are much behind us in the latter part of life. Perhaps, twill be said that their population is not very numerous, in comparison with that of all Eutop6 together; that they want aids, masters, models, instruments emulation in the arts and sciences; that education with them is too much neglected, or too little im proved. But we may observe, that in proportion, we see more persons in America of good birth, of an easy, competent fortune, with a greater share of leisure and of other means of improving their natural abilities, than are found in Europe, where even the very method of training up youth soften repugnant to the progress and uni folding of reason and genius. Is it possible that although the Creoles educated with us have every one of them good sense, or, at least, the moll part of them, yet not one Should have arisen to any great degree of perfection in the slightest pursuit ; and that among such as have staid in their own country no one has distinguished him self by a confirmed superiority in those talents which lead to same ? Has nature then punished them for having . crossed the ocean ? Are they a race of people degenerated by transplanting, by growth and by mixture? Will not time be able to reduce them to the nature of their climate ? Let us beware of pronouncing on futurity, before we have the experience of several centuries. Let us wait till a more ample burt of light has shone over the new hemisphere. Let us wait till education may have correct the insurmountable tendency of the climate towards the enervating pleasures of luxury and sensuality. Perhaps, we hall .then see that America is propitious to,, 4 genius,
?0o 9qK genii and the artsthat give birth to peace and society. ~ a A'iew Olympus, an Arcadia, an Athens, a new Gieecc,will produce, perhaps, on the continent,. or in the Ar archipelago that surrounds it, another Homer, a Theocritus and especially an Anacreon. Perhaps,,anotherNewton is to arise in New Britain. From'Englifli Americawithout doubt will, proceed the first rays of the sciences if they are at-length to break through a sky so long time clouded. By'a singular contrast with the old world, in which the arts' hive travelled from the £out towards the north, in the new one, the north will be found-to enlighten the southern parts. Let the English clear:.th.ground, pu rife the air, alter the climate, improve nature, and a new universe will arise out of their-hands for the glory and happiness of humanity. But it is necessary that they should take steps conformable to this noble design, and aim by just and laudable means to form a population fit for recreation of a new world. This is what they have nor yet done. THE:fecond class of their colonists was formerly com posed of malefactors which. the mother country transport ed after condemnation to America, and who were bound ,to a servitude of seven or fourteen years. to the planters who had purchased them out of the hands, of justice The disgust is grown universal against these corrupt men, al ways disposed to commit fresh crimes these have been replaced by indigent persons, whom the impossibility of subsiding in Europe has driven into the new world. Having embarked without being capable of paying for their passage,. these wretches are at the dispose of their captain,. who fells, them to whom he pleases.,TTHIS fort of slavery is for a longer or shorter time; but it can. never exceed eight years. If among these,emigrants
emigrants there are any who are not of age; their ser B 0 0 K virtute lafss;till they; arrive at that period, which'is fixed. at tWenty-onelfor the boys, and eighteen for the girls., NONE:of those who are contrived. for have a right to marry without the approbation of their master, who sets what price he chooses on his consent. If any one of them runs away, and he is retaken, he is to serve a week for each day's absence; a month for every week, and fix months for one. The proprietor who does not think proper to receive again one who has deserted from his service, may sell him to whom he pleases, but that is only for the term of-this fir* contract. Besides neither the service, nor the ,sale carry any ignominy with it. At there'd of his ser virtute, the contracted person enjoys all the rights of a free-denizen. With his freedom, he receives from the master whom he has served, either implements for hus bandy, or utensils proper for his work. BUT with whatever appearance of suffice this species of traffic may be coloured, the greatest part of the strangers who go over to America under these conditions, would never set their foot on board a ship, if they were not in 'veiled away. Some artful kidnappers from the fens of Holland spread themselves over the Palatinate, Swabia, and the' cantons of Germany, which are the heft peopled or least happy. There they set forth with raptures the delights of the new world, and the fortunes easily ac quire in that country. The simple men, seduced by 'thefe'magnificent promises, blindly follow there infamous 'brokers engaged in this scandalous commerce, who deliver them oivr to factors at Amsterdam or Rotterdam.' 1 hesse, 'either in pay with the Btitihf government, or'with com panes-who have undertaken to stock the colonies-with people, give a gratuity to the men employed in!this ser vice. Whole families are sold without their knowledges
B O 0 Kto mailers at a distance, who impose the harder conditions xvWI, . upon them, as hunger and necessity do not permit the,fuierers to give a refusal. The English form their sup plies of men for husbandry, as princes do for war; for a purpose more useful and more humane, but by the same artifices. The deception is perpetually carried on in Eu rope, by the attention paid to the suppressing of all cor respondence with America, which might unveil a mystery of imposture and iniquity, too well disguised by the in treated principles which gave rise to it. BUT in short there would not be so many dupes, if there were fewer aims. It is the oppression of govern ment which makes there chimerical ideas of fortune be adopted by the credulity of the people. Men, unfortunate in their private affairs, vagabonds or contemptible at home, having nothing worse to fear in a foreign climate easily give themselves up to the hope of a better lot. The means used to retain them in a country where chance has given them birth, are fit only to excite in them a desire to quit it. It is imagined that they are to be under the constant restraint of prohibitions, menaces, and punishments: these do hut exasperate them, and drive them to desertion by the very forbiddance of it. They should be attached by soothing means; by fair expectations whereas they are imprisoned, and bound: man, born free, .is restrained from attempting to exist in re lions, where heaven and earth offer him an-asylum. It has been thought better to fisse him in his cradle than to let him seek for his living in some climate that is ready to give him succour. It is not judged proper even to leave him the choice of his burial-place.-Tyrants in policy ! these are the effects of your laws ! People, where then are your rights ?sis
Is it then become necessary to lay open to the nations B. 0,QK the schemes that are formed against their liberty ? Mulftl . X they be told, that by a conspiracy of the most odious na ture, certain powers have lately entered into an agree ment, which must deprive even despair itself of every re source ? For there two centuries palt, all the princes of Europe have been fabricating among them in the secret recesses of the cabinet that long and heavy chain with which the people are encompassed on every side. At every negociation fresh links were added to the chain so artificially contrived. Wars tended not to make states more extensive, but subjects more submissive, by gradually sub flitting military government in lieu of the mild and gen the influence of laws and morality. The several potentates have all equally strengthened themselves in their tyranny by their conquests, or by their losses. When they were victorious, they reigned by their armies; when humbled by defeat, they held the command by the misery of their pusillanimous subjects; whether ambition made them competitors or adversaries, they entered into league or alliance, only to aggravate the servitude of the people. If they chore to kindle war, or maintain peace, they were sure to turn to the advantage of their authority, either the railing or debasing of their people. If they ceded a province, they exhausted every other to recover it, in order to make amends for their loss. If they acquired a new one, the haughtiness they affected out of it, was the occasion of cruelty and extortion within. They borrow ed one of another by turns every art and invention, whether of peace or of war, that might concur sometimes to foment natural antipathy and rivalfhip, sometimes to ob literate the character of the nations; as if there had been a tacit agreement among the rulers to subject the nations one by means of another to the despotism they had con-instantly
B OO K pantry been preparing for them. Ye people who all groan,. more orlefs secretly, doubt not of your condition; those who never entertained any affection for you, are come now not to have any fear of you. in the extremity of wretchedness one single resource remained for you; that of escape and emigrations-Even that has been shut against you princes have agreed among themselves to restore to one another not only deserters, who for the mos part in lifted by compulsion or by fraud, have a good right to escape; not only rogues who in reality ought not to find a refuge any where; but indifferently all their subjects, whatever may be the motive that obliged them to quit their country thus all you unhappy labourers, who find neither subsistence nor work in your own countries, after they have been ravaged and rendered barren by the exactions of finance; thus ye die where ye had the misfortune to be born, ye have no refuge but under ground. All ye artis s and workmen of every species horrified by mono posts, who are refused the right of working at your own free disposal, without having purchased the privileges of your calling: ye who are kept for your whole life in the work-lop, for the purpose of enriching a privileged favor: ye whom a court-mourning Caves for months to gather without bread or wages; never expct& to live out of a country where soldiers and guards keep you imprisoned go wander in despair, and die of regret. If ye venture to groan; your cries will be re-ecchoed and lost in. the depth of a dungeon ; if ye make your escape, ye will be pursued even beyond fountainhead rivers ye will be sent back, or given up, bound hand and foot, to torture; and to that eternal restraint to which you have been condemned from your birth. Do you likewise, whom,nature
nature has endowed with a free spirit, independent of pre B 0 0 K,XVIII- judice anterior, who dare to think and talk like men, , do you erase from your minds every idea of truth, na ture, and humanity. Applaud every attack made on your country and your fellow-citizens, or else maintain a pro found silences the recesses of obscurity and concealment. All ye who were born in those barbarous Rates, where the condition for the mutual restoration of deserters has been entered into by the several princes, and fealed.by a treaty.; recollect the inscription Dante has engraved on the gates his infernal region:. oi hc' estate, fascinate aoai omni stanza: rou who enter here, may leave ebinid you every. ope. . WHAT ! is there then no asylum remaining beyond the seas? Will not England open her colonies to.tholfe wretches, who voluntarily prefer her dominion tother,. supportable yoke of their. own country ?. What need has the of that infamous band of contracted .slaves,, kidnap pet. and debauched by the. hateful means. employed by every state to increase their armies? What need has i`,e of those beings still more miserable, of whom Decomposes the third class of. her American population ? Yes by an iniquity the more shocking as,it is apparently the less necessary; her northern colonies have watercourse to the traffic, and slavery of the negroes. It Will not be disowned, that they may be better fed, better, clothed, less ill treated, and less overburthened with toil than in the sands. The laws protect them more effectually, and they seldom become the victims of the barbarity or caprice of an odious tyrant. But frill what.mu if e. the burthen of a man's life who is condemned q .anguish in eternal slavery.? Some humane sectaries: ,christians who look for. virtues in the gospel, more than, for. opinions, have often been desirous of restoring to their slaves that,liberty
0 0 X liberty for which they cannot receive any adequate com ,.p sensation; but they have been a long time withheld,bya law of the slate, which directed that an assignment of a sufficiency for subsistence should be made to those who were set at liberty. LET us rather say, the convenient custom of being waited on by slaves; the fondness we have for power, which we attempt to justify by pretending to alleviate their servitude; the opinion so readily entertained that they do not complain of a fate, which is by time changed into nature: there are the sophisms of self-love, calculated to appease the clamours 6f conscience. The'ge- reality of mankind are not born with evil dispositions, or prone to do ill by choice; but even among those whom nature seems to have formed just and good, there are but few who possess a foul sufficiently disinterested, courage vous and great, to do any good action, if they must sacrifice some advantage for it. BUT still the quakers have just set an example which ought to make an el'ocha in the history of religion and humanity In one of these assemblies, where every one of the faithful,' who conceives himself moved by the impulse of the holy spirit, has a right of speaking; one of the brethren, who was himsel undoubtedly inspired on this occasion, arose and laid: " HRo' long then shall we have " two consciences, two'mearures, two scales; one in " our own favour, one for the ruin of our neighbour, " both'equally fife? Is it for us, brethren, to complain " at this moment, that the parliament of England withes " to enslave us, and to impose upon us the'yoke of sub " jews, without leaving us the rights of citizens; while " for this century past, we have been calmly acting the " part of tyrants, by keeping in bonds of the hardest slavery men who are our equals and our brethren ?," What
-' What have those unhappy creatures done to us, whom B 0 0 " nature had separated from us by barriers so formidable, -' " " whom our avarice has fought after through stern s and c" wrecks,'and brought away from the midit- of their " burning ifa'ds, or from their dark forests inhabited by " tygers ? What crime have they been guilty of, that " they should be torn from 'a country which fed them (4 without 'oil, and that they should be transplanted by " us to a land where they perish under the labours of ser " virtute? Father of Heaven, what family half Thou " then created, in which the elder born, after'having " seized on' the property of their brethren, are frill re " solved to compel them, with (tripes, to manure with " the blood of their veins and the sweat of their brow " 'that very inheritance of which they have been sobbed ? " Deplorable 'ace, whom we render brutes to tyrannize .' over them: in whom we extinguish every power of the ' foul, t6'16ad their limbs'and their bodies with'burdens; " in whdmiwe efface the image of God, and the frame "of manhood. A race mutilated and dilhorioufed as to "the faculties of mind and body, throughout its silence, " by uswho are christians and Englishmen Englishmen, " ye"'p'eople favoured by Heaven, and'recpeci:d on the " teas, would ye be free and tyrants at the same instant ? ' No. Brethren: it is time we should be'conliflent with "ourselves. Let us set free those miserable victims of our " pride : let's restore the'negroes to liberty, which man " should sever' take from' man. May all christian's cities be induced by our example repair an injustice "authorized by the crimes' and plunders f 'two centuries ! May men too'long degraded, at length raise to " Heaven their arms freed from chains, and their 'eyes " bathed in tears of gratitude ! Alas ! the unhappy mor " talk have hitherto shed no tears but those of despair !',THIS
B 00 K THIS discourse awakened remorse, and. the saves in . - . Pennsylvania were set at liberty. Revolution fo.amazing,mult necessarily have been.the work of a people inclined to toleration. But let us not expect similar instances of heroifimin those countries which are as deep-funk in bar barium by the vices attendant on luxury, as they have for merely been from ignorance. When a,govemrnmqet, at once both priestly and military, has brought every thing, even the opinions of men, under its yoke,. when man, become an impostor, has persuaded the armed:multi.tude that he holds from Heaven the right of oppressing the earth i there is no ihadow.of !liberty left for civilized na tions. Why hould theynot hake their revenge on the savage people of the torrid zone ? Present NOT to mention the population of the negroes, .which tate of may amount to 300,OCo flies, in co a million. of in population in the habitants were reckoned in the Britifl provinces of North Eng!ifli America. There must be, now upwards of two millions; provinces of North as it is proved by undeniable calculations that the number America. of people doubles every j5 or .6 years in rome of ,those provinces, and every 18 or .2o.in others., So rapid an increase must have two source., the sirs is that number of Irishmen, .Jews, Frenchmen,. Switzers, Palatines, Moravians, and Saltzbulgbher, who after hvirig been worn out with the political and religious troubles they had experienced in Europe, have gone in search of .peace and quietness in distant climates. 1 he second source of that amazing increase is from the climate itself of the co ionics, where experience has Shewn that the people na naturally doubled their numbers every five and twenty years. Mr. Franklin's remarks will make these truths evident. THE, numbers of the peopk, says that philosopher, in crease every where in proportion to the number of mar ridges ; and that number increases as the means. of sub-trifling
filling a family are rendered more easy. In a country B O 0 K,XVIII where the means of subsistence abound, more people mar ry early. In a society, whole prosperity is a mark of its antiquity, the rich alarmed at the expences which female luxury brings along with it, are as late as possible in forming an establishment, which it is difficult to fix, and whose maintenance is cosily; and the persons, who have no fortunes, pass their-days in a celibacy which disturbs the married (late. The matters have but few children, the servants have none at all ; and the artificers are afraid of having any. This irregularity is so perceptible, es specially in great towns, that families-are not kept up sus anciently to maintain population in an even slate, and that we constantly find there more deaths than births. Hap pity for us that decay has not yet penetrated into the country, where the constant practice of making up the deficiency of the towns gives a little more scope for po pulsation. But the lands being every where occupied, and let at the highest rate, thole who cannot arrive at pro party of their own, are hired by those who have pro party. Rivalfhip, owing to the multitude of workmen, lowers the price of labour, and the smallness of their pro fits takes away the desire and the hope, as well as the abilities requisite for increase by marriage. Such is the pre sent fate of Europe. THAT of America presents an appearance of a quite contrary nature. Traits of land, waste and uncultivated are to be had either for nothing, or so cheap, that a man of the least turn for labour, is furnished in a short time with an extent, which while it is sufficient to rear a numerous family, will maintain his posterity for a con miserable time. The inhabitants, therefore, of the new world, induced likewise by the climate, marry in greater numbers, and at an earlier time of life, than-the in VoL, IV. A a - habitants
B O K habitants of Europe. Where one hundred enter into the xvIII. i. . married fate in Europe, there are two hundred in America, and if we reckon four children to each marriage in our dilates, we should allow, at least, eight in the new he sphere. If we multiply there families by their produce, it will appear that in lets than two centuries the British northern colonies will arrive at an immense degree of po pulsation, unless the mother country contrive some ob flashes to impede its natural progress. Happiness THEY are now peopled with healthy and robust men, of the in habitants of a nature above the common size. These Creoles are in the rB- more quick and come to their full growth sooner than the tiff colo ' nies of Europeans: but they are not so long-lived. The low North; price of meat, fish, grain, game, fruits, cyder, vege- America.,tables, keeps the inhabitants in a great plenty of things merely for nourishment. It is necessary to be more care ful with respect to clothing, which is Rill very dear, whether brought from Europe, or made in the country. Manners are in the state they Should be among young co ionics, and people given to cultivation, not yet polished nor corrupted by the retort of great cities. Throughout the families in general, there reigns ceconomy, neatness, and regularity. Gallantry and gaming, the passions of easy wealth, seldom break in upon that happy tranquil city. The sex are Still what they should be, gentle, mo deft, compassionate, and useful; they are in possession of those virtues which continue the empire of their charms. The men are employed in their original duties, the care and improvement of their plantations, which will be the support of their posterity. One general sentiment of be benevolence unites every family. Nothing contributes to this union so much as a certain equality of Station, a fe purity that arises from property, a general hope which every man has of increasing it, and the facility of succeeding
feeding in this expectation; in a word, nothing contrive 0 0 K,XVIII. butes to it so much as the reciprocal independence in. V which all men live, with respect to their wants, joined to the necessity of social connections for the purposes of their pleasures. Instead of luxury, which brings misery in its train, instead of that afflicting and shocking contrast, an universal welfare wisely dealt out in the original distribution of the lands, has by the influence of industry given rise in every breast to the desire of pleasing one another; a desire, without doubt, more satisfactory than the secret disposition to injure our brethren, which is inseparable from an extreme inequality of fortune and condition. Men never meet without satisfaction when they are neither in that state of mutual distance which leads to indifference nor in that way of rivalfhip which borders on ha red. They come nearer together and collet in societies; in short it is in the colonies that men lead such a country life as was the original destination of mankind, best suit ed to the health and increase of the species: probably, they enjoy all the happiness consistent with the frailty of human nature. We do not, indeed, find there those graces, those talents, these refined enjoyments, the means and expence of which wear out and fatigue the springs of the foul, and bring on the vapors of melancholy which so naturally follow an indulgence in ardent pleasure: but there are the pleasures of domestic life, the mutual attach ments of parent and children, and conjugal love, that passion so pure and so delicious to the foul that can taste it, and despise all other gratifications. This is the en chanting prospect exhibited throughout North America. It is in the wilds of Florida and Virginia, even in the forests of Canada, that men are enable. to continue to love their whole life long what was the object of their,Aa 2 first
B 0 0 K first affection, innocence and virtue, which never entire. XVII ,ly lose their beauty.,IF any thing be wanting in British America, it is its not forming precisely one people. Families are there found sometimes re-united, sometimes dispersed, originating from all the different countries of Europe. These colonists, in whatever spot chance or discernment may have placed them, all preserve with a prejudice not to be worn out, their mother tongue, the partialities and the customs of their own country. Separate schools and churches hin'-r them from mixing with the hospitable people, who hold out to them a place of refuge. Still estranged from this people by worship, by manners, and probably by their feelings, they harbour feeds of distention that may one day prove the ruin and total over throw of the colonies. The only preservative against this disaster depends entirely on the management of the ruling powers. Vihat kind BY ruling powers must not be understood those strange of govern-constitutions of Europe, which are a rude mixture of n:er.t is established sacred and profane laws. English America was wise or si hoe Bi happy enough net to admit any ecclesiastical power: being mines of from the beginning inhabited by presbyterians, The renewed North . with horror every thing that might revive the idea of it.,All affairs that in the other parts of the globe depend on the tribunal of priests, are here brought before the civil magistrate, or the national assemblies. The attempts made by those of the English church to establish their hierarchy in that country, have ever been abortive, not withstanding the f port given by the mother country-but still they have their share in the administration of bu finely as well as those of other fess. None but catholics have been excluded, on account of their refuting those oaths which the public tranquillity seemed to require. In,this
this view American government has deserved great corn B O K emendation; but in other repeat, it is not so well com XV dined. POLICY, in its aim and principal object resembles the education of children. They both tend to form men, and Should be similar to each other in many repeat. Savage people, first united in society, require as much as children to be sometimes led on by gentle means, and sometimes refrained by compulsion. For wants ex prince, which alone forms our reason, as they are in capable of governing themselves throughout the changes of things and the various concerns that belong to a rising society, government should unenlightened with regard to them, and guide them by authority to years of maturity. Just barbarous nations are under the rod, and as it were in the leading-strings of despotism, till in the advance of society, their interests teach them to conduct themselves. CIVILIZED nations, like young men, more or less ad danced not in proportion to their abilities, hut from the contra of their early education, as soon as they come to their own strength, and their own pretensions, require being managed and even respected by their governors. A son well educated should engage in no undertaking with out consulting his father: a prince on the contrary should make no regulations without consulting his people: further, the son, in resolutions where he follows the advice of his fa ther, frequently hazards nothing but his own happiness; in 21l that a prince ordains, the happiness of his people is con cornet. 1 he opinion of the public, in a nation that thinks and speaks, is the rule of the government: and the prince should never shock that opinion without public reasons, nor strive against it without conviction. Government is to model all its forms according to that opinion: opinion, it is well known, varies with manners, habits, and in-,A a 3 formation.
B 0 0 Formation. So that one prince may without finding the XVIII. i . . .,leall resistance do an ar of authority not to be revived,by his successor, without exciting the public indignation. From whence does this difference arise ? The predecessor cannot have locked an opinion that was not sprung up in his time, while a succeeding prince may have openly counteracted it a century later. The first, if I may be allowed the expression, without the knowledge of the public, may have taken a shep whose violence he may have softened or made amends for by the happy success of his government; the other, shall, perhaps, have increased the public calamities by such unjuR acts of wilful au authority, as may perpetuate its first abuses. Public remonstrance is generally the cry of opinion; and the general opinion is the rule of government: and because public opinion governs mankind, kings for this reason become rulers of men. Governments then as well as opinions ought to improve and advance to perfection. But what is the rule for opinions among an enlightened people ? It is the permanent interest of society, the safety and ad vantage of the nation. This interest is modified by the turn of events and situations; public opinion and the form of the government follow these several modifications. This is the source of all the forms of government, established by the EngS'if, who are rational and free, through out North America.,THE government of Nova Scotia, of one of the pro vices in New England, New York, New Jersey, Vir ginia, the two Carolinas and Georgia is stiled royal; be cause the king of England is there veiled with the fu prime authority. Representatives of the people form a lower house, as in the mother country: a select council, approved by the king, intended to support the prerogatives of the crown, represents the house of peers, and maintains
pains that representation by the fortune and rank of the B O O K most distinguished persons in the country, who are mem boers of it. A governor convenes, prorogues, and dissolves their assemblies ; gives or refuses ;sent to their de liberations, which receive from his approbation the force of law, till the king, to whom they are transmitted, has rejected them. THE second kind of government which takes place in the colonies, is known by the name of proprietary go government. When the English first fettled in those distant regions, a greedy, active court favourite easily obtained in those wastes, which were as large as kingdoms, a pro portland authority without bounds. A bow and a few skins, the only homage exacted by the crown, purchased for a man in power the right of sovereignty, or governing as he pleased in an unknown country: such was the origin of government in the greater part of the colonies. At present, Maryland and Pennsylvania are the only provinces under this singular form of government; or rather this irregular foundation of sovereignty. Mar land, indeed, differs from the reft of the provinces only by receiving its governor from the family of Baltimore, whose no nation is to be approved by the king. In Pennsylvania, the governor named by the proprietary family, and con firmed by the crown, is not supported by council which gives a kind of superiority, and he is obliged to agree with the commons, in whom is naturally veiled all au authority. A third form, filled by the English, charter govern ment, seems more calculated to adduce harmony in the constitution. After having been that of all the provinces of New England, it now subsists only in Connecticut, and in Rhode island. It may be considered as a mere democracy. The inhabitants of themselves elect, deposes a 4 all
B O O all their officers, and make all laws they think proper, Xi. without being obliged to have the assent of the king, orchis having any right to annul them. AT length the conquest of Canada, joined to the ac question of Florida, has given rise to a form of legislation hitherto unknown throughout the realm of Great Bri tain. Those provinces have been put or left under the yoke of military, and consequently absolute authority. Without any right to assemble in a national body, they receive immediately from the court of London every mo tion of government this diversity of governments is not the work of the mother country. We do not find the traces of a rea unable, uniform and regular legislation. It is chance, climate, the prejudices of the times and of the founders of the colonies that have produced this motley variety of con Situations. It is not for men, who are cast by chance upon a desert coast, to constitute a legislation. ALL legislation, in its nature, should aim at the hap pines of society. The means by which it is to attain that singular elevated point, depend entirely on its natural qualities. Climate, that is to say, the sky and the soil, are the first rule for the legislator. His resources dictate to him his duties. In the first instance, the local position should consulted. A number of people thrown on a maritime coast, will have laws more or less relative to agriculture or navigation, in proportion to the influence the sea or land may have on the subsidence of the in habitants who are to people that desert coast. If the new colony is led by the course of some large river' far within land, a legislator ought to have regard to their race, and the degree of their fecundity, and the connections the colony will have either within or without by,the
the traffic of commodities most advantageous to its prof B o o K,XVIII. purity. BUT it is especially in the distribution of property that the wisdom of legislation will appear. In general and throughout all the countries in the world, when a colony is founded, land is to be given to every person, that is to say, to every one an extent sufficient for the maintenance of a family: more should be given to those who have abilities to make the necessary advances for improvement: some should be kept vacant for posterity, or for additional settlers, with which the colony may in time be augmented. THE first object of a rising colony is subsistence and population: the next is the prosperity likely to flow from these two sources. To avoid occasions of war, whether offensive or defensive; to turn industry towards those ob seas which produce most; not to form connections around them, except such as are unavoidable, and may be proportioned to the stability which the colony acquires by the number of its inhabitants, and the nature of its resources; to introduce above all things a partial and local spirit in a nation which is going to be established, a spirit of union within, and of peace without; to refer every inflitution to a distant but lasting point; and to make every occasional law subservient to the fettled regulation which alone is to effect an increase of numbers, and to give Liability to the settlement: these circumstances make no more than a sketch of a legislation. THE moral system is to be formed on the nature of the climate; a large field for population is at first to be laid open by facilitating marriage, which depends upon the facility of procuring subsistence. Sanity of manners should be established by opinion. In a barbarous island, which is to be stocked with children, no more would be necessary than to leave the first dawning of truth to en-large
B 0 O Large themselves, as reason unfolds itself. With proper . precautions again idle fears, proceeding from ignorance the errors of superstition should be removed, till that period when the warmth of the natural passions, fortunately uniting with the rational powers, dissipates every phantom. But when people, already advanced in life, are to Be established in a new country, the ability of le violation consists in not leaving behind any injurious opinions or habits, which may be cured or corrected. If we wish that they should not be transmitted to posterity, we should watch over the second generation by a general and public education of the children. A prince or legis later should never found a colony, without previously sending thither some proper persons for the education of youth; that is, some governors rather than teachers: for it is of less moment to teach them what is good, than to guard them from evil. Good education arrives too late, when the people are already corrupted. The feeds of morality and virtue, sown in the infancy of a race already corrupted, are annihilated in the early sages of manhood by debauchery, and the contagion of such vices as have already become habitual in society. The best educated young men cannot come into the world without making engagements and contracting acquaintance, on which the remainder of their lives depends. If they marry, follow any profession, or pursuit, they find the feeds of evil and corruption rooted in every condition: a conduce entirely opposite to their principles; example and discourse which disconcerts and combats their best resolutions. BuT in a rising colony, the influence of the first ge negation may be corrected by the manners of the succeeding The minds of all are prepared for virtue by labour. The necessities of life remove all vices proceed-sing
ing from leisure. The overflowing of such population B 0 O K have a natural tendency towards the mother country, where XVIII. luxury continually invites and seduces the rich and voluptuous planter. All means are open to the precautions of a legislator, who intends to refine the constitution and manners of the colony. Let them but have genius and virtue, the lands and the people he has to manage will fugger to his mind a plan of society, that a whiter can only mark out in a vague manner, liable to all the uncertainty of hypotheses that are varied and complicated by an infinity of circumstances too difficult to be fore seen and put together. BUT the first foundation of a society for cultivation or commerce, is property. It is the feed of good and evil, natural or moral, consequent on the social fate. Every nation seems to be divided into two irreconcilable parties. The rich and the poor, the men of property, and the hirelings, that is to say, mailers and slaves, form two classes of citizens, unfortunately in opposition with one another. IN vain have some modern authors wished by sophistry to establish a treaty of peace between there two states. The rich on all occasions are disposed to get a great deal from the poor at little expence; and the poor are ever in lined to set a higher value on their labour: while the rich man must always give the law in that too unequal bargain. Hence arises the system of counterpoise established in so many countries. The people have not de fired to attack property which they considered as. sacred, but they have made attempts to fetter it, and to check its natural tendency to absorb the whole. These counterpoise have almost always been ill applied, as they were but a feeble remedy against the original evil in society. It is then to the repartition of lands that a legislator will,turn
B 00 Turn his principal attention. The more wisely that di. xvii . retribution shall be managed, the more simple, uniform and precise will be those laws of the country which principally conduce to the preservation of property. THE English colonies partake, in that refpea, of the radical vice inherent in the ancient constitution of the mother country. As its present government is but a re formation of that feudal government which had oppressed all Europe, it till retains many usages, which being originally but abuses of servitude, are fill more sensible by their contrast with the liberty which the people have re covered. It has, therefore, been found necessary join the laws which left many rights to the nobility to those which modify, lessen, abrogate or soften the feudal rights. Hence so many laws of exception for one of principle; so many of interpretation for one fundamental; so many new laws that are at variance with the old. So that it is agreed, there is not in the wh,,le world a code so diffuse, so perplexed as that of the civil law of Great Britain. The wisest men of that enlightened nation have often exclaimed against this disorder. They have either not been heard, or the changes which have been produced by their remonstrances, have only served to increase the con fafion.,BY their dependence and their ignorance the colonies have blindly adopted that deformed and ill-digested mass, whose burden oppressed their ancestors: they have added to that obscure heap of materials by every new law that the times, manners, and place could introduce. From this mixture has resulted a chaos the moR difficult to un sold; a collection of contradictions that require much pains to reconcile. Immediately there sprang up a nu serous body of lawyers to devour the lands and inhabitants of those new-fettled climates. The fortune and,in-
influence they have acquired in a short time, have brought B O O K,XVIII. into subjection to their rapaciousness the valuable class of .e. citizens employed in agriculture, commerce, in all the arts and toils moss indispensably necessary for all society; but almost singularly essential to a rising community. To the severe evil of chicane, which has attached itself to the branches, in order to seize on the fruit, has succeeded the scourge of finance, which preys on the heart and root of the tree. IN the origin of the colonies, the coin bore the same The concurrent in value as in the mother country. The scarcity of it on the English occasioned a rise of one third. That inconvenience was colonies of,North not remedied by the abundance of specie which came America. from the Spanish colonies; because they were obliged to transmit that into England in order to pay for the mer chastise they wanted from thence. This was a gulph that fucked up the circulation in the colonies. The confusion occasioned by this continual export furnished a pretence for the-employing of paper-money. THERE are two forts of it. The first has in view the .encouragement of agriculture, trade and industry. Every colonist who has more ambition than means, obtains from the province a paper credit, provided he consents to pay an interest of 5 per cent. furnishes a sufficient mort gage, and agrees to repay every year a tenth of the capital borrowed. By means of this mark, which is received without dispute into the public treasury, and which their fellow-citizens cannot refuse, the business of private per sons becomes more brisk and easy. The government it self draws considerable advantages from this circulation; because as it receives interest and pays none, it can with out the aid of taxes apply this suns to the important ob jets of public utility.,*BUT
BOO OK BUT there is another fort of paper, whose existence i! XVIrs . j solely owing to the necessities of government. The several provinces of America had formed projects and con traced engagements beyond their abilities. They though( to make good the deficiency of their money by credit. Taxes were imposed to liquidate those bills that prefect for payment; but before the taxes had produced that fa salutary offer, new wants came on that required fresh loans. The debts, therefore, accumulated, and the taxes were not sufficient to answer them: At length, the amount of the government bills exceeded all bounds after the late hostilities, during which the colonies had raised and provided for 25,000 men, and contributed to all the expences of so long and obstinate a war. The paper thus sank into the utmost disrepute, though it had been intro. duce only by the content of the.feveral general assemblies and that each province was to be answerable for what was of their own creation. THE parliament of Great Britain observed this confusion and attempted to remedy it. They regulated the quantity of paper circulation each colony should create for the future, and as far as their information went, pro portioned the mass of it to their riches and resources. This regulation displeased all persons, and in the year 1769, it was softened. PAPER, of the usual figure of the coin, still continues to pass in all kind of business. Each piece is composed of two round leaves, glued one on the other, and bear ing on each side the stamp that distinguishes them. There are rome of every value. Each province has a public building for the making of them, and private houses from whence they are distributed: the pieces, which are much worn or foiled, are carried to there houses, and fresh ones received in exchange. There never has been an instances
of the officers employed in these exchanges having been B O O K guilty of the least fraud. XVIII. BUT this honesty is not sufficient for the prosperity of the colonies. Though for forty years their consumption has increased four times as much as their population, from whence it is apparent that the abilities of each sub sea are four times what they were, yet one may foretel that there large establishments will never rise to that de gree of splendour for which nature designs them, unless the fetters are broken, which confine both their interior industry and their foreign trade. THE first colonists that peopled North America applied The Eng- themselves in the beginning solely to agriculture. It was lit colo not long before they perceived that their exports did not North A- enable them to buy what they wanted, and they, therefore, hera cedar found themselves in a manner compelled to set up rome rude their indus. manufactures. The interests of the mother country seem try and commerce. ed hurt at this innovation. The circumstance was brought into parliament, and there discussed with all the attention it deserved. There were men bold enough'to defend the cause of the colonists. They urged, that as the business of tillage did not employ men all the year round, it was tyranny to oblige them to waste in idleness the time which the land did not require: that as the produce of agriculture and hunting did not furnish them to the extent of their wants, it was reducing them to misery to hinder the people from providing against them by a new species of in dusty: in short, that the prohibition of manufactures only tended to occasion the price of all provisions in a rising fate to be enhanced, to lessen, or, perhaps, flop the sale of them, and keep off such persons as might in tend to fettle there. THE evidence of these principles was not to be con traversed: they were complied with aster great dclrates.,The
B 0 0 K The Americans were permitted to manufacture their own ~, cloths themselves, but with such restrictions as betrayed how much avarice regretted, what an appearance of justice could not but allow. All communication from one pro vince to another on this account was,feverely prohibited. They were forbidden under the heaviest penalties to traffic from one to the other for wool of any fort, raw, or ma nufaaured. However, fomemanufaturers of hats ventured to break through these restrictions. To put a flop to what was termed a heinous disorderly practice, the parliament had recourse to that mean and cruel spirit of regulations. A workman was not empowered to set up for himself till after seven years apprenticeship; a mailer was not allowed to have more than two apprentices at a time, nor employ any save in his workshop iron mines, which seem to put into mens hands the marks of their own independence, were laid under re frictions still more fevers It was not allowed to carry iron in bars, or rough lumps any where but to the mother country. Without crucibles to melt it, or machines to bend it, without hammers or anvils to fashion it, they had still less the liberty of converting it into steel. IMPORTATION received fill further restraints. All so reign vessels, unless in evident distress or danger of wreck, or freighted with gold or silver, were not to come into any of the ports of North America. Even English vessels are not admitted there, unless they come immediately from some port of. that country. The shipping of the colonies going to Europe, are to bring back no merchandise but from the mother country, except wine from the Madeiras, and the Azores, and salt necessary for their fifleries.,ALL exportations were originally to terminate in England but weighty reasons have determined the govern-ment
IN THE EAST AND WEST INDIES. 369 ment to relax and abate this extreme severity. It is at B O 0 K' present allowed to the colonists to carry directly south of. . Cape Finisterre, grain, meal, rice, vegetables, fruit, salt, fish, planks, and timber. All other productions belong exclusively to the mother country. Even Ireland that furnished an advantageous vent for corn, flax, and pipe slaves, has been (hut against them by an aa of parliament of 1766. THE parliament, which is the representative of the nation, assumes the right of directing commerce in its whole extent throughout the British dominions. It is by that authority they pretend to regulate the connections between the mother country and the colonies, to main tain a communication, an advantageous reciprocal re action between the scattered parts of the immense em pire. There should, in fa, be one power to appeal to, in order to determine finally upon the relations that may be useful or prejudicial to the general good of the whole society. The parliament is the only body that can assume such an important power. But they ought to employ it to the advantage of every member of that confederated society. This is an inviolable maxim, especially in a fate where all the powers are formed and directed for the preservation of natural liberty. THEY departed from that principle of impartiality, which alone can maintain the equal state of independence among the several members of a free government; when the colonies were obliged to vent in the mother country all their productions, even those which were not for its own consumption: when they were obliged to take from the mother country all kinds of merchandise, even those which came from foreign nations This im serious and useless restraint, loading the sales and purchases of the Americans with unnecessary and ruinous charges, Vol. IV. B b has
B 0 0 K has of course ,lessened their activity, and consequently XVlII., v diminished their profits; and it has been only for the purpose of enriching a few merchants, or some factors at home, that the rights and interests of the colonies have thus been sacrificed. All they owed to England for the protection they received from her, was but a preference in the sale and importation of all such of their commo cities as she could consume; and a preference in the pur chafe and in the exportation of all such merchandise as came from her hands: so far all submission was a return of gratitude; beyond it all obligation was violence. IT is thus that tyranny has given birth to contraband trade. Transgression is the firs effect produced by un reasonable laws. In vain has it frequently been repeated to the colonies, that smuggling was contrary to the fun mental interest of their settlements, to all reason of government, and to the express intentions. of law. In vain has it been continually laid down in public writings that the subject who pays duty is oppressed by him who does not pay it;' and that the fraudulent merchant robs the fair trader by disappointing him of his lawful profit. In vain have precautions been multiplied for preventing such frauds, and fresh penalties inflicted for the punishment of them. The voice of interest, reason and equity has pre wailed over all the clamours and attempts of finance. Foreign importations smuggled into North America, amount to one third of those which pay duty. AN indefinite liberty, or merely a restraint within due bounds, will flop the prohibited engagements of which so much complaint has been made. Then the colonies will arrive at a slate of affluence, which will enable them to discharge a weight of debt due to the mother country, amounting, perhaps, to 150 millions,(t) and to draw yearly (?) 6,56»,5001.
yearly from thence goods to the amount of o18 mil-B 0 OK,XVIII. lions,(u) agreeable to the calculation of American con gumption fated by the parliament of Great Britain in 1766. But instead of this pleasing prospect, which one should imagine muff of course arise from the constitution of the English government, was there any necessity by a pretension not to be supported among a free people, to introduce into the colonies with the hardships of taxation the feeds of disorder and discord, and perhaps to kin idle a flame which it is not so easy to extinguish as tonight up? ENGLAND had just emerged from a war, as one may The mo.,ther-coun- say universal, during which her fleets had planted the try has at standard of victory over all the seas, and her conquests tempted to had enlarged her dominion with an immense territory in taxes the both the Indies. Such a sudden increase gave her in the clothes of,North eyes of all the world a splendour that must raise envy and America. admiration; but within herself she was continually re Whether,file had a cured to grieve at her triumphs. Crushed with a load right to do of debt to the amount of 3,330,000,000 livres,(w) that this? cost her an interest 1 l 1,577,490 livrcs(x) a year, the was with difficulty able to support the current expences of the fate, with a revenue of 240,000,000 livres ;(y) and that revenue far from increasing was not even secure of its continuance. THE land was charged with a higher tax than it had ever been in time of peace. New duties on houses and windows undermined that fort of property; and an increase of flock on a review of the finances depressed the value of the whole. A terror had been struck even into luxury itself by taxes heaped on plate, cards, dice, wines, and brandy. No further expectation was left for commences b 2 which (u) 4,7S5,000.o (t.) 145,6S7,5001 (.) .,t81,5S5,. 35. g9. 9 (y) lb,500,ooo/
B O O K which paid in every port, at every issue for the merchandise of Asia, for the produce of America, for spices, silks,,so- every article of export or import, whether manufactured or inwrought. The prohibitions of heavy duties had fortunately refrained the abuses of Spirituous liquors; but that was partly at the expence of the public revenue. It was thought amends would be made by one of those expedients which it is generally easy to find, but hazard vous to look out for among the object of general con gumption, and absolute necessity. Duties were laid on the ordinary drink of the common people, on malt, cider, and beer. Every spring was strained: every power of the body politic had been extended to its utmost stretch. Materials and workmanship had so prodigiously risen in price, that foreigners, whether rivals or con queried, which before had not been able to support a con tell with the English, were enabled to supplant them in every market, even in their own ports. The commercial advantages of Britain with every part of the world could not be valued at more than fifty-fix millions ;(z) and that situation obliged her to draw from the balance 35,1too0,c livres,(a) to pay the arrears of i, 170,000,000 livres) which foreigners had placed in her public funds. THE crisis was a violent one. It was time to give the people some relief. They could not be eased by a diminution of expences, those being inevitable, either for the pur pose of improving the conquests purchased by such a loss of blood and treasure; or'to mitigate the feelings of the House of Bourbon, soured by the humiliations of the late war, and the sacrifices of the late peace. In default of other means, to manage with a ready hand as well the present security as future prosperity, the expedient occur red of calling in the colonies to the aid of the mother country ( ,a)l. (al,5356-51. S(",1875001
country, by making them bear a part of her burthen. B O O K- This determination seemed to be founded on reasons not . to be controverted. IT is a duty imposed by the avowed maxims of all so cities and of every age, on the different members which compose a'fiate, to contribute towards all expences in proportion to theirrefpeAive abilities. The security of the American provinces requires such a share of assistance from them, as may enable the mother country to protect them upon all occasions. It was to deliver them from the uneasiness that molested them, that England had en gaged in a war which has multiplied her debts: they ought then to aid her in bearing or lessening the weight of that overcharged present, when they are freed of all apprehensions from the attempts of a formidable adversary, which they have fortunately removed, can they without injustice refute their deliverer, when her necessities are pressing, that money which purchased their preservation ? Has not that generous protector, for a con miserable time, granted encouragement to the improve ment of their rich productions? Has the not lavished gratuitous advances of money, and does the not fil) la wish them on lands not yet cleared ? Do not such benefits deserve to meet a return of relief and even of services ? SuCH were the motives that perluadedthe British go government that they had a right to establish taxation in the colonies. They availed themselves of the event of the late war to assert this claim so dangerous to liberty. For if we attend to it, we shall find that war, whether successful or not, serves always as a pretext for every usurpation of government; as if the heads of warring na tions rather intended to reduce their subjects to more confirmed submission, than to make a conquest of their enemies. The American provinces were accordingly or-,13 b 3 dcrcd
B O O Tered to furnish the troops sent by the mother country for - ml their security with a part of the necessaries required by,an army. The apprehension of disturbing that agree ment which is so necessary among ourselves, when fur rounded by adversaries without, induced them to comply with the injunctions of the parliament; but with such prudence as not to speak of an a& they could neither re jet without occasioning civil distention, nor recognize without exposing rights too precious to be forfeited. New-york alone ventured to disapprove the orders sent from Europe. Though the transgression was flight, it was punished as a disobedience by a suspension of her privileges.,IT was moll probable, that this attack !made on the liberty of the colony would excite the remonstrance of all the ref. Either through want of attention or foresight, neither of them complained. This silence was interpreted to proceed from fear, or from voluntary sub mission. Peace, that should lessen taxes every where, gave birth in the year 1764 to that famous stamp-act, which, by laying a duty on all marked paper, at the same time sorbad the use of any other in public writings, whether judicial, or extra-judicial.,ALL the English colonies of the new continent re voted against this innovation, and their discontent ma manifested itself by signal acts. They entered into an agree ment or conspiracy, the only one that suited moderate and civilized people, to forego all manufactures made up in the mother country, till, the bill they complained of was repealed. The women, whose weakness was most to be feared, were the first to give up whatever Europe had before furnished them with, either for parade or convenience Animated by their example, the men rejected the commodities for which they were indebted to the old,world.
world. In the northern countries, they were found pay B O O K ing as much for the coarse stuffs, made under their own inspection, as for fine cloths which were brought over the seas. They engaged not to eat lamb, that their flocks might increase, and in time be sufficient for the clothing of all the colonists. In the southern provinces where wool is scarce and of an inferior quality, they were to dress themselves with cotton and flax furnished by their own climate. Agriculture was every where neglected in order that the people might qualify themselves for the industry of the workshop. THIS kind of indirect and passive opposition, which deserves to be imitated by all nations who may hereafter be aggrieved by the undue exercise of authority, produced the desired effet. The English manufacturers who had scarce any other vent for their goods than their own co ionics, sell into that state of despondency, which is the natural consequence of want of employment: and their complaints which could neither be stifled nor concealed by administration, made an impression which proved fa favourable to the colonies. The stamp-act was repealed after a violent struggle that lasted two years, and which in an age of fanaticism, would, doubtless, have occasioned a civil war. BUT the triumph of the colonies did not las long. The parliament had given up the point with the greater reluctance: and it clearly appeared they had not laid aside their pretensions, when in 1767, they threw the duties which the stamp-act would have produced, upon all glass, lead, tea, colours, pasteboard, and stained paper export ed from England to America. Even the patriots them selves who seemed most inclined to enlarge the authority of the mother country over the colonies, could not help condemning a tax, which in its consequences must assec,B b 4 the
B OK thewhole nation, by disposing numbers to apply them , .selves to manufactures, who ought to have been solely devoted to the improvement of lands. The colonies have not been the dupes of this, any more than of the first innovation. It has in vain been urged that government had the power to impose what duties it thought proper upon exported goods, so long as it did not deprive the co ionics of the liberty of manufacturing the articles subjea to this new tax. This subterfuge has been considered as a derision, in respect to a people who being devoted en timely to agriculture, and confined to trade only with the mother country, could not procure either by their own labour, or by their connexions abroad, the necessary ar titles that were sold them at so high a price. They thought when a tax was to be imposed, it was nothing more than a nominal distinction, whether it were levied in Europe, or America; and that their liberty was equally infringed by a duty laid upon commodities they really wanted, as by a tax upon fiampt paper, which they had been made to consider as a necessary article. There in intelligent people saw that government was inclined to de clive them, and thought it an indignity to sussex them selves to be the dupes either of force, or of fraud. It ap feared to them the surest mark of weakness and de general in the subjects of any nation, to wink at all the artful and violent measures adopted by government to cor rapt and enslave them the dislike they have shewn to there new imposts, was not founded on the idea of their being exorbitant, as they did not amount to more than one livre, 8 fols(r) for each person: which could give no alarm to a very po populous community, whose public expence never exceeded the annual sum of 3,600,000 livres.(d),IT (r) About XI, 3d. (d) 157,5001.
IT was not from any apprehension that the ease of their B 0 0 K,XVllI. circumstances would be affected: since the security they . derived from the-provinces ceded by France in the laRs war; the increase of their trade with the savages; the enlargement of their whale and cod fisheries, together with those of the shark and the feal ; the right of cutting wood in the bay of Campeachy; the acquisition of several sugar islands; the opportunities of carrying on a con brabant trade with the neighbouring Spanish settlements: all there circumstances of advantage were abundantly sus ancient to compensate the small proportion of revenue which government seemed so anxious to raise. IT was not their concern left the colonies should be drained of the small quantity of specie which continued in circulation. The pay of eight thousand four hundred regular troops, maintained by the mother country in North America, must bring much more coin into the country than the tax could carry out of it. IT was not an indifference towards the mother country. The colonies, far from being ungrateful, have demon fitted so zealous an attachment to her interests during the last war, that parliament had the equity to order con miserable sums to be remitted to them by way of restitution or indemnification. NoR, lastly, wa it ignorance of the obligations that subjects owe to government. Had not eventide colonies acknowledged themselves bound to contribute towards the payment of the national debt, though they had, perhaps, been the occasion of contrasting the greatest part of it; they knew very well that they were liable to contribute towards the expences of the navy, the maintenance of the African and American settlements; and to all the common expenditures relative to their own preservation and prosperity, as well as to that of the capitalists
B OO K IF the Americans refuse to lend their assistance to Eu , I.rope, it because what need only have been asked was,exaced from them; and because what was required of them as a matter of obedience, ought to have been raised by voluntary contribution. Their refusal was not the esse of caprice, but of jealousy of their rights, which have been confirmed in rome judicious writings, and more particularly in some eloquent letters, from which we shall borrow the principal fads we are going to state on a subjea which must be interesting to every nation on the globe. DURING almost two centuries that have passed since the English established themselves in North America, their country has been harassed by expensive and bloody wars; thrown into confusion by enterprizing and turbulent parliaments; and governed by a bold and corrupt ministry, ever ready to raise the power of the crown up on the ruin of all the privileges and rights of the people. But notwithstanding the influence of ambition, avarice, faction, and tyranny, the liberty of the colonies to raise their own taxes for the support of the public revenue hath on all hands been acknowledged and regarded; THIS privilege so natural and consonant to the fun mental principles of all rational society, was confirmed by a solemn compact. The colonies might appeal to their original charters, which authorize them to tax themselves freely and voluntarily. These a&s were, in truth, no thing more than agreements made with the crown; but even supposing that the prince had exceeded his authority by makingconceffions which certainly did not turn to his advantage, long possession tacitly 'owned and acknowledged by the silence of parliament, must constitute a legal prescription.,THE
THE American provinces have still more authentic B 0 0 K claim sto urge in their favour. They assert, that a sub je of England, in whatever hemisphere he resides, is Iron obliged to contribute to the expences of the Rate without his own consent, given either by himself, or his representatives. It is in the defence of this sacred right that the nation has so often spilt her blood, dethroned her kings, and either excited. or opposed numberless com motions. Will she chuse to dispute with two millions of her children, an advantage which has cost her so dear, and is, perhaps, the sole. foundation of her own inde sentence ? IT is urged against the colonies, that the Roman ca holies residing in England are excluded from the right of voting, and that their crates are subjected to a double tax. The colonists ask in reply, why the papists refuse to take the oath of allegiance required by the Rate? This conduct makes them suspected by government, and the jealousy it excites, authorises that government to treat them with rigour. Why not abjure a religion so con tray to the.free.conllitution of their country, so favour able to the inhuman claims of despotism, and to the at tempts of the crown against the rights of the people? Why that blind prepossession in favour of a church which is. an enemy to all others ? They deserve the penalties which the tate that tolerates them imposes upon subjects of in tolerant principles. But the inhabitants of the new world would be punished without having offended, if they were not able to become subjects without ceasing to be Americans. THESE faithful colonies have likewise been told with Lome confidence, that there are multitudes of subjects in England who are not represented ; because they have not the property required to intitle them to vote at an eletion,for
BOO For members of parliament. What ground have they to XVIIL ,XV.L expect any greater privileges than those enjoyed by the,fubje/as of the mother country ? The colonies, in an fwerto this, deny that they wish for superior-indulgences; they only want to (hare them in common with their brethren In Great Britain a person who enjoys freehold of forty shillings a year, is consulted in the framing of a tax-bill, and (hall not the man who possesses an immense tra of land in America have the same privilege ? No. That which is an exception to a law, a deviation from the general rule of the mother country ought not to become a fundamental point of constitution for the colonies Let the English who wish to deprive the provinces in America of the right of taxing themselves, suppose for a moment, that the house of commons, instead of being chosen by them, is an hereditary and established tribunal, or even arbi rarity appointed by the crown; if this body could levy taxes upon the whole nation without consulting the pub hic opinion, and the general inclinations of the people, would not the English lookupon themselves to be as much saves as any other nation ? However, even in-this case, five hundred men, surrounded by seven millions of their fellow fubjeas, might be kept within the bounds of mo deration, if not by a principle of equity, at least, by a well-grounded apprehension of the public resentment, which pursues the oppressors of their country even beyond the grave. But the case of Americans taxed by the great council of the mother country would be irremediable. At too great a distance to be heard, they would be op pressed with taxes without regard to their complaints. Even the tyranny exercised towards them would be var rifled over with the glorious appellation of patriotism. Under pretence of relieving the mother country, the co ionics would be over-burdened with impunity.,WITH
WITH this alarming prospect before them, they will B 0 0 K never submit to give up the right of taxing themselves. So I. long as they debate freely on the subject of public revel Whether nue, their interests will be attended to; or if their rights e scl'd should sometimes be violated, they will Coon obtain a re submit to dress of their grievances But their remonstrances will abe longer have any weight with government, when they are not supported by the right of granting or refusing money towards the exigencies of the slate. The same power which will have usurped the right of levying taxes, will easily usurp the distribution of them. As it dictates what proportion they 'hall raise, it will likewise dictate how that shall be laid out; and the funis apparently designed for their service, will be employed enslave them. Such has been the progression of empires in all ages. No so city ever preserved its liberty, after it had lost the privilege of voting in the confirmation, or establishment of laws, relative to the revenue. A nation must for ever be enslaved, in which no assembly or body of men remains, who have the power to defend its rights against the en encroachments of the state by which it is governed. THE provinces in English America have every reason imaginable to dread the loss of their independence. Even their confidence may betray them, and make them fall a prey to the designs of the mother country. They are in. habited by an infinite number of honest and upright people who have no suspicion that those who hold the reins of empire can be hurried away by unjust and tyrannical passions. They take it for granted that their country cherishes those sentiments of maternal tenderness which are Co consonant her true interests, and to the love and veneration which they entertain for her. To the unsuspecting credulity of there honest fubjeas, who cherish so agreeable a delusion, may be added the acquiescence of,those
B o o K those who think it not worth while to trouble their re xVi. pose on account of inconsiderable taxes. These indolent people do not perceive that the plan was, at first, to lull their vigilance asleep by imposing a moderate duty; that England only wanted to establish an example of submission upon which it might ground future pretensions ; that if the parliament has been able to raise one guinea, it can raise ten thousand ; and that there will be no more reason to limit this right, than there would be justice in acknowledging it at present. But the greatest injury to liberty arises from a let of ambitious men, who pursuing an in terest distinct from that of the public and of posterity, are wholly bent on increasing their credit, their rank, and their fates. The British ministry, from whom they have procured employments, or expect to receive them, finds them always ready to favour their odious projects, by the contagion of their luxury and their vices; by their artful insinuations, and the flexibility of their conduct.,LET all true patriots then firmly oppose the snares of prejudice, indolence, and seduction; nor let them despair of being various in a contest in which their virtue has engaged them. Attempts will, perhaps, be made to flake their fidelity, by the plausible proposal of allowing their representatives a feat in parliament, in order to re regulate, in conjunction with those of the mother country, the taxes to be raised by the nation at large. Such, in deed, is the extent, populousness, wealth, and importance of the colonies, that the legislature cannot govern them with wisdom and safety without availing itself of the advice and information of their representatives. But care should be taken not to authorise these deputies to decide in matters concerning the fortune and the contributions of their constituents. The expostulations of a few men would be easily overborne by the numerous re-representatives
representatives of the mother country; and the provinces, B 0 0 K,XVII. whose instruments they would be, would, in this con. fused jumble of interests and opinions, be laden with too heavy and too unequal a part of the common burthen. Let then the right of appointing, proportioning and raising the taxes continue to be exclusively vested in the provincial assemblies i who ought to be the more jealous of it at the present juncture, as the power of depriving them of it seems to have gained strength by the conquests made in the last war. FROM its late acquisitions, the mother country has derived the advantage of extending her fisheries, and strengthening her alliance with the savages. But as if this success passed for nothing in her estimation, she per fists in declaring, that this increase of territory has an 'swerved no end, and produced no effect but to secure the tranquillity of the colonies. The colonies, on the con tray, maintain, that their lands, on which their whole welfare depended, have decreased considerably in their value by this immense extent of territory; that their po pulsation being diminished, or, at leaPt, not increased, their country is the more exposed to invasions; and that the most northern provinces are rivalled by Canada, and the most Southern by Florida. The colonists, whojudge of future events by the history of the pass, even go so far as to say, that the military government established in the conquered provinces; the numerous troops main gained, and the forts erected there, may one day contribute to enslave countries, which have hitherto lPourifbed only upon the principles of liberty. GREAT BRITAIN possesses all the authority over her colonies that she ought to with for. She has a right to disannul any laws they shall make. The executive power is entirely lodged in the hands of her delegates: and in,all
BOOK all determinations of a civil nature, an appeal lies to XVIIL her tribunal. She regulates at discretion all commercial,connecions, which are allowed to be formed and pursued by the colonists. To strain an authority so wisely tempered would be to plunge a rising continent afresh into that state of confusion from which it had with difficulty emerged in the course of two centuries of incessant la your; and to reduce the men, who had laboured to clear the ground, to the necessity of taking up arms in the de fence of those sacred rights to which they are equally in titled by nature, and the laws of (society. Shall the English who arefo passionately fond of liberty, that they have sometimes produced it in regions widely remote in climate and interest, forget those sentiments, which their glory, their virtue, their natural feelings, and their fe purity conspire to render a perpetual obligation ? Shall they so far betray the rights they hold so dear, as to will to enslave their brethren and their children ? If, how ever, it should happen that the spirit of faction should devise so fatal a design, and should, in an hour of mad ness and intoxication, get it patronized by the mother country; what steps ought the colonies to take to save themselves from the state of the moR odious dependence ? How far BEFORE they turn their eyes on this political combustible colo uses ought on, they will recall to memory all the advantages they to carry owe to their country. England has always been their their opposition to barrier against the powerful nations of Europe: and fornication ed as a guide and moderator to watch over their preservation, and to heal those civil dissentions, which jealousy and rivalihip too frequently excite between neighbouring plantations in their rising state. It is to the influence of its excellent constitution that they owe the peace and prosperity they enjoy. While the colonies live under so,salutary
salutary and mild an administration, they will continue B O O K to make a rapid progress in the vast field of improvement Xv' that opens itself to their view, and which their industry will extend to the remotest deserts. LET the love of their country, however, be accompanied with a certain jealousy of their liberties; and let their rights be constantly examined into, cleared up, and discussed. Let them never fail to consider those as the best citizens, who are perpetually calling their attention to those points. This spirit of jealousy is proper in all free states; but it is particularly necessary in complicated governments, where liberty is blended with a certain degree of dependence, such as is required in a connection between countries separated by an immense ocean. This vigilance will be the surest guardian of the union which ought strongly to cement the mother country and her colonies. IF the ministry which is always composed of ambitious men, even n a free state, should attempt to increase the power of the crown, or the opulence of the mother country, at the expence of the colonies, the colonies ought to resist such an usurping power with unremitted spirit. When any measure of government meets with a warm opposition, it seldom fails to be resisted while grievances, which are suffered for want of courage to re dress them, are constantly succeeded by fresh instances of oppression. Nations, in general, are more apt to feel, than to reflect; and have no other ideas of the legality of a power than the very exercise of that power. Accustomed to obey without examination, they in general, be come familiarized to the hardships of government; and being ignorant of the origin and design of society, do not conceive the idea of setting bounds, to authority. In those states especially, where the principles of legislator IV. C c tion
B O0 K tion are confounded with those of religion, as one extrava.,m .gant opinion opens door for the reception of a thousand among thole who have been once deceived; so the first encroachments of government pave the way for all the rest. He who believes the most, believes the least and he Gho can perform the most, performs the leat: and to this double mistake in regard hitherto belief or power, it is owing that all the absurdities and ill.pra&cices in religion and politics have been introduced into the world, in order to oppress the human species. The spirit of to legation and of liberty, which has hitherto prevailed in the English colonies, has happily preserved them from failing into this extreme of folly and misery. They have too high a sense of the dignity of human nature not to refift:oppreffion, though at the hazard of their livest people so intelligent do not want to be told that def operate resolutions and violent measures cannot be juri fiable, till they have in vain tried every possible method of reconciliation. But at the same time, they know that if they are reduced to the necessity of chusing slave. ry or war, and taking arms in defence of their liberty, they ought not to tarnish so glorious a cause with all the horrors and cruelties attendant on sedition: and tho' re solved not to Sheath the sword till they have recovered their rights; that they should make no other use of their vic tory than to procure the re-establishment of their original state of legal independence. LET us, however, take care not to confound the re distance which the English colonies ought to make to their mother country, with the fury of a people excited to revolt against their sovereign by a long series of excessive oppression. When the slaves of an arbitrary mo march have once broken their chain, and submitted their fate to the decision of the sword, they are obliged to,mafface
massacre the tyrant, to exterminate his whole race, and B O O K,XVIII. to change the form of that government, under which they , have suffered for many ages. If they venture not thus far, they will sooner or later be punished for having been courageous only by halves. The blow will be retorted upon them with greater force than ever; and the affected clemency of their tyrants will only prove a new flare, in which they will be caught and entangled without hope of deliverance. It is the misfortune of factions in an ab solute government, that neither prince nor people set any bounds to their resentment; because they know none in the exercise of their power. But a constitution qualified like that of the English colonies, carries in its principles and the limitation of its power, a remedy and preservative against the evils of anarchy. When the mother country has removed their complaints by reinstating them in their former situation, they ought to proceed no further: be cause such a situation is the happiest that a wise people have a right to aspire to. THEY could not embrace a plan of absolute depends whether once, without breaking through the ties of religion, oaths, twould be,of ure to laws, language, relation, interest, trade and habit which the colo unite them together tinder the mild authority of the mo ses to,break thro' ther country. Is it to be imagined that such an avulsion the ties would not asses the heart, the vitals, and even the life ofw'icl',unite them the colonies? If they should flop fort of the violence octo the civil wars, would they easily be brought to agree upon a mother-country. new form of government ? If each settlement composed a difina slate, what divisions would ensue! We may judge of the animosities that would arise from their fe marathon by the fate of all communities which nature has made to border on each other. But could it be supposed that so many settlements where a diversity of laws, different degrees of opulence, and variety of pofflflions,C c 2 would
B O O K would sow the latent feeds of an opposition of interests were desirous of forming a confederacy; how would they adjust the rank which each would aspire to hold, and the influence it ought to have in proportion to the risque it in cursed, and the forces it supplied ? Would not the same spirit of jealousy and a thousand other passions, which in a short time divided the wise fates of Greece, raise discord between a multitude of colonies associated rather by *the transient and brittle ties of passion and resentment, than by the sober principles of a natural and lasting com nation ? All these considerations seem to demonstrate, that an eternal reparation from the mother country would prove a very great misfortune to the English colonies. .Whether WVE will go one shep further, and affirm that were it in hould be the power of the European nations who have possessions in proper for the Euro the new world to effect this great revolution, it is not pean nati their interest to wish it. This will, perhaps, be thought ons to en devour to a paradox by those powers, who see their colonies per reader the equally threatened with an invasion from their neigh Englisco-p ionics in hours. They; doubtless, imagine that if the power of dependent the English in America were lt-feed, they should peace of the mo ther count ably enjoy their acquisitions which frequently excite their try? envy, and invite them to hostilities. It cannot be denied that their influence in these distant regions arises from the extent or populousness of their northern provinces : which enable them always to attack with advantage the islands and continental possessions of other nations, to conquer their territories, or ruin their trade. But, after all, this crown has interests in other parts of the globe which may counter-act their progress in America, restrain or retard their enterprizes, and frustrate their conduces by the restitution they will be obliged to make. WHEN the ties subsisting between old and new Britain are once broken, the northern colonies will have moreover
power when single, than when united with the mother B 0 0 Xviii country. 'This great continent, freed from all connexions with Europe, will have the full command of all its motions. It will then become an important, as wells an easy undertaking to them, to invade those territories, whose riches will make amends for the scantiness of their productions. Bey the independent nature of its situation it will be enabled to get every thing in readiness for an invasion, before any account arrives in Europe. This nation-will carry on their military operations with the spirit peculiar to new societies. They may make choice of their enemies, and conquer where and when they please. Their attacks will always be made upon such comfits as are liable to be taken by surprise, and upon those seas that are least guarded by foreign powers: who will find the countries they wished to defend conquered before any succours can arrive. It will be impossible to recover them by treaty, without making great concessions, or, when recovered for a time, to prevent their falling again under the same yoke. The colonies belonging to our absolute monarchies, will, perhaps, be inclined to meet a master with open arms, who cannot propose harder terms than their own government imposes; or after the example of the English colonies, will break the chain that rivets them so ignominiously to Europe. LET no motive by any means prevail upon the nations who are rivals to England, either by insinuations, or by clandestine helps, to hasten a revolution, which would only deliver them from a neighbouring enemy, by giving them a much more formidable one at a distance. Why accelerate an event which mush one 'day naturally take place from the unavoidable concurrence of so many others ? For it would be contrary to the nature of things, if the province, subject to a presiding nation, hould continues c 3 under
B 0 0 K under its dominion, when equal to it in riches, and the xvIH. . . number of inhabitants. Or, indeed, who can tell whether this disunion may not happen sooner ? Is it not like ly that the distrust and hatred which has of late taken place of that regard and attachment which the provinces formerly felt for the parent country, may bring on a fe marathon ? Thus every thing conspires to produce this great disruption, the era of which it is impossible to know. Every thing tends to this point: the progress of good in the new hemisphere, and the progress of evil in the old alas ! the sudden and rapid decline in our manners and our powers, the crimes of princes, and the sufferings of the people, will make this fatal catastrophe, which is to divide one part of the globe from the other, uni versal. The foundations of our tottering empires are sapped; materials are hourly collecting and preparing for their destruction, composed of the ruins of our laws, the ferment of contending opinions, and the subversion of our rights, which were the foundation of our courage; the luxury of our courts, and the miseries of the country the lasting animosity between indolent men whoen- gross all the wealth, and vigorous and even virtuous men, who have nothing to lose but their lives. In proportion as our people are weakened and resign themselves to each other's dominion, population and agriculture will furies in America: the arts, transplanted by our means, will make a rapid progress : and that country riling out of no thing, will be fired with the ambition of appearing with glory in its turn on the faces the globe, and in the his tory of the world. 0 posterity ! ye, peradventure, will be more happy than your unfortunate and contemptible dances ors. May this lais wish be accomplished, and con sole the present expiring race with the hopes that a better,will
will succeed it ! But leaving future times to themselves, B '0 ,:1 let us take a view of the result of three memorable ages., Having seen in the beginning of this work the slate of misery and ignorance in which Europe was involved in the infancy of America; let us examine to what fate the conquest of the new world has led and invited the con queries on the other side of the globe. This was the de sign of a book undertaken with the hopes of being use ful: if the end is answered, the author will have discharged his duty to the age he lives in, and to society.,EKND OF THE EIGHTEENTH BOOK.,Cc 4 BOOK
BOOK XIX.,BOOK XIX. IN the first part of this work we began by endeavour ing to describe the state of commerce in Europe before the discovery of the East and Weft-Indies. We then proceeded to trace the flow, difficult and tyrannical pro griefs of the settlements formed in those distant regions. The work will be completed, if we can now determine the influence which the connexions of the new world have had over the morals, government, arts and opinions of the old. Let us begin with religion. Religion. RELIGION in man is the effect of a sense of his misfortunes, and of the fear of invisible powers. MOST legislators have availed themselves of this disposition to govern the people, and still more to enslave them. Some of them have asserted that they held the rights of command from heaven itself, and it is thus that theocracy has been established. IF the religion of the Jews has had a more sublime origin, it has not been totally exempt from the inconveniences which the ambition of the priest necessarily introduces in a theocratic government-christianity succeeded the Jewish institution. The subjection of a republic, that was mistress of the world, to a set of horrid tyrants; the dreadful miseries, which,the
the luxury of the court and the maintenance of the ar B 0 0 K mies scattered throughout this vast empire of the Nero; XIx the successive irruptions of the barbarians, who dismembered this great body; the lots of the provinces which either revolted, or were invaded: all there natural evils had already prepared the minds of men for a new religion and the revolutions of politics would necessarily have induced an innovation in the form of worship. In paganism, now grown old, nothing was to be seen but the fables to which it owed its origin, the folly or the vices of its gods, the avarice of its priests, and the in fame and irregularities of the kings who supported them. Then the people finding none but their tyrants upon earth, began to look up to heaven for protection. CHRISTIANITY came to comfort them, and to teach them to sussex with patience. While the oppressions and licentiousness of the throne were tapping the foundations of paganism, together with those of the empire, the sub jets, who had been oppressed and spoiled, and who had embraced the new doctrines, were completing this ruin by the examples they gave of those virtues which always accompany the zeal of new-made proselytes. But a re legion that arose in the midst of public calamity must necessarily give its preachers a considerable influence.over the unfortunate persons who took refuge in it. Thus the power of the clergy commenced at the very origin of the gospel. FROM the remains of pagan superstitions and philosophic seqs,- a code of rites and tenets was formed, which the simplicity of the primitive christians falsified with real and affecting piety; but which at the same time left the feeds of debates and controversies, from whence arose a variety of passions disguised under and dignified with the name of zeal. These dissentions produced,schools,
B Schools, doors, a tribunal, and an hierarchy. The,.establishment of christianity had been begun by a set of fishermen; who knew nothing but the gospel; it was completed by bishops who formed the church. After this it gained ground by degrees, till at length it became known to the emperors. Some of these tolerated christianity either from motives of contempt or humanity; others persecuted it. Persecution hastened its progress, to which toleration had paved the way. Silence and pro friction, clemency and rigour were all equally advantageous to it. The sense of freedom so natural to the human mind, induced many persons to embrace it in its in fancy, as. it has made others reset it since it has been established. This spirit of independence less attracted by truth than by novelty, would necessarily have brought in a multitude of followers-of all ranks, if even the characters it was stamped with had not been fit to inspire ve. negation and respect. CONSTANTINE, instead of uniting the crown to the priesthood when he was converted to christianity, as they were joined in the persons-of the pagan emperors, granted to the clergy such a share of wealth and so much authority and supplied them with so many means of future ag aggrandizement, that these blind concessions produced an ecclesiastical despotism, which in process of time became intolerable. THIS despotism was carried to its highest pitch, when a part of Europe shook off the yoke. A monk withdrew from it almost all Germany; a priest one half of France; and a king one half of England for the fake of a woman. In other states, many men of bold minds gave up the tenets of christianity, and the most virtuous among them, preserved only a kind of attachment to the purity of its morals, though they conformed externally to what was,cn-
enjoined them by the laws of the society in which they B''O. IC lived. X'X. THIS mode of thinking will never become general and popular, unless the magistrate, who should be the proper inspector of every thing that is of such public notoriety as to influence the police, should put his original rights in force. Doctrines either for theory or practice are for this reason subject to the influence of government,; whose power, as well as duty, is however confined to the re firing of every thing that is injurious to the happiness of the community, and to the permitting of every thing that does not disturb the peace and union of mankind. ALL states ought to have nearly the same moral code of religion, and leave the rest, not to be disputed be tween men, because that ought to be prevented whenever public tranquillity is disturbed by it, but to the impulse of every man's conscience, thus allowing divines as well as philosophers an entire freedom of thinking. This un limited toleration, with regard to all tenets and opinions that should not affect the moral code of nations, would' be the only method of preventing or tapping the foundations of that power, whether spiritual or temporal, which the clergy assume; and which, in process of time, make them. become a formidable body to the fate; this is the. only way to extinguish insensibly the enthusiasm of the clergy, and the fanaticism of the people. IT is partly to the discovery of the new world that we shall owe that religious toleration which ought to be, and certainly will be introduced in the old. Persecution would only hasten the downfall of the religions that are now established. Industry and understanding have now prevailed among the nations, and gained an influence that must restore a certain equilibrium in the moral and civil order of society: the human mind is undeceived,with
B O OK with regard to its former superstition. If We do not avail XIX. ourselves of this instant to re-establish the empire of rea-son, itmuft necessarily be given up to fresh suspicions. EVERY thing has concurred for these two centuries past to exhaust that fury of zeal that devoured the earth. The depredations of the Spaniards throughout America, have shewn the world to what excess fanaticism may be carried. In establishing their religion by fire and sword through ravaged and depopulated countries, they have made it odious in Europe and their cruelties have separated a greater number of catholics from the church of Rome, than they have made christians among the In diana. The concourse of persons of all seAs in North America, has necessarily spread the spirit of toleration at a distance, and relieved our climates from religious wars. The sending of missionaries has delivered us from those turbulent men, who might have inflamed our country, and who are gone to carry the firebrands and swords of the gospel beyond the seas. Navigation and long voyages have insensibly detached a great number of the people from the extravagant ideas of superstition. The variety of religious worships, and the difference of nations, has accustomed the most vulgar minds to a fort of indifference for the object that had the greatest in fluence over their imaginations. The carrying on of trade between persons of the mos opposite frets, has lessened the religious hatred that was the cause of their divisions. It has been found that morality and integrity are not inconsistent with any opinions whatever, and that irregularity of manners and avarice are equally prevalent every where; and hence it has been concluded that the manners of men have been regulated by the variety of climate and of government, and hy social and national interest.,SINce
SINCE the intercourse has been established between the B 0 0 K,XIX. two hemispheres of this world, our thoughts have been less engaged about that other world, which was the hope of the few, and the torment of the many. The diver city and multiplicity of objects that industry hath pre seated to the mind and to the senses, has divided the at attachments of men, and weakened the power of every sentiment. Characters have been softened, and thefpirit of fanaticism must necessarily have been extinguished as well as that of chivalry, and with them all those striking extravagancies that have prevailed among people that were indolent and unemployed. The same causes that have produced this revolution of manners, have exerted their influence on governments with still greater rapidity SOCIETY naturally results from population, and go-governs government is a part bs the social state. From considering the few wants that men have, in proportion to the re sources that nature affords them; the little affiance and happiness they find in the civil state, in comparison of the pains and evils they accumulate in it; their inftina for independence and liberty, common to them with all other living beings; together with a number of reasons drawn from their natural confusion: from considering all there things, it has been doubted, whether sociability was so natural to mankind as it has generally been thought to be. BUT on the other hand, the helplessness and duration of, man's infancy; the nakedness of his body not covered either with hair or feathers; the tendency of his mind to perfection, the necessary consequence of the length of his life; maternal fondness which is increased by cares and fatigues, which after it has carried the child in the womb for nine months, suckles it and bears it in its arms for,whole
o 0 K whole years; the reciprocal attachment arising from this,. habit between two beings that relieve and caress each other; the numerous marks of intercourse in an organization that adds to the accents of the voice, common to so many animals, the language of the fingers and of gestures that are peculiar-to the human race; natural events which in a hundred different ways may bring to gather, or re-unite wandering and free individuals; ac cents and unforeseen wants which oblige them to meet for the purposes of hunting, filling, or even of defence; in a word, the example of so many creatures that live in herds, such as amphibious animals and sea monsters, flights of cranes and other birds, even infers that are found in columns and in swarms: all thee salts and rea doings seem to prove, that man by his nature tends to sociability, and that he reaches that end so much the more speedily, as he cannot populate much under the torrid zone, without being collected into wandering or sedentary tribes, nor spread himself much under the other zones, without associating with his fellow-creatures, for the prey and the spoils which the wants of food and clothing require.,FROxM the necessity of association, arises that of establishing laws relative to the social state: that is to say, of forming by a combination of all common and particular instincts, one general combination, that shall maintain the collective body and the majority of individuals. For if nature directs man to his fellow creature, it is undoubt ely by a consequence of that universal attraction, which tends to the reproduction and preservation of the species. All the propensities which man brings with him into so city, and all the impressions he receives in it, ought to be subordinate to this sirs impulse. To live and to pro palate, being the destination of every living species, it,fiould
should seem that sociability, if it be one of the first prin B o 0 K cipher of man, should concur in assisting this double end X.L. 4. of nature; and that indiana which leads him to the so coal state, should necessarily direct all moral and political laws, so as that they should be more durable, and con tribute more to the happiness of the majority of man kind. Nevertheless, if we consider merely the effet, we should think that the principle or supreme law of all so city has been secure tie reigning pcwrr. From whence can arise this singular contrast between the end and the means, between the laws of nature and those of politics? The following is the only answer that occurs to this question. It is chance that first lays the plan of govern ments, and reason that improves them. Upon this prin ciple, let us examine the nature of the governments that have brought Europe to its present state of policy. ALL the foundations of a society existing are lost by some catastrophe, or natural revolution. In all parts we see men driven away by subterraneous fires, or by war.; by inundations, or by devouring infers; by dearth, or by famine ; and joining again in some uninhabited corner of the earth, or dispersing and spreading themselves in places already peopled. Police always begins by plunder, and order arises from anarchy. THE Hebrews, who were forced by the plagues of Egypt to remove into Arabia Petrie, were, at least, forty years in forming themselves into a body of troops, before they proceeded to ravage Palestine, in order to establish themselves there as a nation. THE states of Greece were founded by plunderers, who destroyed some monsters, and a great number of men in order to become kings. RoME, it is said, was formed from the remaining people escaped from the flames of Troy, or was nothing,more
B o o More than a set of banditti from Greece and Italy: but, .from this scum of the human race, arose a generations heroes. WAR, which, of the great nations of Europe, had only formed the Roman empire, made there very Romans who were so numerous become barbarians again. As the dispositions and manners of the conquering people are almost always impressed upon the conquered, those who had been enlightened with the knowledge of Rome in its learned state, now sank again into the blindness of stupid and ferocious Scythians During ages of ignorance when superior strength always gave the law, and chance or hunger had opened the regions of the south to the forces of the north, the continual succession of various emigrations 'prevented the laws from being fettled in any place. As a multitude of small nations had destroyed a large one, many chiefs or tyrants divided each vast mo narcby into several tenures. The people, who gained nothing by the government of one, or of several men, were always oppressed and trampled upon in this division of feudal anarchy. Little wars were continually kept up between neighbouring towns, instead of these great wars that now prevail between nations. THIs continual ferment, however, induced all nations to establish themselves in a kind of form, or consistence. Kings were desirous of raising themselves upon the ruins of those men, or of those powerful bodies, by whom the commotions were kept up; and to effect this, they had recourse to the assistance of the people. They were civilized polished, and more rational laws were given them than they had hitherto had. Slavery had depressed their natural vigour, and property restored it again; and com mere which prevailed after the discovery of the new,world,
world, increased all their powers, by exciting universal 0 0 K,XIX. emulation. To there general agitations another was added. The monarchs could not have increased their own power, with out lessening that of the clergy, and without encouraging or preparing the way for the discredit of religious opinions All innovators who ventured to attack the church, were supported by the throne. From that time, the human understanding was strengthened by exerting itself against the phantoms of imagination, and recovering the path of nature and of reason, discovered the true prin ciple of government. Luther and Columbus appeared; the whole universe trembled, and all Europe was in com motion: but this storm cleared up its horizon for ages to come. One of these persons awakened the understand kings of all men, the other, excited their activity. Since they have opened all the paths of industry and freedom, most of the European nations labour with some success in correcting or improving legislation, upon which the fe licht of mankind depends. NEVERTHELESS this enlightened spirit has not yet reached the Turks. They have ever preserved' a faithful attachment to the maxims of Asiatic despotism. The scimitar, at Constantinople, is still the interpreter of the Coran. Though the Grand Signior may not be seen coming in and going out of the Seraglio, like the tyrant of Morocco, with a bloody head in his hand, yet a nu serous body of satellites is engaged in the atchievement of there horrid murders. The people massacred by their ruler, assassinate the executioner in their turn; but satis fled with this temporary vengeance, they think not of providing for their safety in future, or for the happiness of their posterity. It is too much trouble for orientalis to endeavour to assure the public safety by laws, which VOL. IV. D d t
B 0 0 g it is a laborious talk to form, to fettle, and to preserve. XIX. X1 . If their tyrants carry their oppressions or cruelties too far,,the head of the vizir is demanded, that of the despot is struck off, and thus all is set to rights. Thejaniffaries make use of no other remonstrance. Even the most powerful men in the kingdom are strangers to the sirs idea of the rights of nations. As personal safety in Turkey belongs only to people of a mean and abject con edition, the chief families pride themselves in the very danger they are exposed to from the government. A Bashaw will tell you, that such a man as he is, is not destined, like an obscure person, to finish his days quiet ly in his bed. One may frequently see widows, whose husbands have been jus strangled, exulting that they have been destroyed in a manner suitable to their rank. THE Ruffians and the Danes do not entertain the same prejudices, though they are subject to a power equally arbitrary ; because these nations have the advantage of a more tolerable administration, and of some written laws. They can venture to think, or even to say that their go government is limited, but they have never been able to per fade any sensible man that it was. While the sovereign makes and annuls the laws, extends or restrains them, and permits or suspends the execution of them at pleasure; while the indulgence of his passions is the only rule of his conduce; while he is the only, the central being to whom every thing tends; while nothing is either right or wrong but what he makes so-while his caprice is the law, and his favour the standard of public esteem; if this is not despotism, what other kind of government can it possibly be? Is such a slate of degradation, what are men ? They hardly dare turn their constrained looks up to the skies. They want both knowledge to discern their chains, inspirit
spirit to feel the shame of them. The powers of their B O 0 K,XIX. minds extinguished by the oppressions of slavery, have not a sufficient force to seize upon the rights inseparable from their existence. It may be a matter of doubt whether these saves are not as culpable as their tyrants ; and whether the spirit of liberty has more reason to complain of the insolence of those who infringe upon her rights, than of the imbecility of others, who know not how to de send them. YET many people will assert that the most happy form of government would be that of a just and enlightened despotic prince. The absurdity of this is evident; for it might easily happen that the will of this absolute monarch might be in direct opposition to the will of his subjects. In that case, notwithstanding all his justice and all his abilities, he would be in the wrong to deprive them of their rights, even though it were for their own benefit. No man whatsoever, let him be who he will, is entitled to treat his fellow-creatures like so many bears. Beasts may be compelled to leave a bad pasture, and driven into a richer; but the same kind of compulsion used with a set of men would be an as of tyranny. If they should say, that they are very well where they are, or even if they should agree in saying that their situation is a bad one, but that it is their will and pleasure to flay in it, we may endeavour to teach them, to undeceive them, and to bring them to founder notions by the means of persuasion, but never by those of compulsion. The best of princes, who should even have done good, against the general con sent of his people, would be culpable, if it were only .because he had gone beyond his right. He would be cul able not only for the time, but even with regard to pol verity: for though he may bejuft and enlightened, yet his successor without inheriting either his abilities or his,D d 2 virtues,
B 0 0 K virtues, will certainly inherit his authority, of which the XTx.,nation will become the victim. Let not, therefore, these pretended masters of the people be allowed even to do good against the general consent. Let it be considered that the condition of there rulers is not in the least differ. went from that of the cacique, who being asked whether he had any slaves, answered; Slaves ? I know bDt one save in al my djirie, and that is myself. BETWEEN Russia and Denmark, Sweden is situated. Let us examine the history of its constitution, and en devour if possible to find out the nature of it. NATIONS that are poor are almost necessarily warlike; because their very poverty, the burthen of which is per equally grievous to them, inspires them sooner or later with a desire of getting rid of it; and this desire, in pro cess of time, becomes the general spirit of the nation, and the spring of the government. IT only requires a succession of sovereigns fortunate in war, to change suddenly the government of such a country from the fate of a mild monarchy, to that of the most absolute despotism. The monarch proud of his tri umphs thinks every thing may be allowed him, begins to acknowledge no law but his will; and his soldiers whom he hath led so often to viAory, being ready to serve himin aH things and against all men, become by their attachment to the prince the terror of their fellow-citizens. The people, on the other hand, will not venture to refuse chains that are offered to them by him, who, to the au. authority of his rank joins that which he holds from their admiration and gratitude the yoke imposed by the monarch who has conquered the enemies of the state, is certainly burthensome; but the fubjeas dare not shake it off. It even grows heavier under successors who have not the same claim to their in-indulgence.
dulgence. Whenever any considerable reverse of fortune B 0 0 K takes place, the despot will be left to the mercy of his t Xx. people. Then, the people irritated by their long sufferings seldom fail to avail themselves of the opportunity of recovering their rights. But as they have neither views nor plans, they change instantaneously from a state of slavery to that of anarchy. In the midi of this gene rat tumult one exclamation only is heard, and that is li betty. But as they know not how to secure to themselves this inestimable benefit; the nation becomes immediately divided into various factions, which are guided by differ went interests. IF there be one among these factions, that despairs prevailing over the rest, that faction separates itself unmindful of the general good: and being more anxious to prejudice its rivals than to serve its country, it takes the part of the sovereign. From that moment there are but two parties in the state, distinguished by two different names, which, whatever they be, never mean any thing more than roy alifis and antiroyalifis. This is the period of great com motions and conspiracies. THE neighbouring powers then as the same part they have ever used at all times and in all countries upon similar occasions. They foment jealousies between the people and their prince; they suggest to the subjects every possible method of debasing, degrading and annihilating the sovereignty they corrupt even thole who are nearest the throne; they occasion lome administration to be adopted prejudicial both to the whole body of the nation, which they impoverish under pretence of exerting themselves for their liberty ; and injurious to the sovereign, whose prerogative they reduce to nothing. THEN the monarch meets with as many authorities opposed to his, as there are ranks in the state. Then,,Dd 3 his
B O O His will is nothing without their concurrence. Their . 'he mull call meetings, propose and debate upon things,of the leafs importance. Then, tutors are given to him as to an ignorant scholar; and he .may be assured that those tutors are men very ill-disposed towards him. BUT what is then the state of the nation ? The neigh pouring powers have now, by their influence, thrown every thing into confusion ; they have overturned the state, or reduced all the members of it, by bribery or in tribes. There is now but one party in the kingdom, and that is the party of the stranger. The members of the nations are all pretenders. Attachment to the king is an hypocrisy, and aversion for monarchy another. They are two different marks of ambition and avarice. The whole nation is now a collection of infamous and venal men. IT is not difficult to conceive what muff happen after this. The foreign powers that had corrupted the nation must be deceived in their expectations. They did not perceive that they carried matters too far; that, perhaps, they might even have been acting in a manner very different from that which a deeper policy would have suggested that they were destroying the power of the na tion, while their efforts only kept that of the sovereign in subjection; that this power of the monarch, which might one day exert itself with all its force, would meet with no resistance capable of checking it; and that this unexpected effect might be brought about in an instant, and by one man. THAT infant is come; that man has appeared: and all there base creatures of adverse powers prostrated themselves before him. He told there men, who thought themselves all powerful, that they were no thing. He told them, I am your master; and they declared unanimously that he was. He told them: these,are
are the conditions to which I would have you submit 0 O O and they answered, we agree to them. Scarce one dissenting voice was heard amongst them. It is impossible for any man to know what will be the consequence of this revolution. If the master will avail himself of the circumstances, Sweden will not have beer governed by a more absolute monarch. If he is prudent; if he under sands that an unlimited sovereign can have no subjects, because he can have no persons under him possessed of property; and that authority can only be exerted over those who have some kind of property; the nation may, perhaps, recover its original character. Whatever may be his designs or his inclinations, Sweden cannot possibly be more unhappy than she was before. POLAND, which has none but slaves within, and, therefore, deserves to meet with none but opprefforsfrom without; still preserves, however, the shadow and the name of liberty. This kingdom is still, at present, no better than all the European fates were ten centuries ago, subjea to an aristocracy, which elect a king, in order to make him subservient to their will. Each nobleman, by virtue of his feudal tenure, which he preserves with his sword, as his ancestors acquired it, holds a personal and hereditary authority over his vassals. The feudal government prevails there in all the force of its primitive institution. It is an empire composed of as many states as there are lands. All the laws are fettled there, and all resolutions taken not by the majority, but by the unanimity of the suffrages. Upon false notions of right and perfection, it has been supposed that a law was just only as it was adopted with unanimous content; because it has undoubtedly been thought, that what was right would both be perceived and put in practice by all ; two things that are impossible in a national assembly. But,D d 5 can
BOOK can we even ascribe such pure intentions to a set of ty- XIX . rants? For this constitution, which boasts the title of republic, and profanes it, is no more than a league oi petty despots against the people. There, every one has power to prevent, and no one has power to at. there, the will of each individual may be in opposition to the general wishes; and there only, a fool, a wicked man, and a madman is sure to prevail over a whole nation. AND, indeed, this government has never prospered; and Poland, that enjoys the privilege of electing its kings merely from thejealoufy of its nobles, has been only in debated to the jealousy of its neighbours, for not having an. hereditary despot in the family of a foreign con queror. IT was reserved to our days, to see this fate torn in pieces by three rival powers, which have appropriated to themselves those of its provinces that lay most convenient for them. May this crime of ambition turn out to the advantage of mankind; and by a glorious action of be benevolence, may the usurpers break the chains of the most laborious part of their new people ! Their subjects will be more faithful, by being more free; and being no longer slaves, will become men. IN a monarchy, all the forces, and the wills of all, are at the disposal of one single man; in the government of Germany, each member is a body. This is, perhaps, the nation that resembles most what it formerly was. The ancient Germans, divided into colonies by immense so rests, had no occasion for a very refined legislation. But in proportion as their descendents have multiplied and come nearer each other, art has kept up in this country what nature had established; the reparation of the people and their political union. The small fates that compose this confederate republic, preserve the stamp of the first,fa.
families. Each particular government is not always pa-B o OK. eternal, or the fathers of the nations are not always mild . and humane. But still reason and liberty, with which all the chiefs are united, softens the severity of their dispositions and the rigor of their authority: a prince in Germany cannot be a tyrant with the same impunity as in large monarchies. THE Germans, who are rather warriors, than a war like people, because they are rather proficient in the art of wars than added to it from inclination, have been conquered but once; and it was Charlemagne who con queried, but could not reduce them to subjection. They obeyed the man, who by talents superior to the age he lived in, had subdued and enlightened its barbarism but they shook off the yoke of his successors. Nevertheless they preserved the title of emperor to their chief; but it was merely a name, since the real power resided almost entirely in the barons that poised the lands. The people who unfortunately have always been every where enslaved, spoiled, kept in micfry by ignorance, and in ignorance by misery, had not the leaf (hare in the ad vantages of the legislation. From this destruction of social equilibrium, which does not tend to reduce all con editions and fortunes to the same standard, but to the more extensive division of riches, the feudal government was formed, the characteristic of which is anarchy. Each nobleman lived in a total independence, and each people under the most absolute tyranny. This was the unavoidable consequence of a government, where the crown was elective. In those states where it was hereditary, the people had, at least, a bulwark and a permanent refuge against oppression. The regal authority could not extend itself, without alleviating for some time the fate of the vassals, by diminishing the power of the nobles.,BUT
B 0 O K BUT in Germany, where-the nobles take advantage of -. ,each interregnum to invade or restrain the rights of the imperial power, the government could not but degenerate. Strength decided every thing between those who wore the sword. Lands and men were only the instruments, or the subjects of war between the proprietors. Crimes were the support of injustice. Rapine, murder, and con. migrations not only became coronary, but even lawful. Superstition, which had consecrated tyranny, was obliged to put a flop-to it. The church, which furnished an asylum to all the plunderers, fettled a truce between them. :Recourse was had to the protection of the faints, to-avoid the fury of the nobles. The ashes of the dead were only sufficient to flop the ferociousness of-these peo. pie; fo'frightful is death, even to men of cruel and savage dispositions. WHEN the minds of men fill in astate of commotion, were disposed to become calm through fear; policy, which avails itself equally of reason and the passions, of igno. rance and understanding, in ruling over mankind, at tempted to throw the government into a better form. On the one hand, several inhabitants in the countries were enfranchised; and on the other, exemptions were granted in favour of the cities. There were a number of men in all parts who-enjoyed freedom. The emperors, whoso secure their election even among ignorant and ferocious princes, were obliged to disclose some abilities and some virtues, prepared the way for the reformation of the le violation. MAXIMILIAN took advantage of all the feeds of hap pines that were sown in his age by time and by the events. He demolished the anarchy of the great. In France and Spain, they had been made subject to regal authority in Germany, the emperors made them subjeA,to
to the laws. Under pretence of the public tranquillity, B 0 0 K every prince may be brought to justice. 'It is true, that. XX. these laws established among lions do not save the lambs: and the people are still at the mercy of their rulers, who are only bound one towards another. But as :publicans quality cannot be violated, nor war commenced, with out being amenable to a tribunal that's always open, and supported by all the forces of the empire, the people-are less exposed to those sudden irruptions, and unforeseen hostilities, which threatening the property of the sovereigns continually endangered the lives and'fafety of the fubjeas. War, which formerly constituted right, is now subjea to conditions that moderate its fury. The cries of humanity are heard even in the midst of carnage. It is to Germany that Europe owes the improvement of the legislation in all states; regularity and proceedings even in the revenge of nations; a certain equity even in the abuse of power; moderation in the midst of viaory; a check to the ambition of all potentates; in short, fresh obstacles to war, and fresh encouragements to peace. THIS happy constitution of the German empire, has improved with the progress of reason since the reign of Maximilian. Nevertheless the Germans themselves com plain, that although they form a national body, distinguished by the same name, speaking the same language, living under the same chief, enjoying the same privileges, and connected by the same interests, yet their empire has not the advantage of that tranquillity, that power and consideration it ought to have. THE causes of this misfortune are obvious. The first, is the obscurity of the laws. The writings upon the jus publique of Germany are numberless; and there are but few Germans who are versed in the constitution of-their country. All the members of the empire now fend,their
B0 0 K their representatives to the-national assembly, whereas , they formerly fat there themselves. The military turn which is become universal, has precluded all application to business, every generous sentiment of patriotism, and all attachment to fellow-citizens. There is not one of the princes who has not fettled his court too magnificently for his income, and who does not authorise the most fla grant oppressions to support this ridiculous pomp. In Short, nothing contributes more to the decay of the em pire, than the inordinate aggrandizement of some of its members. The sovereigns become too powerful, separate their private interests from the general good. This re reciprocal disunion among the Rates, is the reason, that in dangers that are common to all, each province is left to shift for itself. It is obliged to bend to the strongest, who ever he may be; and thus the Germanic constitution de generates insensibly into slavery or tyranny. ENGLAND owes its national genius to its geographical petition, and its government to its national character. It was invited by nature to the sea, to commerce, and to liberty. This idol of men of firing minds, which ren ders them ferocious in a savage fate, and proud in a ci visited one, this spirit of .liberty always reigned in the breasts of the English, even when they were ignorant of its rights and advantages this was the nation that first discovered the injustice and insignificancy of ecclesiastical power, the limits of regal authority, and the abuses of the feudal government. This was the nation that was the first to revolt and throw off this triple load of oppression. Until the reign of Hen ry the eighth, they had fought only for the choice of their tyrants ; but at length, in chusing them, they paved the way for abolishing, punishing, or expelling them.,Na'vEa-
NEVERTHELESS the kings of England thought themselves B O O K,XIX., absolute, because all those of the rest of Europe were so The title of monarch deceived James the first; he annexed unlimited authority to it. He discovered this idea with so much frankness, such blind simplicity, that he did not even distrust his own pretensions, sufficiently, to induce him to support them previously by force. His courtiers and his clergy encouraged him in this flattering illusion, which he persevered in to the end. He died full of self estimation, and despised by his people; who knew the weakness ofthat monarch, and valued their own strength. THE English, to put an end to the spirit of revenge and mistrust, which would have been perpetuated between the crown and the people after the tragical end of Charles the fires, chose, from a foreign race, a prince who was at length obliged to accept of that social com pac, which all hereditary kings asses to be ignorant of. William tht third received the crown with conditions, and contented himself with an authority established upon the same basis as the rights of the people under the reigns of the Stuartss, power and liberty had been in perpetual contest, between the prerogatives of the crown and the privileges of the people. Since a parliamentary or national title is become the sole right of 'kings, whatever faction disturbs the people, the force of the constitution prevails always in their favour. THE government is formed between absolute monarchy, which is a tyranny; democracy, which leads towards anarchy; and aristocracy, which fluctuating between one and the other, falls into the errors of both. The mixt government of the English, combining the advantages of these three powers, which mutually observe, moderate, assist, and refrain each other, tends of itself to the na national good. This constitution, of which there is no,inflance
B 0 0 K instance among the ancients, and which ought to serve as,, a model to posterity, will support itself a long time; be-cause it is not the result of manners, and of transient opinions; but of reasoning and experience. YET the people are with reason alarmed about the du ration of so good a government. Encroachments of the crown are not apprehended. The share the king holds in the legislation is too trifling, to prevail over the two houses of parliament. His right of refusal or consent is at present a mere matter of form. His greatest strength is in the executive power, which is solely vefted'in him. But as he hath only the right and exercise of this power, without having the instruments and the means, he cannot avail himself of it. If he were once to abuse it, he would run the risque of losing it for ever. The money comes from the taxes, and the taxes are imposed by par lament. The people supply the prince with subsidies, and he gives them an account of them. Hence, the par lament, under whole inspection the revenues and the expences pass, is the real legislator. It is the parliament that levies the taxes, and determines how they shall be employed. But although the prince is in this respect de pendent on the commons, yet he hath still a great as pendent over them, by the power of dispensing favours.,IN monarchies, kings are bribed; in England, 'they bribe. A philosophical and political writer, well ac quaint with the constitution of his country, asserts that this bribery is necessary, to check the tendency of the government to democracy; and that the people would become too powerful, if the king did not buy off the commons.,ON the other hand, if the prince were to. raise the richer members of the commons to the highest dignities, by creating peers at pleasure, he would make the govern-ment
ment lean to aristocracy. But as the dignity of peerage 0 0 K cannot be lavished without degrading it, and that besides . the riches will always circulate most among the com mercia part of the nation, it will scarce happen that riches and dignities will be accumulated and united in a few individuals; murmurs, troubles, and even editions will arise for the security of the people before such a mis fortune can take place. The interest of the collective body in the house of commons is refrained by the interest of each individual. The king is not rich enough to bribe them all; he cannot openly by them off without dishonouring them, nor enslave them without irritating the people. There will always be some Demagogues; and the nation stands in need of them to watch, to ac cure, and even to keep the parliament in awe. BUT, if the enjoyments of luxury should happen to tally to pervert the morals of the nation; if the love of pleasure should soften the courage of the commanders and officers of the fleets and armies; if the intoxication of temporary successes; if vain ideas of false greatness should excite the nation to enterprizes above their strength; if they should be deceived in the choice of their enemies, or their allies; if they should lose their colonies, either by making them too extensive, or by laying restraints upon them; if their love of patriotism were not exalted to the love of humanity: they would sooner or later be enslaved, and return to that kind of insignificancy from whence they emerged only through torrents of blood, and through the calamities of two ages of fanaticism and war. They would become like other nations whom they despise, and Europe could not shew the universe one na tion in which she could venture to pride herself. Despotism, which always oppresses most heavily minds that are subdued,and
BO O Kand degraded,' would alone raise its head, amidst the ruin,. of the arts, bofmorals, of reason, and of liberty the history of the united provinces is replete with great singularities. Their combination was formed by despair, and almost all Europe encouraged their establish ment. They had but jut triumphed over the long and powerful efforts of the court of Spain to reduce them to subjection, when they were obliged to try their strength against the Bretons, and disconcerted the schemes of France. They afterwards gave a king to England, and deprived Spain of the provinces she possessed in Italy and the Low Countries, to give them to Aufiria. Since that period, Holland has been disgusted of military po politics; and is solely employed in her preservation; which, however, The attends to, perhaps, with too little earnest nes, precaution and virtue. THE constitution of Holland, though traced out be fore-hand upon a studied plan, is not less defective than those that have been formed by chance. The seven pro vices compose a kind of heptarchy, the members of which are too independent of each other. In the republic each province is supreme; in the provinces, the cities are not subject. Alliances, peace, war, subsidies; no thing is done but by the states-general; and these again can do nothing without the consent of the provincial Rates, nor these without the determination of the cities. A sovereignty too much dispersed; this is the first fault of the constitution: unanimity of suffrages, a second; an equal number of votes, the third. Without any re gard to the difference of population and size, the pro vince of Holland has not more votes than that of Over Yssel, though it bearsntwenty times a greater share in the public expences. The suffrage of Amsterdam carries no more weight with it, than that of the most petty town:,which
which is a perpetual source of discord. If the obstinacy B OO K of one single province breaks the union, there is no legal # mediator to restore it: for the stadtholder not one. THIs magistrate, whose business it is to terminate re litigious disputes, has on that account a dangerous in fluence, because he may involve all affairs of religion with those of fate, and all affairs of slate with those of religion. Authorised as he is to determine upon the ar titles of the treaty of union, whenever there is a schism or division, the power he has of putting an end to discord makes it easy for him to foment it; and opens a vas field to his ambition. THESE fears occasioned the suppression of the stadtholder power towards the middle of the last century. But those who overthrew this phantom of tyranny, were insensibly proceeding to the establishment of real tyranny, by changing the democracy into an oligarchy. From that time, the burghers of each town lost the privileges of liberty, with the right of electing their magistrates and forming their senate. The burgomasters chore their officers and seized upon the finances, of which they gave no account but to their equals or their dependents. The senators arrogated to themselves the right of completing their own body. Thus the magistracy was confined within a few families, who assumed an almost exclusive right of deputation to the fates-general. Each province and each town were at thedifpofal of a small number of citizens, who, dividing the rights and the spoils of the people, had the art of eluding their complaints, or of preventing the rage of their discontent. THESE encroachments occasioned the restoration of the stadtholder's power in the house of Orange, and it has been made hereditary, even to the women. But a fradt. bolder is nothing more than a captain-general. 'I his V¥Ys. IV, E ma
B O O K magistrate, however, in order to be ufefiil to the repub, XX.lic, ought to belong totally to the fate. If he had as,much influence in the general assembly, as he has in the military council, he would have no other interests than those of his country; and would be as indifferent for war as for peace but, perhaps, it may be apprehended, that if the civil power should be united to the military force in the stadtholder, this dignity might one day become an in ferment of oppression. Rome is always quoted as an example to all our free states, that have no circumstance in common with it. If the dictator became the oppressor of that republic, it was for there reasons; that the re public had oppressed all other nations; that its power was to be destroyed by the sword that had founded it; and that a nation, composed of soldiers, could not escape the despotism of a military government. It is scarce credible but no less certain, that the Roman republic sub mitted to the yoke, because it paid no taxes. The con queried people were the only tributaries to the treasury. The public revenues, therefore, necessarily remaining the same after the revolution as before, property did not appear to be attacked; and the citizen thought he should be till free enough, while he remained the master of his for tunes holland, on the contrary, will maintain its liberty, because it is subject to very considerable taxes. The Dutch cannot preserve their country but with great ex pence. The sense of their independence alone excites an industry proportionable to the load of their contributions and to their patience in supporting the burthen of them. If to the enormous expences of the slate, it were necessary to add those which the pomp of a court re quires ; if the prince were to employ in maintaining the,agent
agents of tyranny, what ought to be bellowed on the 0 0 K,XIX. foundations of a land built upon the sea, he would soon L , drive the people to despair. AN inhabitant of Holland, placed upon a mountain, and observing from. afar the sea rising eighteen or twenty feet above the level of the lands, who fees it.advance with a roar against the dikes he has raised, considers, and thinks within himself, that sooner or later that boisterous element will get the better of him. He disdains Co precarious a dwelling, and his house, made either of wood or stone at Amsterdam, is no longer considered as his house; it is his ship that is his asylum, and by degrees he acquires an indifference and manners conformable to this idea. The water is to him what the vicinity of volcanos is to other people. IF to these natural causes of the decay of patriotic spirit were joined the loss of liberty, the Dutch would quit a country that cannot be cultivated but by men that are free; and this trading people would carry their spirit of commerce together with their riches to some other part of the globe. Their islands in Asia, their factories in Africa, their colonies in America, and all the parts of Europe would afford them an asylum. What stadtholder, what prince, revered by such a people, would wish, or - dare, to become their tyrant ? THE French, with a different situation, have a different kind of government, which hath gone through an infinite number of vicissitudes. Ever attached to a king, because they were founded by a military commander, a warlike disposition preserved them for a long time from political slavery. That openness of courage; that ab abhorrence of all kind of meanness; that frankness which they held from the Germans, made them believe either that they were free, or that they ought to be so, even.,E e under
B O 0 K under the dominion of kings. : Jealous of this idea they,IX entertained of themselves, the nobility which composed almost all the nation, pretended to be independent, not only of the monarch, but even of their own body. Each nobleman formed, in the midst of the state, a kind of private republic of his own family and his vassals. France had then a military government, impossible to be defined, something between aristocracy and monarchy, having all the abuses of these two constitutions, without their real advantages. A perpetual contes between the kings and the nobles, an alternate preponderation of the power of one single person, or of several; such was the kind of anarchy that lasted, almost without interruption, to the middle of the fifteenth century. THEN the character of the French was changed by a train of events that had changed the form of government. The war, which the English, combined with, or sub; je to the Normans, had incessantly carried on with this kingdom for two or three hundred years pat,' spread the alarm throughout, and occasioned great ravages. The triumphs of the enemy, the tyranny of the great, every thing made the nation wist that the prince should be in vested with power sufficient to drive away the strangers, and to keep the nobles in subjection. While a set of wise and warlike kings were labouring at this great work, a new generation arose. Every individual, when the danger was past, thought himself happy enough in the privileges that had been left to his ancestors. They neglected to trace the origin of the power of kings, which was derived from the nation; and Lewis the With, with out much effort, became more powerful than his predecessors . BEFORE his time, the history of France presents a complication of Fates, sometimes divided, and some-times
times united. Since that prince's reign, it is the history B O0 O of a great monarchy. The authority of several tyrants is centered in one person. The people are not more free; but the constitution is different. Peace enjoyed with greater security within, and war carried on with more vigour without. CIVIL wars, which lead a free people to slavery, and an enslaved people to freedom, have no other effect in France than that of humbling the great, without exalt ing the people. The ministers, who will always be the creatures of the prince, while the nation has no influence in the administration, have all sold their fellow citizens to their master; and as the people, who had nothing, could not lose any thing by this servitude, the kings have found it the more easy to effeCt it, especially as it was always concealed under a pretence of policy and even of relief. The antipathy excited by a great inequality of conditions and fortunes, hath favoured all the schemes that tended to aggrandize the regal authority. The princes have had the art to engage the attention of the people, sometimes by wars abroad, sometimes by religious disputes at home; to sussex the minds of men to be divided by opinions, and their hearts by different in interests; to excite and keep up jealousies between the fe vernal ranks of the slate; to flatter alternately each am bilious propensity with an appearance of favour, and to satisfy the natural envy of the people by the lowering of all ambition. The multitude, poor and despised, when they have seen all powerful bodies brought low one after another, have, at least, loved in their monarch the ene my of their enemies, THE nation, however, though by inadvertency it has lost the privilege of governing itself, has not yet submit ted to all the outrages of despotism. This is, because e 3 the
B O K the loss of its liberty has not yet been the effect of a tu-.-. . tumultuous and sudden revolution, but has been gradually brought about in a succession of several ages. The na national character, which hath always exerted its influence on the minds of the princes, and at court, if even by the means of the women only, hath formed a fort of balance of power, which as it hath moderated by manners the action of force and the reaction of free-will, hath pre vented thofe'fudden and violent exertions, from whence either monarchial tyranny, or popular liberty results.,INCONSISTENCE as natural to the minds of a gay and lively people, as it is to children, hath fortunately pre wailed over the systems of some despotic ministers. Kings have been too fond of pleasure, and too conversant with the real source of it, not to be induced frequently to lay aside the iron scepter which would have frightened the people, and dissipated the frivolous amusements to which they were addicted. The spirit of intrigue which hath ever prevailed among them, since the great people were called to court, has also continually overset the men in office with their schemes. As the change in the govern ment has been imperceptibly brought about, the subject have preserved a kind of dignity, in which the monarch himself has seemed to respect the origin or the esse of his own. He has continued the supreme legislator for a long time, without being either willing or able to abuse all his power. Restrained by the name only of the fundamental laws of the nation, he has frequently been afraid to act contrary to the principles of them. He has been sensible that the people had their rights to oppose to him. In a word, there has been no tyrant, even at a time when there was no liberty such, and fill more absolute, have been the govern ments of Spain and Portugal, of Naples and Piedmont;,and
and of the several small principalities of Italy. The prob O O K pie of the south, whether from inactivity of mind, or. corporeal weakness, seem to be born for despotism. The Spaniards with a great share of pride; and the Italians, notwithstanding all the powers of genius, have lost all their right and every trace of liberty. Wherever the monarchy is unlimited, it is impossible to ascertain exactly what the form of government is, since that varies not only with the character of each sovereign, but even at every period of the same prince's life. These states have all of them written laws; they have customs and foci ties that are privileged: but when the legislator can over turn the laws and tribunals; when his authority has no other basis than force, and when he calls upon God to make himself be feared, rather than beloved by imitating him; when the original right of society, when the un alienable right of property among citizens, when na national conventions, and the engagements of the prince are called upon in vain; in a word, when the govern ment is arbitrary, there is no longer any state; the nation is no more than the landed property of. one single in individual. IN countries of this fort, no statesmen will ever be formed. Far from its being a duty to be informed of public affairs, it is rather criminal and dangerous to have any knowledge of the administration. The favour of the court, the choice of the prince, supply the place of ta lents. Not but that talents are useful; they are some times wanted to serve, but never to command. Thus, in there countries, the people sussex themselves to be govern ed, provided they are but allowed to sleep. There is only one system of legislation in these delightful regions of Europe, which merits our attention; and this is the re public of Venice.,E e 4 A great
B O 0 K A great, magnificent and rich city, impregnable, though XX., without walls or fortifications, rules over seventy two islands. They are not rocks and mountains raised by time in the midst of a vast sea; but rather a plain parcel led out and cut into channels by the stagnation of a small gulph, upon the hope of a low land. These islands separated by canals, are at present joined by bridges. They have been formed by the ravages of the .ea,, and peopled by the ravages of war towards the middle of the fifth century. The inhabitants of Italy flying from At till, fought an asylum in the element of forms. THE Venetian lagunes at first made neither a part of the same city, nor of the same republic. United by one commercial interest, or rather by the necessity of defend ing themselves, they were, however, divided into as many separate governments as islands, each subject to its ref pensive tribune. FROM the plurality of chiefs contentions arose, and the destruction of the public good. These people, therefore, in order to make but one body, chose a prince, who-under the title of duke or doge, enjoyed for a long time all the rights of sovereignty, of which he only now retains the symbols. These doges were elected by the people till z 73, when the nobles seizing. upon the whole authority of the republic, named its chiefs the government of Venice would be the best of all governments, if an aristocracy were not, perhaps, the work. The several branches of power are divided there among the nobles, and balanced with an admirable equi libri. The great reign there undisturbed with a kind of equality, as the stars shine in the firmament during the silence of the night. The people enjoy this fight, and are contented with their subsistence and amusements. The distinction between plebeians and patricians is less,odious
odious than in any other republics; because the laws are B 0 0 K particularly directed to suppress and destroy the ambition X of the nobles. Besides, as the prosperity of Venice was founded upon its commerce, the people might console themselves for the loss of power, by the hopes of riches, which they might acquire by industry and labour. THE emulation excited by opulence among this mari time people, enabled them to maintain powerful armies; and the spirit of patriotism which is natural to republics, supplied them with soldiers. The variety of information resulting from the government of many, made them ex cet all other people in politics. They learned the art of forming, and destroying leagues, and of maintaining their ground again t the most formidable powers. Bit since the decay of their commerce hath lessened their ac activity abroad, and their vigour within, the republic of Venice is fallen into a tate of pusillanimous circum season. They have assumed and improved upon that jealousy and mistrust which is the national character of all Italy. With one half of the treasures and care they have bestowed since the neutrality they have observed for two centuries, they would have freed themselves from the dangers to which their very precautions have exposed them. Their chief confidence is in an inquisitor, who is continually prying among individuals, with the axe raised against any one who shall dare to speak good or evil of administration. The great crime is either the censure or approbation of government. The senator of Venice, concealed behind a grate, says to the subject: IV7o art thou, that dared to approve our eondut ! A curtain rises, and the poor trembling Venetian beholds a carcase tied to a gallows, and hears a terrible voice that calls out to him from behind the grate: It is thus we treat those who presque to apologize for us; go home, and be silent The,rc-
B O O K republic of Venice still supports itself by its cunning;, there is another in Europe which supports itself by discourage: this is the republic of Switzerland. THE Switzers, known in antiquity by the name of Helvetia, were not to be subdued any more than the Gauls and the Britons, but by Cefar, who was the greatest of the Romans, if he had been more attached to his country. They were united to' Germany, as a Ro man province, under the reign of Honoris. Revolutions which are frequent and easily accomplished in such a country as the Alps, divided colonies that were fera. rated by large lakes or great mountains, into several ba monies. The most considerable of these, occupied by the house of Aufiria, at length seized upon all the rest. Conquest brought on slavery; oppression occasioned re. volt; and liberty sprang up from the excess of tyranny. THERE are now thirteen cantons of robust peasants, who defend almost all the kings of Europe and fear none; who are better acquainted with their real interests than any other nation; and who constitute the most sensible people in all modern political States. These thirteen cantons compose among themselves, not a republic as the seven provinces of Holland, nor a simple confederacy as the Germanic body, but rather a league, a natural association of so many independent republics. Each canton hath its respective sovereignty, its alliances and its treaties separate. The general diet cannot make laws or regulations for either of them. THE three moat ancient are immediately connected with each of the other twelve. It is from this union of convenience not of constitution, that if one of the thir teen cantons were attacked, all the rest would march to its assistance. But there is no common alliance between all and each of them. Thus the branches of a tree reunited
united among themselves, without haying any immediate B 0 d K connection with the common trunk. XX. THE union of the Switzers was, however, indissoluble till the beginning of the-.6th century ; when religion, which should be the bond of peace and charity, disunited themes The reformation disjointed the Helvetic body, and the state was divided by the church. All public affairs are translated in the separate and particular diets of the catholic and protestant parties. The general diets are assembled only to preserve the appearance of union. Notwithstanding this feed of discord, Switzerland has enjoyed peace much more than any state in Europe. UNDER the Austrian government, oppression and the levying of militia, impeded population. After the revolution population increased too much in proportion to the barrenness of the land. The Helvetic body could not be enlarged without bursting, unless it made some ex curious abroad. The inhabitants of these mountains, as the torrents that pour down from them, were to spread themselves in the plains that border upon the Alps. These people would have destroyed each other, had they remained sequestered among themselves. But ignorance of the arts, the want of materials for manufactures, the deficiency of money to attraa the importation of provisions excluded them from the means of procuring the comforts of life and of encouraging industry. They drew even from their increase of numbers a method of subsisting and acquiring riches, a source and an object of trade. THE duke of Milan, mailer of a rich country open on all sides to invasion, and not easily defended, was in want of soldiers. The Switzers, who were his most powerful neighbours, must necessarily become his enemies, if they were not his allies, or rather his protectors. Asking
O Og kind of traffic was, therefore, set on foot between tradespeople and the Milanese, in which strength was bartered for riches. The nation engaged troops successively in the service of France, of the emperor, of the pope, of the duke of Savoy, and all the potentates of Italy. They sold their blood to the not distant powers, and to the nations most in enmity with each other; to. Holland, to Spain and to Portugal; as if these mountains w ere no thing more than a repository of arms and soldiers, open to every one who wanted to purchase the instruments of war each canton treats with that power which offers the best terms. The subjects of the country are at liberty to engage in war at a distance, with any allied nation. The Hollander is by the constitution of his country a citizen of the world; the Switzer by the same circumstance a def troyes of Europe. The profits of Holland are in pro portion to the degree of cultivation, and the consumed. tion of merchandise; the more battles and the more car nage there is, the greater is the prosperity of Switzer land.,IT is by war, that calamity inseparable from' mankind, whether in savage or civilized states, that the republics of the Helvetic body are forced to live and subsist. It is by this that they keep a number of inhabitants within pro portioned to the extent and fertility of their lands, with out forcing any of the springs of government, or re training the inclinations of any individual. It is by the traffic of troops with the belligerent powers, that Switzerland has been preserved from the necessity of sudden emigrations which are the cause of invasions, and from that of attempting conquers which would have occasioned the loss of the liberty of these republics, as it ruined all the republics of Greenest
Ife now take a review of what has been said, weB 0O O,XIX. hail find that all the governments of Europe are com, . pretended under some of the forms we have been de scribing, and are-differently modelled according to the local situation, the degree of population, the extent of territory, the influence of opinions and occupations, and the external connexions and variety of events that ac upon the organisation of the body politic, as the im pression of surrounding fluids ants upon natural bodies. WE are not to imagine, as it is often asserted; that all governments are nearly alike, with no other difference than the character of the men who govern. This maxim may, perhaps, be verified in absolute governments, among nations who have not any kind of free-will. These take the turn the prince gives them: they are haughty, proud and courageous, under a monarch that is active and fond of glory: indolent and melancholy under a superstitious king,: full of hopes and fears under a young prince; of weakness and corruption under an old despot; or rather alternately confident and weak under the several ministers Tailed by intrigue. In rich Rates, the government takes the character of the administration: but in free fates, it is just the reverse. WHATEVER may be said of the nature and springs of the constitutions by which men are governed, the art of legislation being that which requires the highest perfection, is also the most proper to employ men of the first genius. The science of government does not contain abstracted truths, or rather it has not one single principle which does not extend to all the branches of administration. THE slate is a very complicated machine, which cannot be wound up or set a going without a thorough knowledge of all its component parts. One of them cannot be drawn too tight or left too loose but that the whole ma-chine
BOO Chine must be in disorder. Every proves .that may be,beneficial- to a certain number-of citizens or in critical times, may become fatal to-the whole nation, and pre judicial for a long continuance. If we destroy or change the nature of any great body, those convulsive motions which are called Strokes of state, will disturb the whole nation, which may, perhaps, feel the effect for ages to come. All innovations ought to be brought about in sensibly, they should arise from necessity, excited by a fort of public clamour, or at least agree with the general wiles. To abolish or to create on a sudden, is to in crease evil and to spoil the good. To aA without con fulling the will of the generality, without collecting as it were the plurality of votes in the public opinion, is to alienate the hearts and minds of men, and to bring every thing into discredit, even what is honest and good.,IT would be a desirable thing in Europe, that the so reigns convinced of the necessity of improving the science of government, should imitate theChinefe establishment In this empire, the ministers are distinguished into two classes, the thinkers, and designers. While the last are employed in executing and expediting the as fairs, the first have nothing to do but-to form projects, or to examine such as are presented to them. This is the source of all those admirable regulations, which establish at China the most enlightened legislation, by the wisest administration. All Asia is under despotic government; but in Turkey and Persia, it is the despotism of opinion by religion; in China, it is the despotism of the laws by the influence of reason. Among the Mohammedanss, they believe in the divine authority of the prince; among the Chinese, they believe in natural authority founded upon the law of reason. But in there empires, it is con nation that acts upon the will.,IN
IN the happy slate of policy and knowledge to which B OOK,xIX. Europe has attained, it is plain that this conviction of. =. the mind, which produces a free, easy and general obedience can proceed from nothing but a certain evidence of the utility of the laws. If the governments would not pay bitters, who might, perhaps, become suspicious or corrupt as soon as they were mercenary; let them, at least, allow men of superior understandings to watching some measure over the public good. Every writer of-genius is born a magistrate of his country ; and he.oughe to enlighten it as much as it is in his power. His abilities give him a right to do it. Whether he be an obscure or a distinguished citizen, whatever be his rank or his birth, his mind, which is always noble, takes disclaims from his talents. His tribunal is the whole nation ; his judge is the public, not the despot who does not hear him, nor the minister who will not listen to him. ALL these truths have, doubtless, their boundaries: but it is always more dangerous to fife the freedom of think ing, than to leave it to its bent or impetuosity. Reason and truth triumph over the audacity of those violent minds, which are rouzed only by restraint, and irritated only by persecution. Kings and ministers, love your people, love mankind, and ye will be happy. Ye have then no reason to fear, either free or discontented minds, nor the revolt of bad men. The revolt of the heart is much more dangerous : for virtue, when soured and rouzed into indignation, becomes atrocious. Cato and Brutus were both virtuous; they were reduced to the necessity of chusing, between two great acs of out rage, suicide, or the death of Caesar. THE interest of government and those of the nation are the same. Whoever attempts to divide them, is but ill-acquainted with them, and can only prejudice them.,THERE
B o o K THERE may sometimes be discontented people under a , good government; but where there are a great numbers unhappy persons, without any advantage to the public prosperity, then the government is faulty in its nature mankind are just as we would have them to be; it is the mode of government which gives them a good or an evil propensities Rate ought to have but one object in view; and that is, public felicity. Every state has its own mode of tend ing to this end; and this mode is its spirit, its principle, to which every thing else is subordinate. A nation can have no industry for the arts, nor cou rage for war, without a confidence in and an attachment to the government. But whenever fear has broken all the other springs of the foul, a nation then becomes of no consequence, the prince is exposed to a thousand en surprises from without and a thousand dangers from within. Despised by his neighbours, and detested by his fibres, he hath reason to be in perpetual fear for the fate of his kingdom, and for his own life. It is a hap pines for a nation, that commerce, arts and sciences should flourish. It is even a happiness for thole who go vern, when they are not inclined to tyrannize. Upright minds are very easily led; but none have a greater aver ion for violence and slavery. Let good monarchs be bleed with enlightened people; and let tyrants have none but brutes to reign over. DESPOTISM is both raised and abolished by military power. In its infancy it is a lion that conceals his talons, to let them grow. In its full vigour, it is a madman who tears his body with his arms. In its advanced age, it is Saturn, who, after having devoured his children, is shamefully mutilated by his own race.,Go-
Government may be divided into legislation and po-BO O t lucy. Legislation a&s within, and policy without. Lt. SAVAGE nations have rather a policy than a legislation. Policy. Governed among themselves by manners and example, the only conventions or laws they have, are between one nation and another. Treaties of peace or alliance-are their only codes. SUCH were nearly the societies of antient times. Se parted by deserts, without any communication of trade or voyages, those people had only a present and immediate interest to fettle. All their negotiations confided in putting an end to a war by fixing the boundaries-of a state. As the business was to persuade a nation, andnot bribe a court by the mistresses or favourites of a prince, - eloquent men were employed in it, and the-naniesof-: orator and ambassador were synonymous. - IN the middle ages, when every thing, even justice itself was decided by force; when the Gothic government divided by interests all those petty states which owed their existence to its constitution; negotiations had but little influence over a wild and recluse people, who knew no right but that of war, no treaties but for truces, or ransoms. DuRING this long period of ignorance and barbarism, policy was entirely confined to the court of Rome. It had arisen from the artifices which had founded the papal government. As the pontiffs, by the laws of religion and the rules of the hierarchy, ruled over a very numerous clergy, which proselytes extended perpetually in all the christian states, the correspondence they kept up with the bishops, established early at Rome a center of communication for all these churches, or nations. All rights were subordinate to a religion, which reigned exclusively over all minds; it had altare in almost every transaction, VOL. IV. F f easter
B. 0 Neither as the motive or the means; and the popes by the xr Italian estuaries they had placed in the prelacies of,Chaif.endom, never failed of being informed of all the motions, and taking advantage of all events They had the higher interest in this; that of attaining universal monarchy. The barbarism of the times in which this project was conceived, did not diminish its greatness and sublimity. How daring was; the attempt, to subdue without troops. nations. that were always in. arms! What art to make even the weaknesses of the clergy referable and fared! What fkill-to-agitate, shake thrones. one as ter the other, in order to keep them. all in. subjection! So deep, so. extensive a design could not be put in; execution, bur as much as it was concealed; and, therefore,, was incontinent with .an hereditary monarchy.; in which the passions of kings and the intrigues of ministers, are the cause of so much instability in affairs. This.proje&, and the general rule of conduct it requires, could not be form ed but in an elective government,. in which the chief is always chosen from a body animated with the same spirit, and imbued with the same maxims; in which an aristocratic court rather governs the prince, than suffers itself to be governed by him. WHILE Italian policy was prying into all the states of Europe,. and seizing all occasions, to aggrandize and con firm ecclesiastical power,. each sovereign saw with indifference the revolutions that were taking place without. Most of them were too much engaged in establishing their authority in their own dominions, in disputing the branches of power with the several bodies that were in possession of them, or. who were striving, against the na tural bent that monarchy has to despotism.: they were not sufficiently mailers of their own inheritance, to interfere inthe affairs of their neighbour's. Legs
-THiE .ifteei'th' century changed the order of things 60O When the princes had collected their forces, they here irlclied to btirng then to acbiio. Till that time, the nations had only carried oti War with each other upon their tfepeetive frontiers. Tie feafori of the canpaigri was hated ii assembling troops, which every baron always raised very loivly. There we're the only skirmishes be trees pities, no regular battles BetWeen arises. When a prince either by alliances or inheritance had acquired dotiiaiis in different fates, She interests were confounded, ind coaitentioris arose among the people. It tai necessity tfoferid tegilai troops' if (he pay of the rttbhirbi, 'tb de send at a distance possessions that did not belong to tht flite. The crbwii of England no longer held provinces sri the heart of France; but that of Spain acquired rome rights-In Germany; and that of France laid chains in Italy. Frown that time all Europe Was in a perpetual al] tetnAfiVe of war and negotiations. Ths ambition the talents, and the rivalllip of Charles the fifth, and Francis the first, gave rise to the present fylteni'of mn6derfi politics. Bdfdte the tines of there two kings, the nations of France arid Spain had disputed the kingdom of Naples, in the name of the houses of Ar ragoh and Anjou. Their desertions had excited a ser felt: ihr'olitbut all Italy, rind the republic of Venice *as the foul of that civil re-damon agairifd two foreign pbvdrS. Thai Germans took a part in these commotions, fifthly as auxiliaries, or as being concerned in them. The emperor And the pope engaged in them with almost all Christendom. But Francis the first and Charles the fifth engaged in'their fate, the views, the anxiety, the destiny of all Europe. All the powers seemed to divide them selves between two rival houses, in order to wearied alter lately the mos powerful. Fortune favoured the talents,,f 2 the
B 0 K the force and the artifice of Charles the fifth. More am. ,- bilious and less voluptuous than Francis the first, his,charater turned the scale, and Europe inclined to his side, but did not take, the bend for ever.,PHILnP the second, who had all the spirit of intrigue, but not the military virtues of his father, inherited his projects and ambitious views, and found the times fa notable for his aggrandizement. He drained his king dom of men and lips, and even of money, though he was in possession of the mines of the new world; and left behind him a monarchy more extensive, but the king dom of Spain much weaker than it had been under his father. . His son imagined he should fallen the chains of Eu rope anew by an alliance with that branch of his house which reigned in Germany. - Philip the second had de tacked himself from it by negligence; Philip the third resumed this political track. But in other repeats he followed the erroneous, narrow, superstitious and pedantic principles of his predecessor Within the fate, there was much formality, but;no order, and no (Economy. The church was perpetually devouring the fate. The inquisition, that deformed monster, who hides his head in the heavens, and his feet in the infernal regions, struck at the root of population, which at the same time suffered considerably from war and the colonies. Without the fate, there were Rill the same ambitious views, with left skilful measures. Ali and precipitate in his enterprizes, flow and stubborn in the execution of them,. Philip the third had all those defects which are prejudicial teach other, and make every project miscarry-He exhausted the little life and vigour the monarchy had left. Richelieu availed himself of the weakness of Spain, and the foibles of the king whom he ruled over, to fill that period with,sis
his intrigues, and convey his name to* posterity. Germ O 0 K many and Spain were in a manner connected by the house of Austria:: 'to this league, he opposed by way of counterpoise that of France with Sweden. This system would have been the work of his times, if it had not beerfthe work of his genius. Gustavus Adolphusby'his conquests enslaved all the north. All Europe concurred in lowering the pride of Austria; and the peace of the Pyrenees turn ed the advantage of the £cale in favour of Spain and France. CHARLES the fifth had been accused of aiming at uni versal monarchy; and Lewis the fourteenth was taxed with the same ambition. But neither of them ever con civet so high and so rash a prose. They were both of them passionately desirous of extending their empire, by aggrandizing their families. This ambition is equally natural to princes of an ordinary cast, who are born with out any talents, as it is to monarchs of a superior under finding, who have neither virtue nor morals. But neither Charles the fifth, nor Lewis the fourteenth had that kind of determination, that impulse of the foul to brave every thing, which makes conquerors of heroes: they had no thing of Alexander about them. Nevertheless useful alarms were taken and spread abroad. Such alarms can not be tbo soon thought of, nor too soon spread, when there arise any powers that are formidable to their neigh ours. It is chiefly among nations, and with respect, to kings, that fear produces safety. WHEN Lewis the XlVth began to look about him, perhaps, 'he might be surprized at seeing himself more powerful 'than' bethought he was. His greatness was partly owing to the little harmony there was between the forces and the measures of his enemies. Europe had, indeed, felt the necessity of a common tie, but had not,F f 3 found
B O o Kfonnd out how to form it. In treating with this mo,,,narbc , proud of success, and vain from She applause he had received, it was thought a great deal was gained if all was not lost. In short, the insulting behaviour of France which increased with her victories the nature turn of her intrigues to spread dissection every where, in order to reign alone; her contempt for the faith of treaties her haughty and authoritative tone, confirmed the change of envy into hatred, and raised uniyprfalallarms, Even those princes, who had seen without umbrage, or rather favoured the increase of her power, felt the ne effigy of repairing this error in politics, and understood that they gulf combine and raise among themselves body of forces superior to those of France, in order to prevent her from tyrannizing over the nations. Leagues were, therefore, formed, but for a long time without effet. One single man appeared to animate and conduct them. Warmed with that public spirit, which only great .nd virtuous fouls can possess, it was a prince, though born in a republic, who was seized for all Europe with that love of liberty, fu natural to upright minds. This man turned his ambition towards the object the most elevated the most worthy of the time in which he lived. His gown interest never warped him from the interea of the public. With a courage which was entirely his own, he knew how to brave those very defeats he foresaw i expecting less success from his military talents, thane happy issue from his patience and his political activity. Such was the situation of affairs, when the succession to the throne of Spain set all Europe in flames since the empire of the Persians and that of the Ro mans, ambition had never been tempted by so rich a spoil. The prince, who might have joined it to his own crown, would naturally have risen to that universal mo-anarchy,
anarchy, the phantom of which terrified the minds of-all B O 6 K men. Vthe business, therefore, was to prevent this . . throne from falling into the hands of a power already formidable, and to keep the balance equal between the houses of Austria and Bourbon, who had the only here diary right to the throne. MEr well versed in the knowledge of the manners and affairs of Spain, have asserted, if we may believe Boling-broke, that had it not been for the hostilities, which were then raised by England and Holland, we should have seen Philip the Vth as good a Spaniard as the Philips his predecessors, and that the French cabinet would then have had no influence upon the Spanish administration; but that the war raised against the Spaniards to give then a king, obliged them to have recourse to the fleets and armies of a crown that was alone capable of assisting them in chusing one that would suit them. Vthis deep and just idea has been confirmed by the experience of half a century. Vthe turn of the Spaniards has never been able to coincide with the taste of the French. Spain, from the character of her inhabitants seems rather to be long to Africa than to Europe. THE events, however, answered to the general withes. Vthe armies and the councils of the quadruple alliance, gained an equal superiority over the common enemy. Instead of those languid and unfortunate campaigns, which had tried but not discouraged the prince of Orange, all the operations of the confederates were successful. *France, in her turn, humbled and defeated on all sides, was upon the brink of ruin, when she was restored by the death of the emperor. IT was then perceived, that if the archduke Charles-crowned with the imperial diadem, and succeeding to all the dominions of the house of Austria, should join Spain's 4 and
-3 0 Kand the Weft-Indies to this vast inheritance, he would , be in possession of that same exorbitant power, which the,war had wrested from the houses Bourbon. But, the enemies of France fill persisted in their design of de throning Philip the Vth, without thinking of the person that was to succeed him; while true politicians, not withstanding their triumphs, grew tired of a. war, the very success of which always became an evil, when it could no longer do any good. THIS difference of opinions raised dissentions among the allies, which prevented them from reaping all those advantages from the peace of Utrecht, which they might reasonably have expected from their success. Vthebes barrier that could be formed to cover the provinces of the allies, was to lay open the frontiers of France. Lewis the XIVtb had employed forty years in fortifying them, and his neighbours had suffered him quietly to raise these bulwarks which kept them in continual awe. It was necessary to demolish them: for every firing power that puts itself in a posture of defence, intends to form an attack. Philip remained upon the throne of Spain j and the fortifications were left standing in Flan ders, and on the borders of the Rhine.,SINCE this period, no opportunity hath offered, to re pair the imprudence committed at the peace of Utrecht. France hath always maintained its superiority on thecon. tient: but chance hath often diminished its influence. Vthe scales of the political balance will never be perfectly even, nor accurate enough to determine the degrees of power with exacts precision. Perhaps, even thisfyfiem of equality may be nothing more than a chimera. ,Vthe balance can only be fixed by treaties, and treaties can have no solidity, when they are only made between ab solute monarchs, and not between .nations. Vthese afts,ought
ought to bind the people themselves, because the object B 00 K of them is their peace and safety, which are their. XIX greatest good: but a despot always sacrifices his sub sects to his anxiety, and his engagements to his am ambition. BUT it is not war alone that determines the superiority of nations, as it has been hitherto imagined; since the las half century commerce hath had a great share in it. While the powers of the continent measured and par celled out Europe into unequal portions, which po lucy by leagues, treaties, and alliances always kept in equilibrium; a maritime people formed as it were a new system, and by its industry made the land subject to the sea; as nature herself has done by her laws. It formed, or unfolded that extensive commerce, the bails of which it an excellent agriculture, flourishing manufactures, and the richest possessions of the four quarters of the world. This is the kind of universal monarchy that Europe ought to wrest from England, in restoring to each ma time state that freedom, and that power it hath a right to have upon the element that surrounds it. This is a fyfle'n of public good founded upon natural equity, and in this case justice is the voice of general interest. The people cannot be too much warned to resume all their powers, and to employ the resources offered them by the climate and the soil they inhabit, to acquire that national and distinct independence in which they were born. - IF all Europe were sufficiently enlightened, and if each nation were acquainted with its rights and its real advantages neither the continent, nor the ocean would mu tully give laws to each other; but a reciprocal influence would be established between the continental and mari time people, a balance of industry and power, which would induce a mutual intercourse for the general benefit.,Each
B O 0 K Each nation would low and reap upon its proper elements,. The several flares would enjoy the same liberty of exportation and importation that Should subsist between the provinces of the same empire. THERE is a great error that prevails in modern poli tics, which is that of weakening ones enemies as much as possible. But, no nation can labour at the ruin of others, without paving the way for and hastening its own slavery. There are certainly moments in which for tune at once throws into the way of a people a great in crease of power; but such sudden elevations are not last ing. It is oftentimes better to support rivals, than to oppress them. Sparta refused to enslave Athens, and Rome repented of having destroyed Carthage.,THIS elevation of ideas, which belongs still more to nations than to kings, would prevent politicians from the necessity of committing many crimes and asserting many falsehoods; and would remove many impediments and difficulties out of the way of negotiators. At pre sent, the complication of affairs hath rendered negotiations very intricate. Policy, like that insidious in set that weaves its web in darkness, hath stretched forth its net in the midst of Europe, and fattened it, as it were, to every court. One single thread cannot be touched without drawing all the rest. The lowest sovereign hath rome hidden concern in the treaties between the great powers. Two petty princes of Germany can not exchange a fief, or a domain, without being thwarted or seconded by the courts of Vienna, Versailles, or London Negotiations muff be carried on in all the cabinets for years together for every the most trifling change in the disposition of the land. The blood of the people is the only thing that is not bargained for. Wear is deter mined upon in a couple of days, peace is dragged on forbears.
years, This slowness in negotiations, which proceeds B from the nature of things, is partly owing also to then , character of the negotiators. MosT of there are ignorant pen, who are treating with some enlightened persons. There are, perhaps, two or three wise and judicious cabinets in Europe. The rest ar in possession of intriguing men, raised to the manage lent of affairs by the passions and shameful pleasures of ag after and his mistresses, A man' is advanced to a share in the administration, without knowing any thing of the matter; he adopts the first yfyeem that is offered to his caprice; pursues it without understanding it, and with so much the more obstinacy the more ignorant he is; he overturns all that has been done by his pride. censors, in order to lay the foundations of his own system, which he will never be able to raise. Richelieu's first declaration, when he became minister, was: the council hath altered its port. This saying, which was once found to be a good one, in the mouth of one tingle man, has, perhaps, been repeated, or thought of, by every one of Richelieu's successors. All public men have the vanity, not only to proportion the parade of their expense, of their manner, and of their air, to the height of their office; but even to swell the opinion they have of their understanding, in proportion to the influence of'their authority. When a nation is great and powerful, what should its governors be ? The court and the people will answer this question, but in a very different manner. The ministers see nothing ia their office but the enlargement of their rights; the people see nothing but the enlargement of their duties. The ideas of the people arejufl; for the obligations and rights of each government ought to be regulated by the wants and desires of each nation. But,this
B0 0 Ktlhis principle of natural right is not applicable to the social fate. As societies, whatever be their origin, are almost all of them subject to the authority of one single man, political measures are dependent on the character of the prince. IE the king is a weak and unsteady man, his govern ment will change as his ministers, and his politics will vary with his government. He will have alternately mi sisters, ignorant or enlightened, steady or fickle, de restful sincere, harsh or humane, inclined to war or peace; such, in a word, as the vicissitude of intrigues will produce them. Such government will neither have system nor order in its politics; and all other govern ments will not be able to keep up fixed views and per anent measures with it. The system of politics must then vary with the day, or the moment; that is, with the humour of the prince. BUT the fate of nations and political interests are very different in republican governments. As the authority there resides in the collective body of the people, there are certain principles and some public interests that pre vail in the negotiations. In this case the permanency of a yfltem is not to be confined to a duration of a ministry, or to the life of one single man. The general spirit that exists and perpetuates itself in the nation, is the only rule of the negotiations. Not but that a powerful citizen or an eloquent demagogue, may sometimes lead a popular government into a political mistake; but this is easily recovered. Faults, in there instances, are lessons, as well as successes are. Great events, and not men, produce remarkable periods in the history of republics. It is in vain to attempt to over-reach a free people by artifice, or intrigues in a treaty of peace, or alliance. Their maxims will always bring them back to their last-sing
ing interests, and all engagements will give way to the B 0 0 K supreme law. In these governments, it is the safety . of the people that does every thing, while in others it is the will of the master. THIS contrast of political maxims has rendered popular constitutions suspicious or odious to all absolute monarchs. They have been under apprehensions least the republican spirit should reach to their own fubjeas, the weight of whose chains they are every day increasing. One may, therefore, perceive a kind of secret conspiracy between all monarchies, to destroy, or insensibly to sap the foundations of all free states. But liberty will arise from the midst of oppression. It is already in every heart; and it will be conveyed by public writings into the minds of all enlightened men; and by tyranny into the hearts of the people. All men will, at length, feel, and this period is at no great distance, that liberty is the first gift of heaven, as it is the first source of virtue. The instruments of despotism will become its destroyers; and the enemies of humanity, those who seem armed at present merely, to fight against it, will exert themselves in its defence. WAR, as well as society, has exiled at all times and War. in all countries; but the art of war is only to be found in certain ages of the world, and among certain people. The Greeks instituted it, and conquered all the forces of Asa. Te Romans improved stand conquered the world. These two nations worthy to command all others, since they raised themselves by genius and by virtue, owed their superiority to the infantry, in which every single' man exerts his whole strength. The phalanxes and the legions were victorious every where. WHEN indolence rather than activity had introduced cavalry into their armies, Rome lost some of its glory,and
O a K and success. Notwithstanding the exact discipline of its xIx. . , troops, it could no longer make a resistance to barbarous,mtioris, that fought on foot. YET, there half-savage men, who with arms alone and the mere powers of nature, had subdued the soft extensive and most civilized empire of the universe, soon changed their infantry into cavalry. This Was properly called the line of battle, or the army, All the nobility were ri p6ffeffiori of the lands and the privileges, those appurtenances of victory chose to ride oh horseback; while the enslaved people were left on foot, almost with out arts and without estimation. INr times when the gentleman was distinguished by his hors, w-heni the man was nothing, but the rider was all; where wars were nothing but irruptions, arid cam pains buta day; when success depended upon th quick ness of miracles: then the fate 6f armies was determined by cavalry. During the thirteenth and fourteen centuries here were scarce any cheer troops in Europe. The dexterity and strength of-riieh was si hunger flheWd in v.wftirig, at the cestus, in the exercise 6f the arms, and' cf all the muscles of the body; but in tournaments, id managing a horse, and in throwing the lattice in full speed. This species of war, tore' suitable to wandering Tartars, thar to fixed a'td (sedentary societies, was one of the errors of the feudal government. A! race' 6f con queries, whose rights were only if their swords; whose merit and glory was in their arms'; Who ad cano-other occupations than hunting, could hardly avoid siding ors horseback, with all that train of pride and spirit 6f au authority they muff necessaries acquire from a rude and uncultivated understanding. But what could troops of heavy-armed cavalry avail in the attack aid definite of,carfles
castles: and. towns, fortified by walls or by surrounding B 0 0 waters ?-. IT is this imperfection in the military art which occasioned a war to half uninterruptedly for ages, between. France and England. War was carried on perpetually for want of a sufficient number of combatants. Whole months were. required to collet, to arm, to lead into the field troops that were only to flay there for a few weeks. Kings could not assemble more than a certain number of vassals, and those at fated times. The lords had only a right to call under their banners some of their tenants, at stipulated terms. Forms and rules then wasted all the time in war, as they now absorb all fortunes in the courts of justice. At length the French tired with being con flatly obliged to repulse the English, like the horse that implored the assistance of man against the flag, suffered the yoke and burthen to be imposed upon them, which they bear to this day. Kings railed, in their own pay, troops that subsisted. always. Charles the seventh., after having expelled the English with mercenaries, when he: disbanded his army,. keptnine thousand horse, and sixteen. thousand infantry. This was. the origin of the abasement of the nobility, and the elevation of monarchy; of the political liberty of the nation, without, and its civil slavery within. The people were delivered, from feudal tyranny, but to fall some time or other under the despotism of kings. So much does human nature seem born for. slavery ! It be came necessary to raise a fund for the payment of a mi !ita.; and the taxes were arbitrary, and, unlimited as the number of soldiers, that were distributed. in the different parts of the kingdom, under a pretence of guarding. rhe frontiers against the enemy.; but, in. fa, to refrain and, oppress. the subject. The officers, commanders and go-governors
Rep 0 Governors were tools of government. always-armed against I the nation itself. They and their soldiers longer look-,~ed upon themselves, as citizens of the state, solely de voted to the defence of the property and rights-of the people. They acknowledged longer any person in the. kingdom, except the king, in whose name they were ready to massacre their fathers and brothers. In short, the militia of the nation was nothing more than a royal militia. THE discovery of gunpowder which required large ex pence and great preparation, forges, magazines, and ar seals, made arms more than ever dependent on kings, and completed the advantage that infantry hath over ca vary. The latter presented the flank of the man and horse to the former. A horseman dismounted was either lot or good for nothing; and a horse without a leader carried confusion and dismay among the ranks. 'The ha rock which the artillery and fire-arms made in Squadrons was more difficult to repair than it was in the battalion. In a word, men could be bought and disciplined at a less expence than horses: and this made it easy for kings to have soldiers.,Ttus the innovation of Charles the seventh, fatal to his subjects, at leas in futurity, became from his-exam ple prejudicial to the liberty of all the' people of Europe. Every nation was obliged to keep itself upon the defence against a nation always in arms. The right system of po politics, if there were any politics at a time when hearts, literature and commerce had not yet opened a communi cation among people, would have been, that the princes should all together have fallen upon that one who had put himself into a fate of continual war. But instead of compelling him to lay down his arms, they took up arms themselves. This contagion spread itself thequicker,,as
astir appeared the only remedy 'against the danger of an B 0 0 K invasion, the only guarantee of the security of the .a,- ; nations: THERE was however in all parts a want of the know ledge necessary. to discipline a body of infantry, the im-n portance of which began to be perceived. The manner of fighting which the Switzers had used against the Bur indians, had rendered them as famous as formidable.' With weighty swords and long halberds, they had always overcome theories and men of the feudal militia. Their ranks being impenetrable, and marching on in close co lumps, they overthrew all that attacked, and all that op:. posed them. .Every power was then desirous of having somers thefefoldiers. But, the Switzers, sensible of the . need there was'of their alliance, and setting the purchase of it at too high late, it became necessary to resolve to do. without them, and to form in all parts a national in fantry,- in order not to depend upon these auxiliary troops; T-HE Germans were the first to adopt a discipline that required only strength of body, and subordination. Pro feeding from a country abounding in men and horses, they alio? rivalled the reputation of the Swiss infantry, with out lofing.tbe advantage qs their own cavalry. THE. French, more lively, adopted with greater. difficulty and.more slowly, a kind of militia that laid a re first upon all their motions, and seemed rather to re quire. perseverance than impetuosity. But the taste for imitation and novelty prevailed among this light people, over that vanity which is fond of its own customs THE Spaniards, notwithstanding the pride they have been reproached with, improved upon the Switzers, by bringing to greater perfection the discipline of that warlike Vot. IV. G g people.
B O 0 K people. They formed an 'infantry which became alter. . , nately'the-terror and admiration of European proportion as the infantry increased, the custom and Service of the-feudal militia ceased in all parts, and the war was-more arid more extended. National constitution had'for ages paftfcafce allowed the several people towage war'beybnd the barriers of their own states.' It'was'car- sied on 'uip6n' the' frontiers only 'between the'neighbouring powers. "When France and Spain had' tried their arms iiithe rnift'remote' extremities of Italy, it'was no longer possible to call together the ban and arrive ban of the nations; because was not in fa the people's made war agaiifi each other, but 'the kings-with their troops, 'fr the' honour of themselves or their families, without any regard to the good of their subjects. Not that the princes did not endeavour to interest the national pride of the people in their quarrels; 'but this was done merely to weaken or totally'to'fubdue that spirit-of independence which was still struggling among some sets of men, against that absolute authority which the princes 'had gradually assumed. ALL Europe was in commotion. 'The Germans in Italy the Italians in Germany; the French in-both these countries. The Turks were set down before Na les and Nice; 'and the:Spaniards were all at once, in Africa, in Hungary, in Italy, in Germany, in France, and in'the low countries. All these nations irritated, and praised in war, became adepts in the art of fighting and destroying each other with infallible regularity and pre vision. IT was religion that caused the Germans to contend with the Germans; the French with the French ; but-which 'more particularly excited Slanders against Spain. 'Twas on the fens of Holland that sell all the-rage of a,bigotted
trotted and despotic king; of a superstitious and fan O O K luminary prince:;".of.two Philips, and a duke of Alba. It. . was in.the low countries that a republic arose from.the persecutions tyranny, and the flames.of the inquisition. When 'freedom. had broken her chains, and :found an .asylum .in.the ocean, fhe.raifed her 'bulwarks upon, the ,continent. The Dutch were the first who put in praise she art of fortifying places: so much doth genius ,and.iq- mention belong to free. .minds. Their example was fopllgw- sd in all parts, Extensive states had only occasions for tify;thir.frontieits. Germany and Italy, divided .among a:number.of princes, were thick set with .wrong citadels :stan one end: to the other. When we travel through these countries, .we meet every evening with gates, shut ahnddraw-bridges at the entrance of the towns. WHILE the dutch were improving the art of .fortify ing,,attacking, and defending towns, the Swedes were .employed in forming, as it were, the military science of-sheffield. Gustavus Adolphus was. eminently skilled in ,the art of war, which other nations have acquired at times, but which the Germans have always preserved, .s peculiarly attached to their climate. There are soldiers in other parts, but it is. Germany alone that furnishes generals. THIS art had been in constant use for a century pair, when it was remarkably improved by Lewis the four teeth. He first introduced the cutfom of wearing a uniform; of carrying the bayonet at the end of the fire lock; of making use of the artillery to advantage; in a word, of increasing to the utmost the' deftruAiye powers of fire and sword. THE king's Prussia alone hath invented a new method .of disciplining armies, of heading battles, and of gaining .victories. This .prince, who would have, been betters g 2 served
B' O K served by another nation, and certainly better commended than he could possibly be by his own;' who hath not had, price Alexander, his equal in history for extent and va rie.y of talents; who without having'been himself formed by Greeks, hath been able to form Lacedaemonian; he, in ai'word, who bath deserved; beyond all: others,. that 'Nisi name hould be recorded in his age, as a distinction y;ing in greatness with thole of the finest-ages of the world: this same king of Prussia hath totally changed fie principles of war, by giving in some measure to the-gsa n advantage over the arms; that is today, that by the rapidity of his evolutions and the celerity'of his arches, he hath always excelled his enemies, even when be hath not conquered them. All the nations of Europe have been obliged to imitate his example, in order not to be obliged to submit to him. He will enjoy the glory, since it is one, of having raised the art of war to a degree of per section, from which fortunately it cannot but degenerate.,IT is not to him but to Lewis the fourteenth, that we must ascribe that prodigious multiplicity of troops, which presents us with the spectacle of war even in the midst of peace. In imitation of that monarch, who had always 'a" numerous army on foot, all the princes of Europe, whether ruling over large or small states, have kept bodies of troops, oftentimes more burdensome to the fubjce from the expences of their pay, than useful for the defence of the state. Some of the most politic among them have engaged these troops in the pay of greater powers; and thus by a double advantage, they. have contrived to raise large sums of money for lives which were always sold but never exposed. WHAT right then have we to exclaim against there ages of barbarous manners under the feudal government-war was then no more than a state of commotion, a,teCm
tempestuous period;. but at present it is almost a na B.o I K tural sate. Moll governments now either are, or be-.x come military. Even the improvement of discipline is a proof of it. Security in our fields, tranquillity in the cities, whether troops are passing through or are quartered in them.; the police which prevails about camps and in garrisoned towns, do, indeed, Thew us that arms have rome restraint, but at the same time indicate that every thing is subject to their power. Though the licentiousness and plunder of the soldier are restrained, the people are obliged to pay dear for this security, by the levying of taxes and militia. It is not merely by battles that war is fatal. A million of men lost or destroyed are nothing out of a hundred million which Europe may, perhaps, contain. But this million are the flower of the population, the choicest of the youth, the source of reproduction, the life of industry and labour. And in order to support and recruit this million of troops, all the Several orders of society must be burdened, which encroaching one upon the other, must necessarily oppress the lowest and most useful of them, that of the husbandmen. The increase of taxes and the difficulty of collecting them, destroy from want or.hunger those very families, 'that are the parents and nurseries of the manufactures and the armies. ANOTHER inconvenience arising from the increase of troops, is a diminution of bravery. There are few men that are born fit for war. If we except Lacedaemon and Rome, where women that were free citizens brought forth'foldiers; where children were lulled to sleep, and awakened with the noise of trumpets and warlike songs; where education rendered men unnatural, and made them beings of a different species: all other nations have only had a few brave men amongst them. And, indeed, the,G e lesser
B O Lesser is the number of troops raised-the better will they,I .be. Formerly, among our ancestors, less civilized: but stronger than we are, the armies were much less nu serous than ours, but the engagements were more de ifitve. It was necessary to be a noble or a rich man to serve in the army, which was looked upon both as an honour and a privilege. None but volunteers bore the standard. All their engagements ended with the cam pain; and any man who disliked the art of war, was at liberty to withdraw himself. Besides, there was then more of that heat of the blood, of that greatness of fen tient which constitutes true courage. Present, what glory is there in serving under absolute commanders, who judge of men by their size, estimate them by their pay, enlist them by force or by stratagem, and keep or discharge them at pleasure without their consent, as they have taken them ? What honour is there in aspiring to the command of armies under the baneful influence of courts, where every thing is given or taken away without reason; where men without merit are raised and others without offence are degraded by mere caprice? There fore, except in riling empires, or in critical times, the greater number there are of soldiers in the slate, the more is the nation weakened; and in proportion as a fate is enfeebled, the number of its soldiers is increased.,A third inconvenience is, that the increase of the mi litia tends to despotism. A number of troop?, towns well fortified, magazines and arsenals may prevent ir eruptions; but in preserving a people from the invasions of a conqueror, they do not secure them from the en encroachments of a despotic prince. So many soldiers do but keep those that are already slaves in chains. The strongest then prevails, and makes every thing conform to his will, as every thing is subservient to his power.,By
By the force of arms alone, he. sets the opinions, off men B: O K at defiance, and inforces obedience. With soldiers he i levies taxes ; and by taxes he raises soldiers, He imagines that he exerts and shews his authority,, by destroying what he hath formed; but his exertions are vain and fruitless. He is perpetually renewing his militia, with out ever being able to recover the national strength. In vain do his soldiers keep his people in continual awe; if his subjects tremble at his troops; his troops inr return will fly from the enemy. But in there circumstances the loss of battle is the loss of a kingdom. The hearts of all being alienated, are impatient of submitting to a so reign yoke; because under the dominion of a conqueror, there are fill hopes, under that of a despot, there is no thing but apprehension. When the progress of the mi litany government hath induced despotism, then the na tion is lost. The soldiery soon becomes insolent and detested. Families become extina by barrenness occasioned from wretchedness and debauchery. A spirit of discord and hatred prevails amongst all orders of men, that are either corrupted or disgraced. Societies betray, sell, and plunder each other, and give themselves up one after another to the scourges of-the despot, who op presses, destroys, and annihilates them all. Such is the end of that art of war, which induces a military govern ment. Let us now consider the influence of the navy. THE antients have transmitted to us almost all thofeNavy. arts, that have been revived with the restoration of let terms; but we have gone beyond them in the military management of the navy. Tyre and Sidon, Carthage and Rome, scarce knew any sea but the Mediterranean; to fail through which it was only necessary to have rafts, gallies, and men to row them. Sea engagements might then be obstinate i but it required no great skill to con-,G g 4 strut
O. iKltruaand equip the fleets. To:pafs from Europe,'into A-africa, nothing-was necessary, but what may recalled flat-bottomed boats which landed Carthaginianss or ,Rn mans; who were almost the only people engaged in sea fights. The Athenians and the republics of Asia, were fortunately more employed in commerce than in fighting. AFTER there famous nations had abandoned both the land and the sea to plunderers and to pirates, the navy remained during twelve centuries, in that state of anni libation into which all the other arts were fallen; These swarms of barbarians, who over-ran and totally destroyed Rome, came from the Baltic, upon rafts or canoes, to ravage and plunder our sea-coals, without quitting, how ever, the continent. These were not voyages, but de rents upon the coast that were continually renewed: The Danes and Normans were not armed for a cruize, and scarce knew how to fight but upon land. AT length, chance or the Chinese supplied the Euro means with the compass, and the compass gained them America. The needle, which taught sailors to know how far they were distant from the north, or how near they approached to it, emboldened them to attempt longer voyages, and to lose fight of land for whole months to gather. Geometry and astronomy taught them how to compute the progress of the constellations, to determine the longitude by them, and to judge pretty nearly'how far they were advancing to the east-and to the weft; Even at that time, the height and, the defiance of vessel from the coast might always have been known. Though the knowledge of the longitudes be much more inaccurate than that of the latitudes, yet both the one and the other had soon sufficiently improved navigation, to-give rise to the art of carrying on war by sea. . The first essay, however, of this art was made between gallies that wherein
in!poffeflion of: the Mediterranean. ' The mobs celebrated B o O1i engagement of the modern navy was'that.of Lepanto, , which was given two centuries ago, between two hun died and five christian, and two. hundred and sixty Turkish gallies. It was Italy alone, which hath invent ed every thing and preserved nothing, that had confirmed this prodigious armament ; but at that time, its trade, it population were the double of what they are at pre. lent. Besides, those gallies were neither so long nor so large as thole of our times, as we may judge of rome of the old carcases that are still preserved in the arsenal of Venice. · The number of rowers amounted to one hun died and fifty, and the troops did not exceed fourscore in one galley. At this day Venice has more beautiful gal lies and-less influence upon that sea which the doge mar ries, and which other powers frequent and trade upon. GALLIES, indeed, were very proper for criminals; but ftobnger'veffels were required for soldiers. The art of contributing ships improved with that of navigation. Philip the second, king of all Spain, and of the East and Wel; Indies, employed all the docks of Spain and Portugal, Na les and Sicily which he then possessed, in construing Ships of an extraordinary size and strength; and his fleet flurried the title of the Invincible Armada. It consisted of one hundred and thirty ships, near one hundred of which were the largest that had yet been seen on the ocean. Twenty small ships followed this fleet, and failed or fought under its protection. The pride of the Spa niards; in the sixteenth century, hath dwelt very much upon-and exaggerated the pompous description of this formidable armament. But what spread terror and admiration two centuries ago, would now serve only to excite laughter. The largest of those lips would be no more than a third-rate vessel in our squadrons. They were so,heavily
B 0 0 K heavily armed,. and Co ill-conduced, that they could neither move, nor fail near the:wind, nor board another vessel, nor could the flip be properly worked in tempestuous weather. The sailors whereas awkward as the ships were heavy, and the pilots almost as ignorant as the sailors the English, who were already acquainted with the weakness and little skill of their enemies at lea, con eluded that their inexperience would occasion-their defeat. Satisfied with avoiding to board these weighty machines, they burned a part of them. Some of these enormous galleons were taken, others disabled. A storm cameron.: most of the Ships had lost their anchors; they were abandoned by their crews to the fury of the waves, and cast away, some upon the western coasts of Scotland, others upon the coasts of Ireland. Scarce one half of this in vincible fleet was able to return to Spain, where its tattered condition, joined to the terror of the tailors, spread a consternation throughout the land, from which it has never recovered. The Spaniards were for ever depressed by the loss of an armament that had cost three years of preparation, and upon which all the forces and revenues of the kingdom were almost exhausted. THE definition of the Spanish' navy occasioned the dominion of the sea to pass into the hands of the Dutch. The pride of their former tyrants could not be more pro percy punished than by the prosperity of a people, forced by oppression to break the yoke of regal authority. When this republic began to raise its head from amidst its fens, the rest of Europe was embroiled in civil wars by the spirit of fanaticism. Persecution drove men into Holland from all other states. The inquisition which the house of Aufiria wished to extend over all parts of its dominion; the persecution which Henry the second,raised
'aimed ih! France the ,emissaries of Rome, who were BO'OI' supported in'England by Mary; every thing, in a word, Xo : concurred to people Holland with an immense number of refugees; . This country had neither lands, nor harvest for their subsistence. They were forced to. seek it by sea throughout the whole universe. - Almost all the commerce of Europe was engrossed by Lisbon, Cadiz and Antwerp, under one sovereign, whore power and ambition made him an universal object of hatred and envy. The new republicans, having escaped his tyranny, and being ex cited by-resentment and necessity, became pirates, and formed a navy at the expence of the Spaniards and Portuguese whom they held in utter aversion. France and! England, who in the advancement of the rising public, foresaw nothing more than the humiliation of the house of Aufiria, assisted her in preserving conquests and spoils, the value of which they were yet unacquainted with. Thus the Dutch secured to themselves establishment whenever they chore; fixed themselves in these acquisitions before the jealousy of other nations could be ex cited; and imperceptibly made themselves masters of all commerce by their industry, and of all the seas by the strength of their squadrons. THE domestic contentions in England were for a while favourable to this prosperity, which had been so silently acquired in remote'countries. But at length Cromwell touched in his country the emulation of commerce, so natural to the inhabitants of an island. To flare the empire of the seas with them was, in sac, to give it up to shem; and the Dutch were determined to keep it. In stead of seeking the alliance of England, they courage oufly resolved upon war. They carried it on for a long time with unequal force; and this perseverance against misfortune preferred to them, at least, an honourable,rivalfhip.
B: OOK'rivalhip. Superiority in the. confusion and form ops ,. - the lips often gave the victory to their enemies; but the vanquished never met with any decisive losses; THESE long and dreadful combats, however, had ex. hauled, or, at leafy diminished the strength of the two. nations, when Lewis XIV, willing to avail himself of their mutual weakness, aSpired to the empire of the .lea. When this prince first assumed the reins of government, he found no more than eight or nine vessels in his harbours, and those half rotten; neither were they Ships of the first or second rate. Richelieu had known the necessity of raising a pier before Rochelle, but not of forming a navy; the idea of which must, however, have been conceived by Henry the IVth and his friend Sully. But it was re served to the fines age of the French nation to give birth to every improvement at once. Lewis, who caught, at least, all the ideas of grandeur, he did not himself create, established a council for the construction of ships in each of the five ports which he opened to the royal or military navy. He formed docks and arsenals; and in less than twenty years, the French had one hundred lips of the line. THEY first tried their strength with the people of Bar mary, who were beaten. They afterwards lowered the Spanish flag. Then, engaging with the fleets of England and Holland, sometimes separate, and sometimes combined, they generally gained the honour and advantage of the fight. The first memorable defeat the French navy experienced, was in 1692, when with forty .hips, they attacked go English and Dutch this opposite La Hogue in order to give the English a king they would not have, and who was not himself very desirous of the title. The most numerous fleet obtained the viaory. James the second felt an involuntary pleasure at the triumph of,the
the people who expelled him; as if at this instant the B 0 0 K,XIX. blind love of his country had prevailed within him,. over. ' his ambition for the. throne. Since that day the naval powers. of France have been upon the decline, and have never been re-established. FROM that period England assumed a superiority, which hath carried it to the highest. pitch of prosperity .A people who are at present the fir upon the seas, easily per fade themselves that they have always held that empire. Sometimes they trace their maritime power to the era of Julius Caesar; sometimes they will assert that they have ruled over the ocean, at least, since the ninth century. Perhaps, rome day or other, the Corsicans who are nothing at present, when they are become a maritime people, will record in their annals that they have always ruled over the. Mediterranean. Such is the vanity of mankind, they must endeavour to aggrandize themselves in past as well as future times. Truth alone, that exists before all nations and survives them all, informs us, that there hath been no navy in Europe from the christian aera till the 16th century. The English themselves had no need of it, while they remained in possession of Normandy and of the calls of France. WHEN Henry the Visit wanted to equip a fleet he was obliged to hire vessels from Hamburgh, Lubeck, and Antic; but especially from Genoa and Venice, who alone knew how to confirm and guide a fleet; who sup plied all the sailors and admirals ; who gave to Europe a Columbus, an Americus, a Cabot, a Verezani, those wonderful men who have added so much to the extent of the globe. Elizabeth wanted a naval force against Spain, and permitted her fubjeas to arm Ships to ac against the *enemies of State. This permission formed the military sailors. The queen herself went to see a ship that had,been
O 0 Been round the world; where the embraced Drake, at,, thejtime .benighted him. She left forty-women of,-warto her successors. James.the first and Charles the rft, addedfome ships to the naval forces they had re civet from the throne; but the-commanders this:havy-were chosen from the nobility, who fatisfied:with the ho hours, left-the labours to the pilots; so that the art of navigation received no improvements. THERE were few noblemen in the party that dethroned the Stuartss. Ships of the line were given to captains of ordinary extraction, but of uncommon skill in navigation They improved, and made the British navy illuftri- ,Ous.,WatHEN Charles 11. descended. the throne, 'the king dom was possessed of fix and fifty ships. It increafde.inder his reign, to the number of eighty-three, 'sty-eight of which were lips of the line. Towards the latter days of this prince, it began to decline again. But, his bro ther, James II. retired it to his former lustre,] and raised it even to a greater. degree of splendour. Being himself high admiral before became to the throne,' he had invented the art of regulating the manoeuvres of the feet, by the signals of the flag. Happy, if he had better understood the art of governing a free people! When the prince of Orange, his son-in-law, seized his crown, the t.nglif navy consisted of one hundred and sixty-three vessels of all sizes, armed with seven thousand pieces of cannon, and equipped with forty-two thousand men. This force was doubled during the war that was carried on forth Spanish succession. It hath since increased so much, that the English think they are able alone to balance by their maritime forces the navy of the whole universe. England is now at sea, what Rome formerly,was
was upon-land, when the began-to fall from her great B OO, K. ness. THE English nation considers its navy as the bulwark of its safety, and the source of its riches. It is in peace as in war, the center of gll its hopes. - It raises, there fore, a fleet more willingly, :and with greater expedition than a battalion. It fparesno.-xpence, no political mea surest acquire seamen FIRST the allurements of reward are put in' aion. The parliament in 1744, decreed, that all prizes taken by a man of war, should .belong to the' officers and crew of the conquering flip. They likewise granted an ad:. national gratification of five pounds sterling, to every Englishman who in an engagement, should board, take, or fink an enemy's ship. To the'allurements of profit, the government adds compulsive measures, if they be come necessary. In times of war, they seize upon sailors of the-mercantile navy.- NOTHING is apparently so contradictory to national freedom, as these exertions of authority upon men and commerce at the same time. Yet as these a&s of violence do not take place unless in consequence of the ne effigies of the republic; they cannot be considered as en encroachments upon liberty; because their object is the public safety; which is the particular interest of those who appear to be 'the victims of them; and-because the state of society requires, that the will of each individual should be subservient to the will of the whole communi ty. Betides, the sailors receive the same pay from the government, they would get from the trader, which to tally justifies this compulsive measure; a measure which is-always most advantageous to the slate. The.failor is no longer at the charge of the public, but while he con tenues in its service. The expeditions are by these means,carried
B0 OK carried on with greater secrecy and dispatch; and there's are never idle. In a word, if this were an icon. sentence, it is surely not worse than that perpetual fla very, in which all other European sailors are held the navy is a new kind of power, which must change the face of the globe. It hath defeated the old system of equilibrium. Germany, which held the balance be tween the houses of Austria and. Bourbon,. bath ceded it to England; which island. disposes at present of the continent. As by means of its ships it is in the vicinity of all maritime countries, its power of affixing or doing hurt is extended over a greater number of fates. It has, therefore, a greater number of allies, a higher degree of consideration and influence. It is this island whose empire is established over America; because it hath men and arts in that country instead of gold and the materials of luxury. England is of itself the lever of the uni verse. She occasions the greatest revolutions; and car ries the telling of nations upon her fleets. She is accused of aspiring to be sole mistress of navigation and trade. This empire which she might, perhaps, obtain for a (short time, would occasion her ruin. The universal monarchy of the seas is not a less presumptuous project, than that of the land france is continually exclaiming that there is a nc effigy of establishing an equilibrium of power upon Tea: but the is suspected of being desirous not to have any .masters upon it, in order to have no longer any rivals on the continent, at least, Spain is the only power that has-been hitherto persuaded to join her. It is a happy circumstance for Europe that the maritime forces should cause a diversion to those of the land. Any power that has its own coasts to defend, cannot easily overcome the barriers of its neighbours. For this purpose iminenfc,pre-
preparations are, required; numberless troops; arsenals-Bo O1.' of all kinds; and a double provision of means and re forces, in order to put schemes of conquest into ex action. Since navigation hath prevailed in Europe, it enjoys greater security at home, and a more preponderating influence abroad. Its wars are, perhaps, neither less frequent, nor less bloody; but it Curses less ravage, and is lets weakened by them. The operations are carried on with more harmony, more connection, and there are lets of those great effects that throw all systems into con fusion. There arc more attempts and less mischief. All the various passions of men learned directed towards one general good, one grand political view, one happy em payment of all natural and moral faculties; which is no other than commerce. IF the art of navigation arose from filling, as that ofCcmmnerce war did from the chace; the navy then owes its existence to commerce. The desire of gain first induced us to make voyages; and one world hath been conquered to enrich another. This objet of conquest has been the foundation of commerce; in order to support commerce naval forces have become necessary, which are themselves pro duce by the trading navigation. The Phenicians, si tufted on the borders of the sea at the confines of Asia and Africa, to receive and dispense all the riches of the antient world, founded their colonies and built their ci ties, with no other view but that of commerce. At Tyre, they were the masters of the Mediterranean; at Carthage, they laid the foundations of a republic that traded by the ocean upon the beRt of the European coasts.' The Greeks'fucreeded the Phenicians ; the Romans came after the Carthaginianss and the Greeks; they held the dominion of the sea as well as of the land; but they VOL. IV. H h carried
B. 0 K carried on no other kind of commerce, except that of,.conveying into Italy, for thrown use, all the riches of Africa, Asa, and the conquered world. When Rome had invaded the whole world, and had lost all her ac questions, commerce returned, as it were, to its original source towards the east. There it was established, while the Barbarians over-ran Europe. The empire was divided; the din of arms, and the art of war remained in the well; but Italy preserved, atheist, excommunication with the Levant, where all the treasures of India were circulated. THE Crusades exhausted in Asia all the rage of zeal and ambition, of war and fanaticism, with which the Eu romans were possessed: but they brought back into Eu rope the taste of Asiatic luxury; and redeemed by the commencement of commerce and industry, the blood and the lives they had cost. Three centuries taken up in wars and voyages to the east, gave to the restless spirit of Europe a. recruit it flood in need of; that it might not perish by a fort of internal consumption: they prepared the way for that ebullition of genius and activity, which since arose, and displayed itself in the conquest and trade of the Weft-Indies, and of America. THE Portuguese attempted by degrees to double the African coast. They successively seized upon all the points, and all the ports that muff necessarily lead them to the Cape of Good Hope. They were engaged, for the space of fourscore years, in making themselves masters of all that wether coast, where this great cape terminates In 1497, Vasco de Gama surmounted this bar rier; and re-ascending by the eastern coast of Africa, ar rived by a passage of twelve hundred leagues at. the coast of Malabar, where all the treasures of the richest countries.
tries of Asia were poured in. This was the spot on B 0 0 K,XIX. which the Portuguese made their conquests. WHILE this nation secured the mercantile articles, the Spaniards seized upon that which purchases them, the mines of gold and silver. These metals became not only a vehicle, but also an article of commerce. They im mediately attracted all the rest in this double capacity. All nations were in want of them to facilitate the ex change of their commodities, and obtain the conveniences they flood in need of. The effusion of the luxury and the money of the south of Europe, altered the face and direction of commerce, at the same time that it ex tended its bounds. BUT the two nations that had subdued the East and Wet Indies, neglected the arts and agriculture. Imagining that gold was to give them every thing, without thinking that it is labour alone which brings gold; they learned rather late, and at their own expence, that the industry which they lost, was more valuable than the riches they acquired; and it was from the Dutch that they learned this hard lesson. WITH all the gold in the world, the Spaniards either remained or became poor; the Dutch presently acquired riches, without either lands or mines. Holland is a na tion at the service of all the rest, but who fells her ser vices at a high price. As soon as she had taken refuse in the mill of the sea, with industry and freedom, wlhi h are her tutelary gods, she perceived that the had not a sufficient quantity of land to support the sixth part (cf her inhabitants. She then chore the whole world for her do main, and resolved to enjoy it by her navigation and com mere. She made all lands contribute to her subsistence; and all nations supply her with the conveniences of life. Between the north and the south of Europe, the took the,H h 2 place
B 0 K place of Slanders, from which she had divided, in order xix.,to be concentrated solely in herself. Bruges and Antwerp had attracted Italy and Germany into their ports; Holland in her turn became the simple of all commercial pow hers, rich or poor. Not satisfied with calling together all other nations, fne visited them herself, in order to buy up from one what another wanted; to convey to the north, the merchandise of the south i to sell to the Spa niard ships for cargoes, and to exchange upon the Baltic wine for wood. She imitated the stewards and farmers of large estates, who by the immense profits they make in them, are enabled sooner or later to buy them up. It is at the charges of Spain and Portugal, as it were, that Holland succeeded in taking from those powers part of their conquests in the East and Woes Indies, and almost the whole of the profit of their colonies. She availed herself of the indolence of there proud conquerors; and by their activity and vigilance, got hold of the key of their treasures, leaving them nothing but the chest, which .he took care to empty as fas as they filled it. It is thus that a low kind of people ruined two nations of polite and noble manners i but at the most honest and the most law fil game that can be met with in the several combinations of chance. Every circumstance was favorable to the rise and pro grass of the commerce of the republic. Its position on the borders of the sea, at the mouths of several great ri vers; its proximity to the most fertile or best cultivated lands of Europe: its natural connexions with England and Germany, wbhih defended it against France: the little extent and fertility of its own territory which ob ligcd the inhabitants to become fishermen, tailors, bro hers, bankers, carriers, and commissaries; in a wor', to endeavour to live by industry for want of domain. Mo-oral
rat causes acceded to there of the climate and the fil, in B0 0O K,XIX. establishing and advancing its prosperity. The liberty X of its government, which opened an asylum to all strangers dissatisfied with their own ; the freedom of its religion, which permitted a public and quiet profession of all other faiths; that is to say, the agreement of the call of na ture with that of conscience, of interests with duties; in a word that toleration, that universal religion of all equi table and enlightened minds, friends to heaven and earth, to God, as to their father, to men, as to their brethren. In short, this commercial republic found out the ferret of availing herself of all events, and of making even the calamities and vices of other nations concur in advancing its felicity. It turned to its own advantage the civil wars which fanaticism raised among people of a violent spirit, or which patriotism excited among a free people; the in silence and ignorance maintained by bigotry among two nations subjea to the guidance of the imagination. THIS spirit of industry in Holland, with which was intermixed a considerable share of that political craft which sows the feeds of jealousy and discord among the nations, at length opened the eyes of other powers. The English were the first to perceive that traffic might be carried on without the interposition of the Dutch. England where the attempts of despotism had given birth to liberty, because they were antecedent to corruption and effeminacy, grew desirous of purchasing riches by labour which is the antidote to them. The English first considered commerce as the proper science and support of an enlightened, powerful and even a virtuous people. They considered it rather as an improvement of industry than an acquisition of enjoyments; rather as an encouragement and a source of activity among the people, than a pro mnotcr of luxury and magnificence. Invited to trade by,H h 3 their
B O0 K their situation, this became the spirit of their govern. XIX.,ment, and the means of their ambition. All their schemes tended to this great objet. In other monarchies, trade is carried on by the common people; in this happy con situation by the fate or the whole nation: certainly al ways with the thrill of dominion which implies the desire of enslaving, but with means, at leash, that constitute the happiness of the world before it is subdued. By war, the conqueror is scarce are happy than the conquered because the only concern between them is that of blood: but by commerce, the conquering people necessarily in produce industry into the country, which they would not have conquered if it had not been there already, or which they would not keep, if they had not brought it in along with them. Upon there principles England hath founded her commerce and her empire, and mutually and alter lately extended one by the other. THE French, situated under as favourable a sky, and upon as happy a soil, have for a long time flattered them selves that they had much to bellow upon other nations, and scarce any thing to ask from them. But Colbert was sensible that in the fermentation Europe was in at this tire, there would be an evident gain for the culture and productions of a country that should work upon those of the whole world. He opened manufactures for all the arts. The woollens, the silks, the dyes, the embroideries the gold and filer stuffs, were brought to so high a pitch of refinement in luxury and taste in the hands of the French, that they were in great request among those nobles who were in possession of the grca-eft landed pro party. To increase the produce of the arts, it was ne cesare to get the first materials, and these could only be supplied by direct commerce. The chances of navigation had given France some possessions in the new world,,as
as they had to all the plunderers that had taken to the sea. B O O K The ambition of some individuals had formed colonies XIX. there, which had been at first supported and even aggrandized by the trade of the Dutch and the English. A national navy would of course restore to the mother country this natural connexion with its colonists. The go government, therefore, established its naval forces upon the strength of its commercial navigation. The nation would then necessarily make a double profit upon the materials and the workmanship of the manufactures. The French pushed this precarious and temporary branch with an activity and spirit of emulation which must have left their rivals far behind them for a long time; and they still en joy that superiority over other nations, in all those arts of luxury and ornament which procure riches to in dusty, THE natural volatility of the national character and its turn to trifles, hath brought treasures to the state, by the lucky propagation of their fashions. Like to that light and delicate sex, which teaches and inspires us with a taste for dress, the French reign in all courts, at leat, by the toilet; and their art of pleasing is one of the mysterious sources of their fortune and power. Other nations have mastered the world by those simple and rustic manners, that constitute the warlike virtues; it was given them to reign over it by their vices. Their em pire will last, till they are debased under the feet of their masters by unprincipled and unbounded strokes of authority when they will become contemptible in their own eyes. Then, they will lose, with their confidence in themselves, that industry, which is one of the sources of their opulence and of the springs of their activity. They will soon have neither manufactures, nor colonies, nor trades h 4 This
B O 0 K THIS new principle of the moral world hath insinuated t r .itself by degrees, till it is become, as it were, netcitary,to the existence of political bodies. The tale of luxury and ease hath produced the love of labour, which makes at present tee chief strength of a stare. In reality, the sedentary occupations of the mechanic arts render men more liable to be assessed by the injuries of the seasons, less fit to be exposed to the open air which is the fire nutritive principle of life. But still, it is better that the human race should be enervated under the roofs of the workshops, than inured to hardships under tents ; e- cause war destroys while commerce on the contrary creates. By this useful revolution in manners, the gene rat maxims of politics have altered the face of Europe. A people immersed in poverty can no longer become for amicable to a rich nation, Strength is at present an at tendant on riches, because riches are no longer the fruits of conquest, but the producE of assiduous labour, and of a life spent in unremitted employment. Gold and fisher corrupt only those indolent minds who-indulge in the de lights of luxury, upon that stage of intrigue and mean .less, that is called greatness. But these metals employ the hands and arms of the people; they excite a spirit of agriculture in the fields; of navigation in the maritime cities; and in the center of the !fate they lead to the ma nufacturingof arms, cloathing, furniture, and the con intrusion of buildings. A spirit of emulation exists be tween man and nature: they are perpetually improving each other. The people are formed and fashioned by the arts they profess. If there are same occupations which soften and degrade the human race, there are others by which it is hardened and repaired. If it be true that art renders them unnatural, they do not, at lead, propagate in order to destroy themselves, as among the barbarously
in heroic times. It is certainly an easy and fe B 0 o K during matter, to describe the Romans with the single, art of war, subduing all the other arts, all other nations indolent or commercial, civilized or savage; breaking or despising the vessels of Corinth, more happy with their gods made of clay, than with the golden Statues of their worthless emperors. But it is a more pleating, and per laps, a finer fight, to view all Europe peopled with la various nations, who are continually going round the globe, to cultivate and make it fit for mankind; to see them put in motion by the vivifying breath of industry, all the regenerating powers of nature; seek in the abyss of the ocean, and in the bowels of rocks, for new sup ports, or new enjoyments; stir and raise up the earth with all the mechanic powers invented by genius; establish between the two hemispheres the happy improve ments in the art of navigation, a communication of fly ing bridges, as it were, that re-unite one continent with the other; pursue all the tracks of the fun, overcome the annual barriers, and pass from the tropics to the poles upon the wings of the wind ; in a word, to see them open all the streams of population and pleasure, in order to pour them upon the face of the earth through a thousand channels. It is then, perhaps, that the divinity contemplates his work with satisfaction, and does not repent himself of having made man. SuCH is the image of commerce ; let us now admire the genius of the trader. The same understanding that Newton had to calculate the motion of the stars, he exerts in tracing the motions of the commercial people that fertilize the earth. His problems are the more difficult to resolve, as the circumstances of them are not taken from the immutable laws of nature, as the systems of the geometrician are; but depend upon the caprices,of
B O O Kos men, and uncertainty of a thousand events. That XIX. . 1 . accurate spirit of combination that Cromwell and Riche-lieu muff have Lad, the one to destroy, the other, to establish despotic monarchy; the trader also possesses and carries it further: for he takes in both worlds at one view, and directs his operations upon an infinite variety of relative considerations, which it is seldom given to the' statesman, or even to the philosopher, to comprehend and estimate. Nothing nut escape him, he must foresee the influence of the seasons, upon the plenty, the scarcity, and the quality of provisions; upon the departure or re turn of his Ships; the influence of political affairs upon those of commerce; the changes which war or peace must necessarily occasion in the prices and run of mer chastise, in the quantity and choice of provisions, in the slate of the cities and ports of the whole world ; he muff know the consequences that an alliance of the two northern nations may have under the torrid zone; the progress, either towards aggrandizement or decay of the several trading companies; the counter stroke that the fall of any European power in India, may give to Africa and America; the stagnation that may be produced in certain countries, by the blocking up of Tome channels of industry; the reciprocal connection there is between most branches of trade, and the mutual assistances they lend, by the temporary injuries they seem to inflict upon each other; he muff know the proper time to begin, and when to flop in all new undertakings: in a word, he must know the art of making all other nations tributary to his own, and to make his own fortune with that of his country, or rather to enrich himself by extending the general prosperity of mankind. Such are the objects that the profession of the merchant embraces.,ABOVE
ABOVE all, it is the trader's peculiar business to pry B 0 0 K,XIX. into the depths of the human heart, and to treat with his equals in appearance, as if they were honest, but, in reality, as if they were men of no probity. Commerce is a science that requires at the same time the knowledge of men and things. The difficulty of the science, it muff be acknowledged, is lets owing to the multiplicity of object, than to the rapaciousness of those who pro fess it. If emulation increases a concurrence of efforts, jealousy prevents the success of them. If interest is the vice that destroys professions in general, what muff be its effects upon that profession, which owes its existence to that principle? Its own eagerness destroys it. The third of gain spreads over a commerce a spirit of avarice that contracts every thing, even the means of amassing. ARE merchants to be blamed for that rival flip of go governments which restrains general industry by reciprocal prohibitions; or is the censure to fall on the tyranny of authority, which, in order to acquire gain without the trouble of commerce, confines all the classes of industry by corporations ? Certainly on the latter; for all these societies stifle the very life of commerce, which is liberty. To compel the indigent man to pay for the privilege of working, is to condemn him at once to idleness by indigence and to indigence by idleness; it is to diminish the sum total of national labour; to impoverish the people by enriching the treasury; and to annihilate them both. THE jealousy of trade between states is nothing more than a secret conspiracy to ruin each other, without en rifling one. Those who govern the people, exert the same skill in defending themselves from the industry of the nations, as in preserving themselves from the intrigues of the great. One single mean' and wicked man is able to introduce a hundred restraints into Europe. New,chains
B O O Chains are forged as fast as destructive weapons. Promis ,XIX. nations in commerce, and extortions in the finance, have given rise to smugglers and galley slaves, to customs and monopolies, to pirates and excisemen. Sentinels and ob flashes are placed in all parts of the sea and of the land. The traveller enjoys no quiet, the merchant no property both the one and the other are exposed to all the snares of an insidious legislation, that mingles the offence with the prohibition, and the penalty with the offence. A man becomes culpable without knowing it, or without mean ing to be so: he is arrested, plundered and taxed, though he is all the while innocent. The rights of the people are violated by their protectors; the rights of the ci tien are invaded by the citizen: the courtier is perpetually tormenting the statesman; and the contractor vexes the merchant. Such is the state of commerce in time of peace. But what shall we say of commercial wars r IT is natural enough, that a people pent up in the icy regions of the north, should wrest iron from the earth that refuses them subsistence; and should go sword in hand to reap the harvest of another nation: hunger, which knows no laws, cannot violate any, and seems to plead an excuse for there hostilities. They must necessarily live by carnage, when they have no corn. But, when a nation enjoys the privilege of an extensive com mere, and can furnish to the support of several other states from the superfluity of their own riches; what mo time can induce them to declare war against other industrious nations; to obstruct their navigation and their la hours; in a word, to forbid them to live on pain of death? W Thy do they arrogate to themselves an exclusive branch of trade, a right of fishing and failing, as if it were a matter of property, and as if the sea were to undivided
divided into acres as well as the land ? We can certainly B 0 0 K,XIX. find out the motives of such wars; we know that the XIX. jealousy of commerce is nothing more than h jealousy of power. But have any people the right to'obftruc a work they cannot execute themselves, and to condemn another nation to indolence, because they chuse to devote them selves to it ? How unnatural and contradictory an expression is a war of commerce ! Commerce nourishes, but war de strays. Commerce may, possibly, give rise to war, and keep it up; but war cuts off all the sources of commerce. Whatever one nation may gain upon another in com mere, it is a source of industry and emulation for them both: in war, it turns out to be a mutual loss; for plunder fire and sword neither improve lands, nor enrich mankind. The wars of commerce are so much the more fatal, as by the present influence of the sea over the land, and of Europe over the three other parts of the world, the conflagration becomes general; and that the dissentions of two maritime powers excite the spirit of discord among all their allies, and occasion inactivity even among the neutral powers. COASTS and seas tinged with blood and covered with carcases; the thunders of war reaching from pole to pole, between Africa, Asia and America, as well throughout the Tea that separates us from the new world, as through out the vast extent of the Pacific ocean : such is the spec table exhibited in the two last wars in which all the pow hers of Europe have been alternately shaken, or have distinguished themselves by some great stroke. Nevertheless the earth was depopulated, and commerce did not repair the loss; the lands were exhausted by taxes, and the channels of navigation did not assist the progress of agriculture The loans of the state ruined the fortunes of the,citizens
-OOKcitizens beforehand by usurious profits, the forerunners M. m. of bankruptcy. Even those powers that were victorious bent under the weight of their conquers, and seizing upon a greater extent of land than they could keep or cultivate, involved themselves in the ruin of their enemies. The neutral powers who were desirous of enriching them selves in peace, in the midRl of this commotion received and put up with insults more disgraceful than the defeats of an open war.,How highly absurd are those commercial wars, equally injurious to all the nations concerned, without being ad advantageous to such as are not engaged in them; those wars where the sailors become soldiers, and the merchant sips are turned into privateers; where the traffic between the mother countries and their colonies is interrupted, and the price of their reciprocal commodities is raised !,rWHAT a source of political abuses are thole treaties of commerce which become the feeds of war! Those ex elusive privileges which one nation acquires of another, either for a traffic of luxury, or for the necessaries of life ! A general liberty granted to industry and commerce is the only treaty which a maritime power should enforce at home, or negotiate abroad. A nation that would take this step, would be the benefactor of the human race. The more labour was encouraged upon land, and the greater number of ships there were at sea, so much the more would such a people enjoy the advantages aimed at by negociations and by war. For there will be no in crease of riches in any country, if there be no industry among its neighbours, who can acquire nothing but by articles of exchange, or by the means of gold and silver. But without commerce and industry there can be no me talk, nor manufactures of value; nor can either of these springs of riches exist without liberty. The insolences
of one nation. is prejudicial to all the rest, either by in-B 0 o K creating their labour, or by depriving them of what it i. , ought to produce. The effect of the present system of commerce and industry is the total subversion of order. THE want of the fine fleeces of Spain is retrieved by the flocks of England, and the silk manufactures of Italy are improved even in Germany, the wines Portugal might be improved, were it not for the exclusive privileges granted to a particular company. The high grounds of the north and south would be sufficient to supply Eu rope with wood and metals, and the vales wbuld'of course produce a greater plenty of corn and fruits. Manufactures would be raised in barren countries, if there could be supplied with plenty of the necessaries of life by a free circulation. Whole provinces would not be left uncultivated in the heart of a country in order to fertilize some unwholsome morass, where, while the people are supported by the productions of the land, the influence of the air and the water tends to their destruction. We should not see all the rich produce of commerce confined to particular cities of a large kingdom, as the privileges and fortunes of the whole people are to particular families Circulation would be quicker, and the consumption be increased. Each province would cultivate its favourite production, and each family its own little field. And under every roof there would be one child to spare for the purposes of navigation, and the improvement of the arts. Europe, like China, would swarm with multitudes of industrious peoples-Upon the whole, the freedom of trade would insensibly produce that universal peace which a brave but humane monarch once considered not as merely chimerical. WHILE each man calculated his own advantage, the national system of happiness would be founded on thesis
00 K improvement of reason, which would prove security of,more effectual morals, than the vifionaryideas of superstition There presently disappear as soon as passions ex wert themselves, whilst reason gains strength and advances to maturity along with them. Commerce Commerce, which arises naturally from agriculture returns to it by its propensity and by its circulation: thus, the rivers return to the sea, which has produced them Ey the exhalation of its waters into vapours, and by the fail of those vapours into the waters. The quantity of gold brought by the transportation and consumption of the fruits of the earth, returns again at lat into its bo som, and reproduces all the necessaries of life, and the materials of commerce. If the lands are not cultivated, all commerce is precarious, because it is deprived of its principal fund, which is the productions of nature. Na tions that are only maritime or commercial, enjoy, it is true, the fruits of commerce; but the tree belongs to those people that are skilled in the cultivation of land. Agri culture is, therefore, the chief and real opulence of a slate. This is a circumstance that had escaped the Romans in the intoxication of their conquests, which had given them all the earth without their cultivating it. It was un known to the Barbarians, who, destroying by the sword an empire that had been established by it, abandoned to hares the cultivation of the lands, of which they preserved to themselves the fruits and the property. This point was mistaken also, even in the age subsequent to the discovery of the East and Weft Indies; whether it was that in Eu rope the people were too much engaged in wars of ambition or religion; or, that the conquests made by Portugal and Spain beyond the seas, having brought us treasures without labour, we contented ourselves with enjoy-sing
ing them by luxury and the arts, without thinking of per B 0O K petting there riches. XIX BUT the time came, when plunder ceased for want of an object. When the conquered lands in the new world had been fought for and divided, it became necessary to cultivate them, and to feed the colonies of these fettle ments. As these were Europeans, they cultivated for Europe productions which it did not furnish, and asked in return those provisions which custom had made natural to them. In proportion as the colonies were peopled, and that the number of sailors and manufacturers in creased with the increase of productions, the lands must necessarily furnish a surplus of subsistence for the increase of population; an augmentation of indigenous commo cities, for foreign materials of exchange and consumption The hard labours of navigation, and the corrupt. tion of provisions in the transport, causing a greater loss of materials and produce, the inhabitants were obliged to solicit and stir up the earth to yield her fruits in greater abundance. The consumption of American com modifies, far from lessening that of European productions served only to increase and extend it upon all the seas, in all the ports, and in all the cities where commerce and industry prevailed. Thus the people who were the most commercial, necessarily became at the same time the best cultivators. ENGLAND first conceived the idea of this new system. She established and encouraged it by honours and pre miums proposed to the planters. A medal was struck and presented to the duke of Bedford, with the following inscription, For having planted Oak. Triptolemus and Ceres were adored in antiquity only from similar motives; and yet temples and altars are still ereaed to lazy monks. The God of nature will not sussex that mankind should Vol. IV. I i peril.
B OO peril. He hath implanted in all generous and sublime , fouls, in the hearts of all people and of enlightened mo-monarchs, this idea, that labour is the first duty of man, and that the tost important of all labours is that of cul. treating the land. The eulogium of agriculture is in its own reward, in the satisfying of our wants. If I had a fubjiib who could produce two blades of corn instead of one, said a monarch, I /fhlld prefer hin to all the men of po political genius in relate. What pity is it that such a king and such an opinion are merely the fiction of Swift's brain. But a nation that can produce such writers, muff necessarily verify this beautiful sentence; and accordingly we find that England doubled the produce of its cultivation LED by the example of the English, all other nations that knew the value of industry, brought it back to its true origin and primary destination. After the peace of Aix-la-chapelle, the French, who under the administration of three cardinals, had scarce been allowed to turn their thoughts to public affairs, ventured at length to write on matters of importance, and of evident utility. The undertaking of an universal dictionary of arts and sciences, placed every great object in view, and set all men of understanding at trork. The spirit of laws was published, and the boundaries of genius were extended. Natural history, was written by a French Pliny, who fur passed Greece and Rome in the art of knowing and de scribing nature; this history, bold and great as its sub sect, warmed the imaginations of its readers, and attach ed them powerfully to contemplations, which a nation cannot relinquish, without returning into a state of bar barium. In less than twenty years, the eyes of the French nation were open to their real interests. They communicated their knowledge to government, and agri-culture,
culture, if it was not encouraged by rewards, was, atB 0 OK,XIX. least, patronized by rome ministers. GERMANY hath felt the happy influence of that en lightened spirit which fertilizes the earth and multiplies its inhabitants. All the northern climates have exerted themselves to make the most of their lands. Even Spain has been afcive; and though deficient in natives, has at leaf engaged foreign husbandmen to labour in her un cultivated provinces. IT is a singular and yet a natural circumstance, that men should have returned to' the first of the arts only after having gone through all the rest. It is the common progression of the human mind, not to regain the right path, till after it hath exhausted itself in pursuing false tracks. It is always going forwards; and as it re vanquished agriculture, to follow the road of commerce and luxury, it went rapidly round the circle, and returned at last into the nursery of all the arts, where it fixed its residence, from the same motives of interea that had made it quit it before. Thus the eager and curious man, who banishes himself from his country in his youth, tired with running about the world, returns at last to live and die under his native roof. EvERY thing, indeed, depends upon, and arises from the cultivation of land. It forms the internal strength of states; and draws riches into them from without. Every power which comes from any other source except the land, is artificial and precarious, either in natural or moral philosophy. Industry and commerce which do not as immediately upon the agriculture of a country, are in the power of foreign nations, who may either dispute these advantages through emulation, or deprive' the country of them through envy. I his may be done either by establishing the same branch of industry among them-,i 2 selves,
BO Observes, or by suppressing the exportation of their own . , inwrought materials, or the importation of those ma-materials in manufacture. But a fate well manured, and well cultivated, produces men by the fruits of the earth, and riches by those men. This is not the teeth which the dragon sows to bring forth soldiers to destroy each other, it is the milk of Juno, which peoples the heavens with an innumerable multitude of fiars.,THE government, therefore, owes its support to the countries lather than to the cities. The first are mo tiers and nurses always fruitful; the others are nothing more than daughters often ungrateful and barren. The cities can scarce subsist but from the superfluous part of the population and produce of the countries. Even the fortified places and ports of trade, which seem to be connected with the whole world by their ships, which diffuse more riches than they possess, do not, however, attract all the treasures they dispense, but by the produce of the countries that surround them. The tree, must therefore, be watered at its root. The cities will only be flourishing in proportion as the fields are fruitful. BUT this fertility depends less upon the soil than upon the inhabitants. Spain and even Italy, though situated under a climate the mos favourable to agriculture, pro duce less than France or England; because the efforts of nature are impeded in a thousand ways by the form of their government. In all parts where the people are at tacked to the country by property, by the security of their funds and revenues, the lands will flourish and prosper. In all parts where the privileges are not con fined to the cities, and the labours to the countries, every proprietor will .be fond of the inheritance of his an castors, will increase and embellish it by assiduous cultivation and his children will be multiplied in proportionate
to'his means, and his means be increased in proportion B O O K,xlx. to his children. . IT is, therefore, the interest of government to favour the husbandmen, in preference to all the indolent classes of society. Nobility is but an odious distinction, when not founded upon services of real and unquestionable utility to the state; as for instance, the defence of the nation against the encroachments conquest, and against the enterprizes despotism. The nobles furnish only a pre carious and oftentimes fatal assistance; when after having led an effeminate and licentious life in the cities, they go forth to lend a feeble defence for their country upon her fleets and in her armies, and afterwards return to court, to solicit as a reward for their baseness, places and honours, which are revolting and burthensome tother nation. The clergy are a set of men useless, at least, to the earth, even when they are employed in prayer. But when, with scandalous morals, they preach a doctrine which is ren tered doubly incredible and impracticable from their ignorance and from their example; when, after having disgraced discredited and overturned religion, by a variety of abuses, of sophisms, of 'injustices and usurpations, they wish to diffuse it by persecution ; then this privileged, idle and turbulent set of men, become the most dreadful enemies of the state and of the nation. The only good and referable part of them that remains, is that set of the clergy who are most despised and most burthened with duty, and who being situated among the lower class of people in the country, labour, edify, advise, comfort and relieve a multitude of unhappy persons. THE husbandmen deserve to be preferred by govern ment, even to the manufacturers, and the professors of either the mechanical or liberal arts. To encourage and to protect the arts of luxury, leaving the fields negleced,,I i 3 that
B O O That source of industry which has first erected and supports,. .them, is to forget the order of the several relations be-tween nature and society. To favour the arts and to neglect agriculture, is to remove the basis of a pyramid, in order to finish the top. The mechanical arts engage a sufficient number of hands by the attraction of the riches they procure, by the comforts they supply the work men with, by the ease, pleasures and conveniences that arise in cities where the several branches of industry meet. It is the rustic life that stands in need of encouragement for the hard labours it is exposed to, and of indemnification for the loses and vexations it sustains. The hus bondman is placed at a distance from every objet that can either excite his ambition, or gratify his curiosity. He lives in a flite of separation from the distinctions and pleasures of society. He cannot give his children a polite education, without fending them far from him, nor place them in a road of fortune that may distinguish and ad vance them. He does not enjoy the sacrifices he makes for them, while they are educated at a distance from him. In a word, he undergoes all the troubles that nature brings, without benefiting by its pleasures, unless sup ported by the paternal care of government. Every thing is burdensome and humiliating to him, even the taxes, the very name of which sometimes makes his condition more wretched than any other. MEN are naturally attached to the liberal arts by their particular genius, which makes this attachment grow up into a kind of passion; and likewise by the reputation they reflect on those who distinguish themselves in the pursuit of them. It is not possible to admire the works of genius, without esteeming and caressing the persons endowed with that valuable gift of nature. But.the man devoted to a runic life, unless he enjoys in quietness what,he
he possess, and what he gathers; if he is incapable ofB 0 0 K,XIX. improving the benefits of his condition, because the sweets . of it are taken from him; if the military service, if vas savage and taxes ale to rob him of his son, his cattle, and his grain, nothing remains for him, but to curse both the sky and the land that torment him, and to abandon his fields and his country. A wise government cannot refute to pay its principal attention to agriculture, without delusion to itself: the most ready and effectual means of assisting it, is to favour the multiplication of its produce of every kind, by the most free and unbounded circulation. AN indefinite liberty in the exchange of commodities, renders a people at the same time commercial and attentive to agriculture; it extends the views of the farmer to wards trade, and those of the, merchant towards cultivation It connects them by ties that are regularly kept up. All men belong equally to the villages and to the cities, and there is a reciprocal connexion and communi cation maintained between the provinces. The circulation of commodities brings on really the golden age, in which streams of milk and honey are said to have flowed through the plains. All the lands are cultivated; the meadows are favourable to tillage by the cattle they feed; the growth of corn encourages that of vines, by furnishing a constant and certain subsistence to him who neither sows nor reaps, but plants, prunes and gathers his fruit. LET us now consider the effects of a contrary system, and attempt to regulate agriculture, and the circulation of its produce by particular laws; and let us observe what calamities will ensue. The prying interference of au authority, will not only wish to know every thing that is done, but even impede the doing of it. Men will be led like their cattle, or transported like their corn X they will,1i 4 be
B 0 0 K be collected and dispersed at the nod of a tyrant to be XIX. v. slaughtered in the carnage of war, or to perish to no pur-pose upon fleets, or in different colonies. The life of a fate will become its destruction. Neither the lands, nor the people, will be enabled to prosper, and the states will tend quickly to their dissolution, that is, to that separation which is always preceded by the massacre of the people, as well as their rulers. What then will become of manufactures ? Manual, AGRICULTURE gives birth to the arts, when it has turuI. been carried to that degree of abundance and perfecion,which gives men leisure to fit down, invent, and procure themselves the conveniences of life i and when it has pro duce a population sufficiently numerous to be employed on other labours, besides what are due to the land. Then people must necessarily become either soldiers, navigators or manufacturers. As soon as war has blunted the rudeness and ferocity of a robust nation; as soon as it has nearly circumscribed the extent of an empire, those men who have been exercised in arms, muff then apply themselves to the management of the oar, the ropes, the scissors or the shuttle; in a word, of all the tools of com mere and industry; for the land, which kept so many men without any of their own labour, does not require them to return to the plough. As the arts ever haven country of their own, their peculiar place of refuge, where-they are carried on and flourish in tranquillity, it is easier to repair thither in search of them, than to wait at home till they shall have grown up, and advanced with the tardy progression of ages, and the favour of chance which presides over the discoveries of genius. Thus every nation of Europe that has had any industry, has borrow ed the molt confiderabie hare of the arts from Asia.,Thcre
There invention seems to have been as original as man B 0 0 K,XIX. kind. - . THE beauty and fertility of those climes hath ever en gendered a mols numerous race of people, as well as abundance of fruits of all kinds. There, laws and arts, the offspring of genius and tranquillity; have arisen from the fettled slate of government; and luxury, the parent of every enjoyment that attends industry, has sprung out of the richness of the soil. India, China, Persia and Egypt were in possession not only of all the flores of na ture, but also of the molt brilliant inventions of art. War has frequently obliterated every monument of ge nisus in these parts, but they revive again out of their own ruins, as well as mankind. Not unlike those laborious swarms we see perish in their hives by the wintry blast of the north, and which reproduce themselves in spring; retaining fill the same love of toil and order; there are certain Asiatic nations which have still preserved the arts of luxury with their materials, notwithstanding the in curious and conquests of the Tartars. IT was in a country successively subdued by the Scythian Romans, and Saracens, that the nations of Eu rope, which not even Christianity nor time could civilize, recovered the arts and sciences without searching for them. The Crusades exhausted their fanatic zeal, and threw off their barbarism at Constantinople. It was journeying to visit the tomb of their Saviour, who was born in a manger, and died on a cross, that they acquired a taste for magnificence, pomp, and wealth. By them the Asiatic grandeur was introduced into the courts of Europe. Italy, the feat from whence religion spread her empire over other countries, was the first to adopt a species of industry that was of benefit to her temples, the cere monies of her worship, and those processions which serve,to
B 0 0 Kto keep up devotion by means of the senses, when once,. she has seized on the heart. Christian Rome, after hav-sing borrowed her rites from the Eastern nations, was fRill to draw from thence their support, the splendour of wealth venice, whose gallies were ranged under the banner of liberty, could not fail of being industrious. The people of Italy railed up manufactures, and were a long time in possession of all the arts, even when the conquest of the East and Well Indies had caused the treasures of the whole world to overflow in Europe. Slanders drew her handicrafts from Italy; England hers from Slanders; and France borrowed the general industry of all countries. Of the English she purchased her flocking looms, which work ten times as half as the needle. 'he number of hands unoccupied from the introduction of the loom, were employed in making of lace, which was taken from the Flemings. Paris surpassed Persia in her carpets, and Slanders in her tapestry, in the elegance of her patterns, and the beauty of her dyes and excelled Venice in the *transparency and size of her mirrors. France learned to dispense with part of her Italian silks, and with English broad cloths. Germany has kept, with their iron and copper mines, the superiority in melting, tempering, and working up those metals. But the art of giving the polish and fashion to every article that can be concerned in the ornaments of luxury, and the conveniences of life, seems to belong peculiarly to the French; whether it be that they, in the vanity of pleating others, find the means of succeeding by all the outward appearances of brilliant shew; or that in reality grace and ease are the constant attendants of a people naturally lively and gay, and'who by inftinf are in possession of taste.,EVERY
EvET.y people given to agriculture ought to have arts B 0 o K to employ their materials, and should multiply their pro questions to maintain their artists. Were they acquaint ed only with the labours of the field, their industry mute be confined in its cause, its means, and its effects. Hav ing but few wants and desires, they would exert them selves but little, employ fewer hands, and work less time. Their cultivation would neither be extended nor improved. Should such a people be possessed of more arts than materials, they must fall to the mercy of strangers, who would ruin their manufactures, by finking the price of their articles of luxury, and railing the value of their provisions. But when a people, engaged in agriculture, join industry to property, the culture of their produce to the art of working it up, they have then within them selves every thing necessary for their existence and pre servation, every feed of greatness and prosperity. Such a people is endued with a power of accomplishing every thing they wish, and stimulated with the desire of ac during every thing that is possible. NOTHING is more favourable to liberty than the arts; it is their element, and they are, in their nature, citizens of the world. An able artist may work in every country of the world, because he works for the world in general. Talents fly every where from slavery, while soldiers find slavery in all parts. When, through the want of toleration in the ecclesiastics, the protestants were driven out of France, they opened to themselves a refuge in every civilized state in Europe: but when the jesuits have been banished from their own country, they have found no asylum any where; not even in Italy, the nurse of mo nachilin and intolerance. THE arts multiply the means of acquiring fortune, and contribute by a more ample distribution of wealth to ashore
B 0 0 K more equitable repartition of property. Thus an eric is XX. put to that excessive inequality among men, the unfortunate consequence of oppression, tyranny and stupefaction of a whole people. MANUFACTURES contribute to the advancement of knowledge and of the sciences. The torch of industry serves to enlighten at once a vast horizon. No art is single: the greater part of them have their forms, modes, instruments and elements in common. The mechanics themselves have contributed prodigious to extend the study of mathematics. Every branch of the genealogical tree of science has unfolded itself with the progress of the arts and handicrafts. Mines, mills, cloth-works, dying, have enlarged the sphere of philosophy and natural history. Luxury has given rise to the art of enjoyment, which is entirely dependent on the liberal arts. As soon as ar chitecure admits of ornaments without, it brings with it decorations for the inside of our houses : while sculpture and painting are at the same time at work for the embellishment and adorning of the edifice. The art of design is employed in our dress and furniture. The pen cil, ever fertile in novelty, is varying without end its sketches and shades on our stuffs and our porcelain. The powers of genius are exerted in composing at leisure, mailer-pieces of poetry and eloquence, or those happy systems of policy and philosophy, which before to the people their natural rights; and to sovereigns all their glory, which consists in reigning over the heart and the mind, over the opinion and will of their subject, by the means of reason and equity. THEN it is that the arts produce that spirit of society which constitutes the happiness of civil life, which give; relaxation to the more serious occupations, by entertain ments, shews, concerts, conversations, in short, by every,species
species of agreeable amusement. Ease gives to every vir B O O K tous enjoyment an air of liberty, which sonnets and , mingles the several ranks of men. Business adds a value or a charm to the pleasures that are its recompence. Every.citizen, assured of his subsistence, by the produce of his industry, has leisure for all the agreeable or toilsome occupations ot life, as well as that repose of mind which leads on to the sweets of sleep. Not but avarice makes many victims, but still less than war or religious zeal; the continual scourges of an idle people. NEXT to the cultivation of the land, that of the arts then is most fitted for man. At present both the one and the other make up the strength of civilized governments. If the arts have tended to weaken mankind, then the weaker people must have prevailed over the strong; for the balance of Europe is in the hands of the nations, who are in possession of the arts. SINCE Europe has been overspread with manufactures, the human heart, as well as'the mind, have changed their bent and disposition. The desire of wealth has arisen in all parts from the love of pleasure. We no longer see any people who content to be poor, because poverty is no longer the bulwark of liberty. We are forced, indeed, to confess, that the arts in this world supply the place of vir tues. Industry may produce vices; but, however, it banishes those of idleness, which are a thousand times more dan serous. As information gradually dispels every species of fanaticism, men being employed for the occasions of luxury, do not destroy one another through superstition. At least, human blood is not spilt without some appear. ance of interest; and war, probably, cuts off only those fierce and violent beings that are produced in every flare enemies to and disturbers of all order, without any other talent, any other propensity than that of doing mifciief;,Tha
B O o The arts restrain that spirit of dissention, by fubjeaing,,, man to Rated and daily employments: They bestow on,every rank of life the means and the hopes of enjoy ment, and give even the meanest a kind of estimation and importance by the utility they confer. A workman at forty has been of more real value to the Rate than a whole family of vassals who were employed in tillage under the old feudal system. An opulent manufacture brings more benefit into a village than twenty castles of antient ba sons, whether hunters or warriors, ever conferred on their province. IF it be a fa, that in the present fate of things those who are the most industrious, ought to be the most hap py and the most powerful people, either because, in wars that are unavoidable, they furnish of themselves, or pur chafe by their wealth, more soldiers, more ammunition, more forces, both for sea or land service; or that, hav ing a greater interest in maintaining peace, they escape broils, or terminate them by negociation ; or that, in case of a defeat, they more readily repair their losses by dint of labour; or that they are happy in the enjoyments of a more mild, and more enlightened government, notwithstanding the means of corruption and slavery that tyranny is supplied with by the effeminacy which luxury pro duces; in a word, if the arts really civilize nations, a state ought to neglect no opportunity of making manu secures sourish.,THis circumstance depends on the climate, which, as Polybius says, forms the figure, complexion and manners of nations. The most temperate climate muff necessarily be the most favourable to that kind of industry, which is of a sedentary cast. If the climate is too hot, it is in consistent with the establishment of manufactures, which require the concourse of several persons together to carry,or
on the same work; and excludes all those arts which te B 0 0 K,XIX. quire furnaces, or strong lights. If the climate prove . too cold, it is not proper for those arts which can only be carried on in the open air. At two great or too small a distance from the equator, man is unfit for several la hours, which seem peculiarly adapted to a mild tempera ture. In vain did Peter the Great go to search among the best regulated states for such arts as could humanize his country: during a period of fifty years, not one of all those principles has been able to take root among the frozen regions of Russia. All artists are strangers in that land, and if they think of taking up their residence there, their talents and their works soon die along with them. When Lewis the X[Vth, in his old age, as if that was the time of life for proscription, persecuted the protest ants, it was to no purpose that they introduced their arts and trades among the people who received them; they were no longer able to work in the same manner as they had done in France. Though they were equally active and laborious, their art pined or decayed, for want of being warmed or lighted up by the same rays of the fun. To the favourable disposition of climate, for the en encouragement of manufactures, should be united the ad vantage of the political situation of the fate. When it is of such extent as to have nothing to fear or covet in point of security: when it is in the neighbourhood of the sea for the landing of materials, and the vent of what is worked up: when it is situated between powers who have iron mines to employ its industry, and others that have mines of gold to reward it: when it has nations on each side with ports and roads open on every quarter; such a state will have all the external advantages necessary to excited people to open a variety of manufactures.,BUT
BO K BUT one advantage still more essential is fertility of . f, soil. If cultivation requires too many hands, workmen cannot be supplied, or the workshop will depopulate the fields; whence it muff happen that the dearness of pro visions, while it raises the price of workmanship, will also diminish the number of handicrafts. ' WHERE fertility of soil is wanting, manufactures re quire, at least, frugality. A nation that should expend much on its mere subsistence would absorb the whole pro fits of its industry. If indulgence either exceeds the pace or degree of labour, it is loft at its very source; it wi tiers and dries up the trunk that is to convey sap to it. If the workman will feed and clothe himself like the manufacturer who employs him, the manufacture is soon ruined. The degree of frugality that republican nations adhere to from motives of virtue, the manufacturer ought to observe from views of parsimony. This may be the reason, perhaps, that the arts, even those of luxury, are more adapted to republics than monarchies; for under monarchical inflitutions, poverty is not always the sharpest spur with the people to industry. Labour, proceeding from hunger is narrow and confined like the appetite it springs from; but the work that arises from ambition spreads and increases as naturally as the vice itself. NATIONAL character has much influence over the progress of the arts relative to luxury and ornament. A particular people is fitted for invention by that levity which naturally inclines them to novelty. The same nation is fitted for the arts, by their vanity, which in lines them to the ornament of dress. Another nation less lively, has less taste for trivial matters, and is not fond of changing fashions. Being of a more serious turn they are more inclined to the debauches the table ad to intoxication that frees them at once from all their,enemies.
enemies. Of these nations, the one mus succeed better BO OK' than its rival in the arts of decoration, and muff have . the preference over it among all the other nations which are fond of the same arts. THE advantages which manufactures derive from na ture, arc further seconded by the form of government. While industry is favourable to national liberty, that in return should afllfi industry. Exclusive privileges are enemies to commerce and the arts, which are to be en courage only by competition. Even the rights of ap apprenticeship, and the value set on corporations, are a kind of monopoly. The fate is prejudiced by that fort of privilege, which favours incorporated trades that is, petty communities are protected at the expence of the greater body. By taking from the lower class of the people the liberty of choosing the profession that suits them, every profession is filled with bad workmen. Such as require greater talents are exercised by those who have the moi money ; the meaner, and less expensive, fall often to the share of men born to excel in a distinguished art. Employed in a way for which they have no taste, both the one and the other neglect their work, and prejudice the art: the.firfl, because they are beneath it; the latter, because they are convinced of their being above it. But if we remove the impediment of corporate bodies, we shall produce a rivalfhip in the workmen, and consequently abundance and perfection in the work. IT may be a question, whether it be beneficial to col lea manufactures in large towns, or to disperse them over the country. This point is determined by facts. The arts of primary necessity have remained where they were first produced, in those places which have fur nailed the materials. Forges are in the neighbourhood of the mine-and linen near the flax. But the complicated VOL. IV. K k arts
B O 0 Parts of industry and luxury cannot be inhabitants of the xIx. ' country. If we disperse over a large extent of territorial the arts, which are combined in watch and clock making, we shall ruin Geneva with all the works that support it. The perfection of stuffs requires their being made his a town, where fine dyes may at once be united with beautiful patterns, and the art of working up woollens and silks with that of making gold and silver lace. If there are wanting eighteen hands to make a pin, through how many handicrafts, how many artificers muff a laced coat, or an embroidered waistcoat pass How Shall we be able to find amidst an interior central province the immense apparatus of arts that con tribute to the furnishing of a palace, or the festal enter attainments of a court. We muff confine then, or rather retain in the country, such innocent and simple arts as flourish unconnected with others; and work, up in the provinces the common cloths for cloathing the populace. We muff establish between the capital and the other towns a reciprocal dependence of wants and conveniences, of materials and works; but fill nothing muff be done by authority or compulsion, workmen muff be left to a& for themselves. Let there be freedom of traffic, and free dom of industry ; and manufactures will prosper, population will increase. Populations the world been more peopled at one time than on. another ? This is not to be known from history; because half the habited globe has had no historians, and half history is full of falsities. Who has ever taken or could at any time take an account of the inhabitants of the earth ? She was, it is said, more fruitful in her younger days. But where is that golden age ? Is it when a dry sand arises from the bed of the sea, and comes to purge it fL;f in the rays of the fun; is it then that the slime produces,ve-
vegetables, animals and human creatures ? But the whole B O O K surface of the earth must alternately have been covered by XX. the ocean. The earth has then always had, like the individuals of every species, an infant slate, a state of weakness and sterility before she arrived at the age of fecundity. All countries have been for a long time buried under water, laying uncultivated beneath sands and morasses, wild and overgrown with bushes and forests, till the human species, being thrown by accident on these deserts and solitudes, has cleared, altered and peopled the land. But as all the causes of population are subordinate to those natural laws which govern the universe, as well as to the influences of soil and atmosphere, which are sub jet to a number of calamities, it muff ever have varied with those periods of nature that have been either advert or favourable to the increase of mankind. However, as the lot of every species seems in a manner to depend on its faculties, it is in the history of the unfolding of human industry that we must search in general for the history of the population of the earth. On this ground of calculation, it is, at least doubtful, whether the world was formerly better. inhabited and more peopled than at presentable US leave Asia under the veil of that antiquity which reports it to us ever covered with innumerable na tions, and swarms of people so prodigious that (notwithstanding the fertility of a soil which finds in need but of one ray of the fun to enable it to produce all forts of fruits) men did but jus make their appearance, succeeding one another in their generations, like torrents, and were swallowed up either by famine, pestilence or war. Let us dwell some time on the subject of Europe, which seems to have taken the place of Asia, by conferring upon art all the power of nature.,Kk IN
B 0 K IN order to decide whether our continent was, of old, , . more inhabited than in our times, it is sufficient to examine, whether it was then more cultivated. Do any traces remain among us of plantations that have been abandoned i What coast is there where men could land, what country that was accessible that is at present without inhabitants ? If discoveries are made of the ruins of old towns, it is beneath the foundations of cities as large as the former. But should even Italy and Spain have fallen off from their ancient population, to what a degree are not the other states of Europe increased in the number of their inhabitants ? What were those multitudes of people which Cefar reckoned up in Gaul, but a fort of savage na tions more formidable in name than in number ? All those Britain, who were subdued in their island by two Ro man legions, were they much more numerous than the Corsicans at present? Germany, indeed, as it should seem, must have been extremely well peopled, as she alone brought into subjection, in the compass of two or three centuries, the finest moiety of Europe. But we mrs observe, these were the people of a territory ten tiniest as large who possessed themselves of a country flocked by three or four nations; and that it was not owing to the number of her conquerors, but to the re volt of her fubjefs, that the Roman empire was de strayed and reduced to subjection. In this astonishing revolution, we may readily admit that the victorious na tions did not amount to one twentieth part of those that were conquered; because the former made their attacks with half their numbers of real people, and the latter employed no more than the hundredth part of their effective inhabitants in their defence. But a people, who fight entirely for themselves, are more powerful than ten armies railed by kings and princes.,BESIDES,
BESIDES, those long and bloody wars, of which an B O K,XIX. cent history is full, are destructive of that excessive po pulsation they seem to prove; If on the one hand the Romans took pains to repair at home the losses their victories made in their forces, the very spirit of conquest which possessed them, consumed, at least, other nations; for no sooner had they made the conquest of any people than they incorporated them into their own armies, and undermined their strength in a double proportion, as much by recruits as by tribute. It is well known with what rage wars were carried on by the ancients: that often in a siege, the whole town was laid in asses; men, women and children perished in the flames rather than fall under the dominion of the conqueror; that in as faults, every inhabitant was put to the [word; that in regular engagements, every one was better pleased to die, sword in hand, than to be led in triumph, and be con denned to perpetual slavery. Were not these barbarous customs of war injurious to population ? If, as we must allow, rome victims were saved by slavery, this was but of little service to. the increase of mankind, as it established in a state an extreme inequality of condition among beings by nature equal. If the division of so cities into [mall colonies or states was adapted to multiply families by the partition of lands; it likewise often occasioned reciprocal quarrels among the nations; and as these frnall states touched one another, as it were, in an infinite number of points, in order to defend them, every inhabitant was obliged to take up arms. It is owing to their size that large bodies resist motion; small bodies are in a per petal agitation, which latter them to' pieces. IF war was destructive of population in antient times, it was not always peace that could restore it. Formerly, all nations were ruled by despotic or aristocratic power,,Kk 3 and
B O O K and there two forms of government are by no means pro-piteous to the increase of the human species. The free cities of Greece were guided by laws so complicated, that there were continual dissentions among the citizens. Even the populace, who had no right cf suffrage, did not fail to give the law in the public meetings, where a man of ta lents with his eloquence was enabled to set so many per sons in commotion. Besides, in these States population tended to concentrate itself within the city, in conjunction with ambition, power, riches, and in short all the effets and springs of liberty. Not but that the lands under the democratical states must have been well cultivated and well peopled. But the democracies were few; and as they all had ambitious views, and had no other means of increasing their grandeur besides war, except only Athens, whose commerce, indeed, was also owing to the force of arms, the earth could not long flourish, and produce population. In a word, Greece and Italy were at least the only countries better peopled than they are at present except in Greece, which repelled, restrained, and subdued Asia; except in Carthage, which appeared on the borders of Africa, and soon sank again into nothing; except in Rome, which brought into subjection and de flowed the known world; where do we find a State of population that bears any comparison with what a travel her meets with at this day on every ea coast, along all the great rivers, and on the roads to capital cities. What vast forests are turned to tillage; what harvests are waving in the place of reeds that covered marshy grounds r- What numbers of civilized people, who subsist on dried fib, and salted provisions ?sin the police, in the morals, and in the politics of the moderns we may discern many causes of propagation that,did
did not exist among the antients : but at the same time we B 0 0 K observe likewise some inconveniences which may hinder X . or diminish among us that fort of progress, which, in our species, should be molt conducive to its being railed to the height of perfection. For men will never be more numerous, unless they are more happy. POPULATION depends in a great measure on the distribution of landed property. Families multiply in the same manner as their possessions, and when they are too large, the exorbitance of them always flops the increase A man of large property, working only for himself, sets apart one half of his lands for his income, and the other for his pleasures. All he appropriates to hunting is a double loss in point of cultivation, for he breeds cattle on the land that should belong to men, instead of subsisting men on the land which belongs to animals. Wood is necessary in a country for repairs and fewel: but is there any occasion for so many avenues in a park or for par terres, and kitchen gardens of such a size as belong to a large house ? In this case, does luxury, which in its mag munificence affords sustenance to the arts, prove as favourable to the increase of mankind, as it might by employing the land to better purposes ? Too many large estates, there fore, and too few small ones; this is the first impediment to population. THE next obstacle, is the unalienable domains of the clergy: when so much property remains for ever in the same hands, how shall population flourish, when it owes its birth singly to the improvement of lands by the in crease of shares among real proprietors. What interest has the incumbent to add a value to an estate he is not to transmit to any successor, to low or plant for a posterity not derived from himself. Far from diminishing his in come to improve his lands, will he not rather risque the,K k 4 impairing
B3 OK impairing of his living, in order to increase the rents a ' . which he is to enjoy only for life ?the entails of estates in noble families are not less pre judicial to the propagation of the species. They lessen at once both the nobility and the other ranks of people. Just as primogeniture sacrifices the younger children to the interest of the elder branch; entails destroy several families for the fake of a single one. Almost all entailed estates fail in their culture by the negligence of a pro praetor who is not attached to a possession he is not to dispose of, which has been ceded to him only with regret, and which is already given to his successors, who are not to be his heirs, because they're not named by him. The right of primogeniture, and entail, is then a law, one may say, made on purpose to defeat the increase of po pulsation in any slate. FROM the two first obstacles to population produced by the defect-of legislation, there arises a third, which is the poverty of the people. Wherever the farmers have not the property of the ground-rent their life is miserable, and their condition precarious. Not being certain of their subsistence, which depends on their health, having but small reliance on their strength, which they are obliged to sell, and cursing the day of their birth, they are afraid of breeding a race of wretched beings. It is a mistake to think that plenty of children are produced in the country, when there die as many, if not more, than are born every year. The toil of the father, and the milk of the mo ther are lost to them, and to their children; for they will never come to the prime of life, to that state of ma purity which by its produce is to recompence all the pains of bringing them up. With a fmaii portion of land, the mother might bring up her child, and cultivate her own little garden, while the father at the expence of his la-,bour
hour abroad, might improve the conveniences of the fa B 0 0 K,XIX. mile. Not having any property there three beings pine - -. from the smallness of the gains of the single person, or the child perishes from the toils of the mother. WHAT evils arise from a faulty or defective legislation ? Calamities are abundant, they are multiplied only to de troy the whole, and grow one out of another, till the system is totally annihilated. The indigence of the country produces an increase of troops, a burden ruinous in its nature, destructive of men in time of war, and of land in time of peace. It is certain that the military are the ruin of lands they do not assist in cultivating; because every soldier deprives the public of a labourer, and bur tiens it with an idle or useless consumer. He defends the country in time of peace, merely from a pernicious system, which under the pretext of defence makes all nations ag resort. If all governments would, as they easily might, leave to assisi in cultivation the hands they rob it of by an army, population in a short time would considerably in crease the number of labourers and artists throughout Eu rope. All the powers of human industry would be ex erred in improving the advantages of nature, and in get ting the better of her difficulties; every thing would con cur in promoting existence, not in spreading destruction. THE deserts of Russia would be cleared, and the plains of Poland not laid wife. The vast dominions of the Turks, would be cultivated, and the blessing of their pro poet would spread itself over an immense system of po pulsation. Egypt, Syria, and Palestine would again be come what they were in the times of the Phenicians, in the days of their shepherd kings, and of the Jews who enjoyed happiness and peace under their judges. The parched mountains of Sierra Modena would be rendered,fertile,
1 0 O K fertile, the heaths of Aquitain would be cleared of in XIX,ftefi and be covered with people. BuT general good is merely the delusive dream of be benevolent persons. This brings to my remembrance the virtuous prelate of Camera, and the good Abbe of St. Pierre. Their works are composed for the peopling of wildernesses, not with hermits who fly from the vices and misfortunes of the world, but with happy families, who would proclaim the glory of God upon earth, as the fears declare it in the firmament. It is in their writings that life and humanity are to be found, in their writings, which are truly inspired; for humanity is the gift of heaven. Kings will insure the attachment of their people, in pro portion as they themselves are attached to such men. NEED it be mentioned that one of the means to favour population is to suppress the celibacy of the regular and secular clergy. Monastic inflitutions have a reference to two eras remarkable in the history of the world. About, the year 700 of Rome, a new religion sprang up in the east with the Messiah, and with Paganism the Roman empire quickly decayed. Two or three hundred years after the death of the Messiah, Egypt and Palestine were filled with Monks. About the year 700 of the christian ara, a new religion appeared in the half, with Mahomet, and christianity turned into Europe, in order to fettle it self there. Three or four hundred years afterwards, there arose swarms of religious orders. At the time of the birth of Christ, the books of David and those of the Sybil announced the downfal of the world, a deluge or an universal conflagration, the judgment of mankind: and all the world, oppressed by the dominion of the Romans, willed and believed in a general dissolution. A thousand years after the christian era, the books of David and those of the Sybil still announced the last judgment: and fe-venal
vernal penitents, as ferocious and wild in their extravagant B 0 O K,XIX. piety as in their fins, sold all their possessions to go to , conquer and die upon the tomb of their redeemer. The nations groaning under the tyranny of the feudal govern ment wished for and fill believed in the end of the world. WHILE one part of the christian world, struck with terror, went to perish in the Crusades, another part were burying themselves in cloisters. This was the origin of the monastic life in Europe. Opinion created monks, opinion will destroy them. Their property will remain behind them in society for the production of families: and all those hours, that are lost in praying without de motion, will be dedicated to their primitive intention, which is labour. The clergy are to remember that in the sacred scriptures, God says to man in innocence, increase and multiply: to man in fin, labour and toil. If the duties of the priesthood seem to forbid the priest having the charge of a family, and of an estate, the duties of society more loudly proscribe celibacy. If the monks of old times cleared the deserts they inhabited; they now contribute to depopulate the towns where they swarm: if the clergy has subsisted on the alms of the people, they in their turn reduce the people to beggary. Among the idle classes of society, the most prejudicial is that, which, on its own principles, must lead men to.idleneCs i which wastes at the altar as well the work of the bees, as the salary of the workmen; which burns in day-time the candles of the night, and makes men lose in the church that time they owe to the care of their household, which engages men to ask of heaven the subsistence that the ground only can give, or produce in return for their toil.,Tabs or'
BOO K THERE is-fill another cause of the depopulation of i , .some fates; which is, that want of toleration which persecutes and proscribes every religion but that of the prince on the throne. It is a species of oppression and tyranny peculiar to modern politics to extend its influence even over mens thoughts and consciences: it is a cruel kind of piety, which, for the fake of exterior forms of worship, derogates, in some measure, from the Deity himself, by defining multitudes of his worshippers: it is an im piety fill more barbarous, that for matters so indifferent as religious ceremonies nut appear, defeats a thing so essential as the life of man, and the population of fates ought to be. For neither the number nor the allegiance of fubjeas is increased by exalting oaths contrary to conscience, by forcing into secret perjury those who are engaged in the marriage ties, or in the different professions of a citizen. Unity in religion is proper only when it is naturally established by condition. As soon as that ceases, one way to set mens minds at rest, is to leave them at liberty. When conviction is equal, complete and entire, with regard to every citizen, it can never give any disturbance to the peace of families. NEXT to the celibacy among the ecclesiastics and that among the military, the one from profession, the other from custom, there is a third, of convenience, introduced by luxury. I mean that of life annuitants. Here we may admire the chain of causes. At the same time that com mere favours population through industry by lind and sea, by means of all the objets and operations of navigation and by the several arts of cultivation and manu faaurcs, it lessens that same population by means of all the vices which luxury introduces. When riches have gained the ascendent over the minds of men, then opinions and manners alter by the intermixture of ranks.,The
The arts and the talents of pleasing corrupt focicty,B 0 0 K while they polish it. When the intercourse between the . sexes becomes frequents they mutually seduce one another and the weaker leads away the more strong in the frivolous turn for dress and amusement. The women become childish and the men effeminate. Entertainments are the Cole sujet of their talk, and the object of their occupation. The manly and robust exercises which disciplined the youth and trained them for the important and hazardous professions, give place to the love of public thews, where every passion that can render a nation effeminate is caught, so long as the patriotic spirit is wanting Indolence gains among the ranks that need not work, and among thole that should, less business is done. The improvement of arts multiplies fashions, these increase our expences articles of luxury become wants, superfluity takes the place of the needful, and people dress better, but do not live so well; and purchase clothes at the expence of the necessaries of life. The lower class of men grow ac quaint with debauchery before they are with love, and marrying later, have fewer or weaker children: the tradefmanlooks out for a fortune not a wise, and before hand deprives himself of both by his libertinism. The rich, married or not, go on continually seducing women of every condition, or debauching poor girls. The difficulty of (supporting the charges of marriage, and the rea dines of finding the joys of it without bearing any of its disagreeable inconveniencies, tends to increase the number of unmarried people in every class. The man, who gives up being the father of a family, spends his pa matrimony, and in concert with the slate which doubles his yearly income, by borrowing of him at a ruinous interest he melts several generations into one: he extinguishes posterity as much in the married women, by,whom
BoO K whom he is rewarded, as in the girls whom he hires. , . Every kind of prostitution is drawn on at once. Ho-,nour and duty is forfeited in every rank; the ruin of the women is but the forerunner of that of the men.,THE nation that is inclined to gallantry, or rather to libertinism, is not long before it is undone abroad, as well as subdued at home. There is no longer any no ability, no longer any body of men to defend their own or the people's rights; for every where division and self interest prevails. No one withes to be ruined alone. The love of riches being the only allurement, the honest man is apprehensive of losing his fortune, 'and the man of no honour is intent upon making his: the one retires, the other sets himself up to sale, and the slate is ruined. Such are infallibly the steps commerce takes in its pro griefs under a monarchy. What its effets are ir a re public we know from antient history. But still it is ne cellar at this time to lead men to commerce, because the present situation of Europe is favourable to it, and com mere itself is favourable to population but it will be acted whether a great degree of population is of use to promote the happiness of mankind. This is an idle question. In fa, the point is not to multiply men, in order to make them happy; but it is sufficient to make them happy, that they should multiply. All the means which concur in the prosperity of any slate, tend of themselves to the propagation of its people. A legislator who should desire people only to have soldiers, and subject only for the purpose of subduing his neigh hours, would be a monster, and an enemy to the human race, since he would create merely with a view to destroy. A legislator, on the contrary, who like Solon, should form a republic, whore multitudes might go and people the desert coasts of the sea; or who like Penn, should,make
make laws for the cultivation of his colony, and forbid B O O K war, such a legislator would undoubtedly be considered XIX. as a God on earth. Even though his name should not be immortalized, he would live in happiness, and die con tented, especially if he could be certain of leaving behind him laws of such wisdom as to free his people for ever from the vexation of taxes. A tax may be defined, a sacrifice of one part of one's Taxes. property for the preservation of the other: from hence it follows, that there Should not be any tax either among people in a state of slavery, or among ravages: for the former have no longer any property, and the latter have not yet acquired any. BUT when a nation enjoys any large and valuable pro party, when its fortune is sufficiently established, and is considerable enough to require expences of government, when it has possessions, trade, and wealth 'capable of tempting the cupidity of its neighbours who may be poor or ambitious; then, in order to guard its frontiers, or its provinces, to protect its navigation, and keep up its police, there is a necessity for forces and for a revenue. It is butjuft and indispensable, that the persons who are employed in any manner for the public good, should be maintained by all the other orders of the confederate so city. THERE have been countries and times, in which a portion of the territory has been assigned for the public expences of the body of the state. The government not being enabled of itself to turn such extensive possessions to advantage, was forced to entrust this charge to administrators who either neglected the revenues, or appropriated them to their own use. This practice brought on frill greater inconveniencies. Either the royal domains were too considerable in time of peace, or insufficient forth
B O O The calls of war. In the first instance, the liberty of the, ft'ate'was oppressed by the ruler of it, and in'the latter, by - - "rangers. It has, therefore, been found necessary to havc,rcourfe to the contributions of the citizens. THESE funds were in early times not considerable. The tribute consisted merely in a reimbursement given by the public to those persons whom public concerns diverted from the employments and cares essential to their sub science. Their reward was found in that delicious enjoy ment we experience in the inward feelings of our own virtue, and upon a view of the respect paid it by other men. These moral riches were the greatest treasures of rising societies; they were a kind of coin which it as much concerned the order of government, as that of mo reality, not to deface honour held the place of taxes no lets in the flourishing periods of Greece, than in the infant slate of foci ties. The patriot who served his country, did not think he had any right to destroy it. The impost, laid on' by Aristides on all Greece, for the support of the war against Persia, was so moderate, that those who were to contribute of themselves, called it the happy fortune of Greece! What times were these, and what a country, in which taxes made the happiness of the people ! THE Romans proceeded to dominion a'mott without any assistance from the public flock. The love of wealth would have diverted them from the conquest of the world. The public service was carried on without any interested' views, even after their manners had been corrupted. UNDER the feudal government, there were no taxes, for on what could they have been levied ? The man, and the land were both the property of the Lord. It was both. a real and a personal fcrvitude.,WHEN
WHEN light began to dawn on Europe, the nations B 0 O K,XIX. turned their thoughts towards their own security. They. - - . voluntarily furnished contributions to repress foreign and domestic enemies. But those tributes were moderate, be cause princes were not yet absolute enough to divert them to the purposes of their own capricious humours, or to the advantage of their ambition. THE new world was discovered, and the passion for conquest seized upon every nation. That spirit of ag aggrandizement was not to be reconciled with the slowness of popular assemblies; and sovereigns succeeded without much trouble in appropriating to themselves more rights than they had ever enjoyed. The imposition of taxes was the most important of their usurpations, and it is that whose confequences.have been the most pernicious. PRINCES have ventured even to stamp the marks of servitude upon the people's brows, by levying a poll-tax. Independent of the humiliation it brings with it, can any thing be more arbitrary-than such a tax ? Is the tax to be levied upon voluntary information But this would require between the monarch and his sub seas a moral conscience which should unite them by a mutual love of the general good ; or, at least, a public conscience to inspire the one with confidence in the other, by a sincere and reciprocal communication of their in intelligence, and of their sentiments. Even then, how is this public conscience to be fettled, which is to serve as a torch, a guide and a rein to determine and regulate the operations of government ? Is the january of families, or the closet of the citizen to be invaded, in order to gain by surprise, and bring to light what he does not chuse to reveal, what it is often of importance to him not to discover. What an inquisition ! What offensive violence ! Though vc should even,VOL. IV. L 1 arrive
B 0 0 K-arrive at the knowledge of the resources of every individualism they not vary from one year to another with the uncertain and precarious productions of industry ? Are they not lessened by the increase of children, by the. decay of strength through sickness, by age, and by laborious oc occupations. The very faculties of the human species, that are of use and promote labour, do they not change with those vicissitudes brought by time on all things that depend on nature and fortune? The personal tax is a vexation then to the individual without common benefit. A poll-tax is a fort of slavery, oppressive to the man, with out being profitable to the slate. AFTER having suffered this tax, which is a proof of despotism, or which leads to it sooner or later, imposts were then laid upon articles of consumption. Sovereigns have offered to consider this new tribute as in some mea sure voluntary, because it rises-in proportion to the ex pence of the subject, which he is at liberty to increase or diminish according to his abilities, or his propensities, which are for the most part factitious but if taxation asses the commodities which are of immediate necessity, it is the height of cruelty. Previous to all the laws of society, man had a right to subsist. And is he to lose that right by the establishment of laws ? To sell the productions of the earth to the people at a dear rate, is to rob them of them: it is to attack the very principle of their existence, to take from them, by a tax, the natural means of preserving it. By extorting the subsistence of the needy, the slate takes from him his strength with his food. It reduces the poor man to a slate of beggary; and the working man to that of idleness ; it makes the unfortunate man, a rogue; that is, it brings the hungry man to the gallows through excess of misery.,Is
IF the imposts affect commodities less necessary: how 0 O K many hands lost to tillage and the arts are employed not in guarding the bulwarks of the empire, but in crowding the kingdom with an infinite number of unimportant barriers; in embarrassing the gates of towns; infesting the highways and roads of commerce; and searching into cellars, granaries, and storehouses ! What a state of war between prince and people, between subject and fubje ! How many prisons, gallies and gibbets for a swarm of wretches who have been urged on to fraud, to smug going, and even to piracy by the iniquity of the revenue laws ! THE greediness of sovereigns has extended from the articles of consumption to those of traffic carried on from one state to another. Insatiable tyrants ! Will ye never underhand that if ye lay duties on what ye offer to the stranger, he will buy it at a cheaper rate, he will give only the price demanded by other states: if even your own fubjeis were the sole proprietors of that pro duce you have taxed, they still would never give the law; for in that case the demand would be for a less quantity, and the overplus would oblige them to lower the price, in order to find a vent for it. Tót duty on merchandise your government receives from its neighbours, does not stand on a more reasonable footing. The price of the goods being regulated by the competition of other countries, the duties will be paid by your fubjeas alone. Possibly, the-raising the price of foreign produce may diminish the consumption of it. But if a less quantity of merchandise is sold to you, a less quantity will be purchased of you. Trade yields but in proportion to-what it receives. It is in fat nothing more than an exchange of value for value. It is not possible then for you to oppose the current of these exchanges,,L 1 2 without
B'i dO-without lowering the value of your ownprodu&ions, by - . checking the sale of them whether you lay duties on your own or on foreign merchandise, the industry of your fubjeas will necessarily sussex by it. The means of payment will be fewer, and they will have less raw materials to work up. The great er the diminution there is on the reproduction annually, the more' the sum total of their labour will also be de creased. Then all the laws you can make againftlbeg- gars will be ineffectual, for man muff live on what is given him, if he cannot live by what he earns but what then is the mode of taxation the mot pro per to conciliate the public interest with the rights of in individuals ? It is the land-tax. An impost is with'refpea to the person upon whom it is charged, an annual ex pence. It can only, therefore, be assessed oh-in annual revenue; for nothing but an annual revenue can discharge an annual expence. Now there never can be any annual revenue, except that of the land. It is land only which replaces yearly what has been advanced upon it, with an overplus left to our disposal. It is home time since we have begun to be sensible of this important truth. Some men of found understanding will one day reduce it to a demonstration: and the first government that makes this the foundation of their system, will of course be raised to a degree of prosperity unknown to all nations arid all ages perhaps, there is no slate in Europe at present whose situation admits of so great a change. The taxes are every where so heavy, the expences so multiplied, the wants so pressing; the public flock is so much indebted every where, that a sudden revolution in the raising of the public revenues, would infallibly alter the confidence and disturb the peace of the subject. But an enlightened and,provident
provident policy, will tend by flow and gradual steps to B 0 0 K,XIX. wards so salutary an end. With courage and prudence the will remove every obstacle that prejudice, ignorance, and private interest might have to oppose to a system of administration, the advantages of which appear to us be yond all calculation. IN order that nothing may lessen the benefits of this happy innovation, it will be necessary that all lands with out distinction should be subjected to taxation. The pub hic weal is a treasure in common, wherein every individual should deposit his tribute, his service, and his abilities Names and titles will never change the nature of men and their possessions. It would be the utmost mean ness and folly to avail ourselves of distinctions received from our ancestors, in order to withdraw ourselves from the burthens of society. Every preeminence not turned to the general advantage, would be mischievous, it can not be equitable but Co far as it forms a settled engage ment to devote in a more especial manner our lives and fortunes to the service of our country. IF in our days the tax.were sirs laid on leland, would it not necessarily be supposed that the contribution should be proportioned to the extent and fertility of the estates ? Would any one dare to alledge his employments, his ser vices, his dignities, in order to screen himself from the tributes exacted by the public weal? What connection have taxes with ranks, titles, and conditions ? They are concerned only with revenue: and revenue belongs to the tate, so soon as it becomes necessary for the public defence. ,IT. is not, however, sufficient that the impose be portioned out,wvjth equity; it is further necessary that it be proportioned to the wants of the government, which are lgotaalways the. same. War hath ever required in all,L 1 3 places
B o Places and in all ages more considerable expences than 'i- peace. The antients made a provision for them by their,oeconomy in times of tranquillity. Since the advantages of circulation and the principles of industry have been better developed, the method of laying up currency in this way, has been proscribed. The resource of laying on extraordinary taxes has been preferred. Every slate that should prohibit them would find itself obliged, in order to retard its fall, to have recourse to the methods in use at Constantinople. The Sultan, who can do every thing hut augment his revenues, is constrained to give up the empire to the extortions of his delegates, that he may afterwards deprive them of what they have plundered from his subjects. THAT taxes may not be exorbitant, they should be ordered, regulated and administered by the representatives of the people. The impost has ever depended on the property. He that is not master of the produce is not master of the field. Thus it is that among all nations tributes have never been at first laid on the proprietors but by themselves; whether the lands were parcelled out among the conquerors; whether the clergy shared them with the nobles, or whether they passed by means of commerce and industry into the hands of the generality of the citizens. Every where, those who were in possession of the lands had reserved the natural, unalienable and sacred right, of not being taxed without their own consent. If we remove this principle, there is no longer any monarchy, or any nation; there is nothing remain ing but a despotic master and a herd of slaves. YE people, whose kings order every thing they please, read over again your own history. Ye will see that your ancestors assembled themselves and deliberated whenever a subsidy was in agitation. If the cutfom of doing this is,ob-
obsolete, the right is not lost; it is recorded sri heavens 0O K which has given the earth to mankind to possess it: it is XIX written on the field you have taken the pains to inclose, in order tonsure to yourselves the enjoyment of it: it is written in your hearts, where the divinity has im pressed the love of liberty. That head railed upwards towards heaven is not made in the image of the Creator to bow before man. No man is greater than another, but by the choice and consent of all. Ye courtiers, your greatness is in your lands, and not at the feet of your master. Be less ambitious, and ye will be richer. Go and do justice to your vassals, and ye will improve your fortunes by increasing the mass of common happiness. What is it ye gain by raising the edifice of despotism be neath the ruins of every degree of liberty, virtue, senti ment and property ? Be persuaded it wills crush you all. Around that formidable Colossus ye are no more than figures in bronze, representing the nations chained at the feet of a statue. IF the right of laying on taxes be in the prince alone, though it may not be for his interest to overcharge and vex his people, yet they will be overcharged and vexed. The caprices, profusions and enterprizes of the sovereign will no longer know any bounds when they meet with no obstacles. A safe and cruel fyRfem of politics will soon persuade him that rich subjects will always become insolent, that they must be ruined, in order to be kept in subjection, and that poverty is the firmest rampart of the throne. He will go so far as to believe that every thing is at his disposal, that nothing belongs to his slaves, and that he does them a favour in every thing he leaves them. THE government will seize upon every avenue and outlet of induftry,'to fleece it, as well in its entry as its outgoing, and to exhaust it in its course. Commerce 1 4 will
Bo 0 K will obtain circulation, but by the interposal and for the benefit of thetreafury. Cultivation will be, neglected by mercenaries who can have no hopes of acquiring pro pert. The nobility will serve and fight:only for pay. Thenagiftrate will give judgment only for the fake of his fees and his salary. Merchants will hoard up their fortunes in order to transport them out of a land where there is no regard for the country, nor any security left. The nation, being no longer of any consequence, will conceive an indifference for its kings; will see its ene mies only in those who are its masters; will be induced to hope some time or other for an alleviation of its servitude in a change of its yoke; will expect its deliverance from a revolution, and its tranquillity from an entire overthrow of the slate. After this there is nothing more to be laid: let us now speak of a resource, which sovereigns turn to the ruin of their people: That is public credit. PUbliccre- IN general, what is called public credit, is nothing it. more than delay allowed for payment; Credit then sup-poses a double confidence; confidence in the person who is in want of it, and confidence in his abilities to pay. The sirs is the most necessary. It is too common for a man in debt, who is of a bad disposition to break his en engagements, though he is able to fulfil them; and to dissipate his fortune by irregular contra and extravagance But the honest and prudent man, who. has at the same time a proper understanding, may by a variety of operations well-managed, acquire or replace the means that have failed him for a time. THE chief end of commerce is consumption; but be fore commodities have reached the places these they are to be consumed, a confiderabie time often passes, and great expences must Le incurred. If the merchant is,.com-
compelled to make his purchases with ready money, corn B 0, K mere will.neceffarily-languifih. Those who are fellers. . and those who mus buy, will be equally sufferers by'it. From these arrangements arises credit among the individuals of one society, or even of several societies. It differs from public credit, which is the credit of a whole nation considered as forming one single body. BETWEEN public and private credit there is. this difference that gain is the end of the one, and expence of the other. From hence it follows that credit is gain with respect to the merchant; because it furnishes him with the means of acquiring riches ; and that with regard to governments it is one cause of impoverishing them, since it only supplies them with the power of ruining them selves. A State that borrows, alienates a portion of its revenue for a capital which it spends. It is then poorer after having thus borrowed, than it was before that-des flruaive manoeuvre. Notwithstanding the scarcity of gold and silver, the governments of antient times were not acquainted with the use of public credit, even in the periods of the most fatal and critical events. They formed during peace a shock that was made use of as a resource in times of distress. Then money returning into circulation awakened industry and alleviated, in some measure, the inevitable calamities of war. Since the discovery of the new world has made bullion more common, those who have had the lead in governments have generally engaged in enterprizes above the abilities of the people they governed: and have not scrupled to burthen posterity with debts they have taken the liberty to contract. That system of oppression has been conti need; it mush bind our distant successors, and be a load upon all nations and all ages.,THE
B 0 K THE custom of public credit, though ruinous to every,.~ihftate, is not equally so to all. A nation that has several valuable productions of its own; whose entire revenue is free; which has always fulfilled its engagements; which has not the ambition of conquest; and which governs itself: such a nation will find money at an easter rate, than a government whole soil is not fertile; which is overloaded with debts; which engages in undertakings beyond its strength; which has deceived its creditors, and groans beneath an arbitrary power. The lender, who of course imposes the law, will always proportion the terms to the risques he muff run. Thus, a people, whose finances are in disorder, will soon fall into the ut most distress by public credit: but the government which is better administered, will also find its prosperity limited by it.,BUT, say some political arithmeticians, is it not ad advantageous to invite the money of other nations into the bosom of your country: and do not public shocks pro duce that important effect ? Yes, undoubtedly we attract the money of strangers by these means; but it is in no other way than if we were to sell them one or more of the provinces of the empire. Perhaps, it would be a more rational practice to deliver up to them the soil, than to cultivate it solely for their use.,BUT if the state borrowed only of its own subjects, the national revenue would not be given up to foreigners. It certainly would not: but the state would impoverish some of its members, in order to enrich one individual. Must not taxes be increased in proportion to-the interest that are to be paid, and the capital that is to be replaced ? The proprietors of lands, the cultivators, every citizen, will they not all find themselves more burthened, than if all the money borrowed by the state had been demanded,from
from them at once ? Their situation is the same; as ifB O O K they themselves had borrowed it, inftead.of making such. XIX. savings in their ordinary expences as might enable them to supply an accidental charge. BUT the paper-currency which proceeds from the loans made to government, increases the mass of riches in circulation gives a great compass to all business, and facilitates every operation. Infatuated men! Can you not perceive all the errors of your politics ? Let your system be stretched to the utmost; let the state borrow all it can; load it with interest to be paid: and by these means re duce it to the necessity of forcing every tax; ye will soon find that with all your riches in circulation, ,ye will have no more wealth springing up afresh from the purposes of consumption and your trade. Money, and the paper which represents it, do not circulate of themselves, nor without certain powers that put them in motion. All these different signs come into use only in proportion as sales and purchases are made. Cover all Europe, if you choose it, with gold; if there is no merchandise for traffic, that gold will lie inactive. If you do but multi ply the commercial effects, ye need pay no attention to there representations of wealth; mutual confidence and necessity will soon be enabled to establish them without your care. Above all things you muff be careful not to multiply them by such means as must of course diminish the mars of your growing produce. BUT the custom of public credit enables one power to give the law to others. Will it never be discovered that this resource is in common to all nations ? If it be a kind of high road for us to march up to the adversary, will it not equally serve them to come to us ? Will not the credit of the two nations be in proportion to their respective wealth ? and will they not be ruined without having another
BOO-brother advantages.over one another than those they were .v in-possession of, independent of every loan? When.I fee monarch sand empires at war, and falling upon one another with violence in the midst of all their debts, their public funds, and their revenues already deeply mort gaged, it seems to me, says a philosophical writer, as if I few men fighting with clubs in a potter's shop surround ed with porcelain. IT would, perhaps, be rashness to affirm, that in no circumstance whatsoever republic service will requite an alienation of part of the public revenues. The scenes that disturb the world are so various; governments are exposed to such strange revolutions.; the field of events is so extensive; politics strike such surprising strokes, that it is not within the reach of human wisdom to foresee and calculate every circumstance. But in this point, it is the common practice of governments, which we are discussing, and not a particular situation which in all pro ability may never present itself. EVERY state which will not be diverted from the ruin vous course of loans by such considerations as we havejuft been offering, will effect its own ruin. The facility of acquiring-great sums of money at once, will put a go government upon every kind of unreasonable, rash and ex pensive undertaking; will make it mortgage the future for the present, and game with the present flock to acquire future supplies. One loan will bring on another,. and to accelerate the last, the interest will be more and more raised. THIS irregularity will cause the fruits of industry .to pass into rome idle hands. The ease of enjoyment with out doing any thing, will draw into the capital every person of fortune, and all vicious and intriguing men; together with a train of servants-borrowed from the,plough;
plough' of young girls derived of their innocence.and-B 0 6 t of their' rights of marriage; tof subjects op both sexes. 'IX devoted to luxury: all of' them the instruments, the:vic- tims, the objects, or the sport of indolence and voluptuousness : . THE seducing attraction of public debts will spread more and more. When men can reap the fruits without work, every individual will engage in that species of em payment which is at once lucrative and earl Proprietors of land and merchants will all turn annuitants., Money is changed into (late paper, because the sign is more portable less subjea to alteration from time, and less liable to the injury of felons, .and the rapacity of. the farmers of the revenue. Agriculture, trade and indufiry.will sus ser fro'mthe preference given to the representative .paper above the real specie or. commodity. As the state always makes a bad-distribution of that which has been wrong fully acquired, in proportion as its debts increase, .the taxes must be raised .order to pay:the interest Thus all-the active and fruitful classes of society are :tripped and exhausted .by the idle and barren class of annuitants. The increase of taxes raises' the price of commodities, and consequently that of industry By these means; con gumption is lessened ; because exportation ceases as soon as merchandise is too dear to stand the competitions of other nations. Land and manufactures are equally as. seced.,iTHE inability the (late then finds in itself to answer its engagements, forces it to extricate itself by a method the most destructive of the freedom of the people, and of the power of the sovereign, by bankruptcy. The necessity of this fatal crisis of empires, which oversets the fortunes of every one, will at length approach; a method that by violence despoils the creditors, after having attracted to,itself
B 0 0o itself every flock by usurious interest, and by edits for,, loans, which disgrace the monarch by cruel failures after his moR solemn engagements, forfeiting the oaths of the prince and the rights of his fubjeas; overturning with out resource the surest basis of all government, public confidences-Such is the end of loans, from whence we may judge of the principles-on which they are founded. Fe arts AFTER having examined the basis and columns of every and Belles . . - ICttre. civilized society, let us take a view of the ornaments and decorations of the building. These are the fine arts, and polite literature. Two famous people raised themselves by works of genius to a height of reputation which will never end; and which will always reflect honour on the humanfpecies.: . CHRISTIANITY, after having demolished in Europe all the idols of Pagan antiquity, preserved some of the arts to serve as a support to the'influence of persuasion, and to favour the preaching of the gospel. But in the place ossa religion embellished with the gay divinities of Greece and Rome, it erected monuments of terror and sadness, conformable to the tragic events which signalized its birth and progress. The Gothic ages have left us some monuments, the boldness and majesty of which still strike the eye amidst the ruins of taste aud elegance. Every one of their temples was built in the shape of the cross, covered with the cross, filled with crucifixes, de coated with horrid and gloomy images, with scaffolds, tortures, martyrs, and executioners what became of the arts, condemned as they were to terrify the imagination by continual spectacles of blood, death, and future punishments ? They became as hideous as their models, barbarous as the princes and pontiffs that employed them, mean and base as the adorers of their works, they frightened children in their very cradles; they,aggravated
aggravated the horrors of the grave by an eternal per-B 0 o K festive of terrible shades; they spread melancholy over xI the whole face of the land.,AT length the period arrived for lessening. those scaffolding of religion and social policy. The fine arts re turned with literature from Greece into Italy by the Me mediterranean, which maintained the commerce between Asia and Europe. The Huns, under the name of Goths, had driven them from Rome to Constantinople; and the very same Huns, under the name of Turks, drove them back again from Constantinople to Rome. That city, defined as it was to rule by force or by stratagem cultivated and revived the arts, which had been a long time buried in oblivion;,WALLS, columns, statues, vases, were drawn forth from the dull of ages, and the ruins of Italy, for models of the fine arts at their revival. The genius which pre sides over design raised three of the arts at once; I mean architecture, (culture and painting. Architecture, in which convenience of itself regulated those proportions of symmetry that contribute to give pleasure to the eye; sculpture, which flatters princes, and is the reward of great men; and painting, which perpetuates the remembrance of noble actions, and the instances of mutual love. Italy alone had more superb cities, more magnificent edifices than all the rest of Europe put together. Rome, Flo hence and Venice bred three schools of original painters: so much does genius appertain to the imagination, and imagination to the climate. Had Italy possessed the treasures of Mexico, and the produce of Asia, how much more would the arts have been enriched by the discovery of both the Indies.,THAT country, of old so fruitful in heroes, and as towards in artists, beheld literature, which is the in-separable
B O Separable companion of the arts, flourish a second time. ,. '. Vthey had been stifled by a series of barbarous latinity corrupted and disfigured by religions mixture of Egyptian theology, Grecian philosophy, and Hebrew poetry; such was the Latin language in the mouths of Monks, who chanted all night, and taught by day things and words-they did not underhand.,TiiE mythology of the Romans revived in literature the graces of antiquity. ' Vthe spirit limitation borrow ed them at sift without choice. Custom introduced tate in the employment of those rich treasures. Vthe Italian genius, too fertile not to invent, mixed ;its bold:ftrokes, and its capricious flights,; with the rules and modes of their old mailers, even the fictions of fairy land with those of fable. Vthe manners of the age, and the national character gave ,their own tincture to the works of imagination Petrarch had'drawn that celestial virgin, beau ty, which served as a model' for the heroines of chivalry. Armada was the emblem 'of the coquetry which reigned in her time in Italy. Ariosto confounded all kinds of poetry, in a work, which may rather be called the labyrinth of poetry, than a poem. Vthat author will stand single in the history of literature, 'like the enchanted palaces of his own construction in the deserts letters and arts, after crossing the sea, passed the Alps. In the same manner as the Crusades had brought the oriental romances into Italy, the wars of Charles the Villi and' Lewis the XIIth transported into France rome principles of good literature. Francis the-first, if he had not been to dispute the Milanese with Charles the Vth, would never, perhaps, have been ambitious of the title of the Father of lItters: but these feeds of knowledge and improvement in the arts were lost in the religious wars. Vthey were collected, if I may be allowed the exprefflon,,in
i. blooded carnage :- and the time camewhen, they were B 0 OK towering up wandering forth fruit. The i6th century belong; , *ed to. Italy, the succeeding one to France, .which. the victories of Lewis-the X'.Vthb or rather by the genius of great men, that'flourifhed together-under, his: reign, - de krves to make an epoch in' the h'ifory of the-fine arts. ' As it had been in Italy, so in. France. genius: seized at once upon all the powers of the human mind. It was displayed in the marble, and on the canvas, in public edifices and gardens ; as well as: in. eloquence and poetry. Every. thing was. submitted to its. influence, not.ooly ,the ingenious mechanic. arts,; but those, also which depend solely on-the mind Every, thing bore the stamp of genius ,The colours visible in nature animated the works ,of ,imagination; and the. liman passions. enlivened the. designs of the pencil. Man gave spirit to matter, anybody "spirit. But let it' be well observed this-happened .a pastime when a paffion:for glory warmed the nation .great and powerful as it was by insinuation, and the.extent.of its empire. The sense of honour which raised it. in its own estimation, and which then characterised inthe eyes, sall Europe, was its foul, its instinct, and supplied. the place of that liberty which had formerly created the arts of genius in the republics, of Greece. and Rome, which had revived them in that of Florence, and which had compelled them. to push forth. on ti cold.and foggy borders of the Thames. - .W ^A,,w; ud, not genius have done in France, had it beeRpjunder the influence of laws only, when it soared so high 'under the dominion of the most absolute of kings Whenwe.e see what energy patriotism has given to the English, inspire of the.ina&civity cf their climate, we may judge what it might. have produced amongst the French, where's most mild temperature of season leads a VOL. IV. M m people,
B O OK people, naturally feeble and lively, to invention and en,. v joymcnt. We may judge what might have been done ina country, where as of old in Greece, are found spirit, warm and apt for invention, beneath a fun that enlivens them with its purest beams; nervous arms, in a climate where-even the cold excites to labour: temperate provinces between north and south: sea-ports ended by navigable rivers: vast plains abounding in corn: hills loaded with Vineyards and fruits of all forts: fait pits. which may be multiplied at pleasure: pastures covered with horses: mountains clothed with the finest woods: country every where peopled with laborious hands, which are the sirs resources: for subsistence: the common materials. for. the arts, and the superfluities of luxury: in a word, the commerce of Athens, the industry of Corinth, the fol fiery of Sparta, and the flocks of Arcadia. With. al these advantages, which Greece once possessed, France might have carried the fine arts to as great a height as that pa rent of genius, had She but had the same laws, the same exercise of reason and liberty, which give rise to great men, and. rulers of great nations. NEXT to the superiority of legislation, among modern nations, in order for their being equal to the ancients in works of genius, there has, perhaps, been wanting no thing except an improvement in language. The Italian, with tone, accent, and numbers, has affumed'all the characteristics of poetry, and impressed all the charms of nuflt. These two arts,. have consecrated it to the de lightful province of harmony,, as its softest mode of ex pression, THE French language holds the superiority in prose; if it is not the language of the gods, it is, at leash, that of reason and truth. Prose especially speaks to reason in philosophy. It enlightens those minds privileged by nature,
ture, which seem placed between princes and their sub B O o jests to instruct and dire mankind. At a period when X . liberty has no longer her tribunes, nor amphitheatres, to agitate vast assemblies of the people, a language which spreads itself in books, which is read in all countries, which serves as the common interpreter of all other languages and as the vehicle of all forts of ideas: a language ennobled, refined, softened, and above all, fixed by the genius of writers, and the polish of courts, becomes at length universally prevailing. THE English language has likewise had its poets, and its prose-writers, that have gained it the character of energy and boldness, sufficient to make it immortal. May it be learned among all nations that aspire not to be slaves. They will dare to think, a&, and govern them selves. It is not the language of words, but of ideas; and the English have none but such as are strong and for cible; they are the first who ever made use of the ex pression, the majesty of the pespie, and that alone is sufficient to consecrate a language the Spaniards have hitherto properly had neither prose nor verse, though they have a language formed to excel in both. Brilliant and sonorous as pure gold, its pace is grave and regular like the dances of that nation: it is grand and decent like the manners of ancient chivalry. That tongue will be able to maintain some dignity, even acquire some superiority, whenever there shall be found in it many such writers as Cervantes and Mariana. When its academy shall have put to silence the inquisition and its universities, that language will raise itself to great ideas, and to sublime truths, to which it is invited by the na tural high spirit of the people who speak it.,PRIOR to ail other living languages is the German, that mother tongue, that original native language of Eu-,M m 2 rope.
B O O K rope. From thence the Englifa and French too have beeR,. formed, by the mixture of the German with the Latin. However, as it seems hardly calculated to please the eye, and for polite organs, it has remained in the mouths of the people, and has been introduced but of late into books. A scarcity of writers seemed to flew that it belonged to a country where the fine arts, poetry and eloquence were not destined to flourish. .But on a sudden genius has exerted her powers, and-originals in more than one species of poetry, have appeared in pretty con miserable numbers, sufficient to come into competition with other nations. ' - LANGUAGES could not be cultivated and refined tota certain degree, but the arts of every kind must keep pace with that degree of perfection; and indeed the monuments of these arts have-multiplied so much throughout Europe, that the barbarism of succeeding people and of ages to come will find it difficult entirely to destroy them. . -' HoWEVER, as the human species is merely-a-fubjea for fermentations and revolutions, there is only want ing-fome ardent genius, some enthusiast to set the world again in flames. The people of the east, and of: the north, are ready to spread their chains, and their dark ness over all Europe. Would not an irruption of Tar tars or Africans into Italy, be sufficient to overturn churches, and palaces, to confound in one general ruin the idols of religion, and the master-works of art ?' Aid as we are so much attached to these works of luxury, we should have the less spirit defend thei. A city, which ithasocof two centuries to decorate,'is burnt and ravaged in a single day. Perhaps, with one stroke of his axe, a ,Tartafmay dash in pieces the statue of Voltaire, that Pigalle could not finish within encompass of ten years.,And
And sWill we are at work for immortality. Vain atoms 0 O K that we are, pressed forward by one another in the shade xIX. . from whence we began. Ye nations, whether artisans or soldiers, what are ye in the hands of nature, but the sport of her laws, destined by turns to set dust in mo tion, and to reduce the work again into dust. BUT it is by means of the arts that man enjoys his ex offence, and survives himselfe-Ages of ignorance never emerge from their oblivion. There remains no retrace of them after their exigence, than before they began to exist. There is no possibility of indicating the place or time of their passage, nor can we mark on the ground belonging to a barbarous people, it is bore they lived; for they leave not even ruins to record them. It is invention alone that gives man power over matter and time. The genius of Homer has rendered the Greek characters in delvile. Harmony and reason have placed the eloquence of Cicero above the sacred orators. The pontiffs them selves, softened and enlightened by the information and charm of the arts, by being admirers and protectors of them, have vilified the human mind to break the chains of superstition. Commerce has hastened the progresses art by means of the luxury which wealth has diffused. Every effort of the mind and of the body has been united to embellish and improve the lot of the human species. Industry and invention, together with the en moments procured by the new world, have penetrated as far as the polar circle, and the fine arts are attempting to force nature even at Peterfburgh. To the train of letters and fine arts philosophy is an Philos. need, which one would imagine ought rather to conduct ply' them: but appearing later than they did can only follow as an attendant. Arts arise from the very necessities of man kind in the earlier slate of the human mind. Letters are,M m 3 the
B 0 K the flowers of its youth: children of the imagination, ~ *a ,being themselves fond of ornament, they decorate everything they approach: and this turn for embellishment produces what are properly called the fine arts or the arts of luxury and decoration, which give the polish to the primary arts of necessity. It is then we see the winged genii of sculpture fluttering over the porticos of architecture; and the genii of painting entering palaces, representing the heavens upon a cieling, Sketching out upon wool and silk all the animated scenes of rural life, and tracing to the mind upon canvas the useful truths of history as well as the agreeable chimeras of fable. WHEN the mind has been employed on the pleasures * of the imagination and of the senses, when governments have arrived to a degree of maturity, reason arises and bestows on the nations a certain gravity; this is the age of philosophy. She advances with gradual steps and proceeds silently along, announcing the old age of em pires which the attempts in vain to support. She closed the latter ages of the fine republics of Greece and Rome. Athens had no philosophers till the eve of her ruin, which they seemed to foretell: Cicero and Lucre thus did not compose their writings on the nature of the gods, and the system of the world, till the din of civil wars arose, and hastened the downfal of liberty. HOWEVER, Thales, Anaximander, Anaximenes, Anaxagoras had sown the feeds of philosophy in their theory concerning the elements of matter; but the folly of systems destroyed all there principles one by another. Then Socrates appeared, who brought philosophy back to the principles of true wisdom and virtue: it was that alone he loved, practised and taught; persuaded that man has no need of science, but of morals, to be happy. Plato, his disciple, though a natural philosopher and in-,ftruaed
strutted in the mysteries of nature by his travels into B O OK,xIx. Egypt, ascribed every thing to the foul, and scarce any thing to nature; he overwhelmed philosophy with theology and the knowledge of the universe with the ideas of the divine powers. Aristotle, Plato's disciple, discoursed less of God than of Man and the animal creation. His natural history has been transmitted to posterity, though his system was not universally followed by the people of his time. Epicurus, who lived neatly about the same period, revived the atoms of Democritus, which doubtless balanced the four elements of Aristotle, and in this equilibrium of systems, natural philosophy could not take any progress. The moralists led the people in their train as they are better understood than the naturalists. They formed their schools; for no sooner do opinions gain a degree of reputation than parties are formed to support them. IN these circumstances, Greece agitated by interior commotions after having been torn with an intcfiene war, was subjected by Macedon, and broken in pieces by Rome. Then public calamities turned the hearts and understandings of men to morality. Zero and Demo critus who had been only naturalists became, long after their death, the heads of two teas of moralists, more addicted to theology than physics, rather casuists than phi lofophers; or it might rather be affirmed that philosophy was given up and confined entirely to the sophists. The Romans, who took every thing from the Greeks, made no discoveries in the true field of philosophy. Among the ancients philosophy made little progress; because it was entirely confined to morality: among the moderns its first seps have been more fortunate, because they have been guided by the light of natural knowledge. WE must not reckon the interval of near a thousand years, during which period philosophy, science, arts and,M m 4 letters,
B O OK letters,' sept in the grave with Roman empire, among - the ashes of Italy, and the dust of cloysters. Asia pre-served the monuments of it without making any use of them, and Europe some fragments without knowing them. The world, Christian or Mohammedan, was every where covered with the blood of nations: ignorance alone tri rumpled under the standard of the cross or, the crescent. Before these dreaded signs, every knee was bent, every spirit trembled. Philosophy continued in a fate of in fancy, pronouncing only the names of God and of the foul: her attention was solely engaged on matters of which she should for ever remain ignorant. 'Time, ar argument and all her application was wasted on questions that were, at least, idle; questions, for the most part, void of sense, not to he defined, and not to be determined from the nature of their object; and which, there fore, proved an eternal source of disputes, schisms, feds, hatred, persecution, and national as well as religious wars. IN the mean time, the Arabs after their conquests car cried away as it were in triumph, the spoils of genius and philosophy. Aristotle sell into their hands, saved out of the ruins of ancient Greece. These destroyers of empires had some sciences of which they had been the first authors. Calculation was of their invention. Astronomy and geometry accompanied them along the coasts of Africa, which they laid waste and peopled again. Medicine at tended them every where. That science which has, perhaps, no greater recommendation in its favour, than its affinity with chymiflr and natural knowledge, rendered them as famous as astrology, another supports imposition. Avicenna and Averrobs, physicians, mathematicians, and philosophers maintained the tradition of true science by translations and commentaries. But let us imagine what mush become of Aristotle, translated from Greek into,Arabic,
Arabic, and after that, from Arabic into Latin, under BOO K,XIX. the hands of monks, who wanted to adapt the philosophy . - of paganism to the Hebrew codes of Moses and Christ. That confusion of systems, ideas and language flopped for a considerable time the structure of science. The di vine overturned the materials brought by the philosopher, who sapped the very foundations laid by his rival. How ever, with a few stones from one, and much sand from the other, some miserable architect built up a strange Gothic monument, called the philosophy of the schools. Continually patched, propped and plaistered from age to age, by Irish or Spanish metaphysicians, it supported it self till about the time of discovery of the new world, which was defined to change the face of the old one. LIGHT sprang from the midi of darkness. An English monk attended to the practice of chymistry, and paving the way for the invention of gun-powder, which was to bring America into subjection to Europe, he opened the avenues of true science by experimental philosophy. Thus science issued out of the closer, where ignorance re gained. When Bocaccio had exposed the debauched lives of the regular and secular clergy, Galileo ventured conjectures upon the figure of the earth. Superstition was alarmed at it, and with its clamours sent forth its thunders: but philosophy tore off the mask from the monster, and rent the veil under which truth had been hid. The weakness and falsehood of popular opinions was perceived, on which the basis of the social edifice was supported; but to drive error from her tribunal, it was necessary to be acquainted with the laws of nature, and the causes of the various phenomena. That was the objet philosophy had in view.,As soon as Copernicus was dead, after he had, by force of reason, conjectured that the fun was in the,center
3 Took center of our world, Galileo arose, and confirmed by,. the invention of the telescope the true system of astronomy which either had been unknown, or lay in oblivion ever since Pythagoras had once conceived it. While Effendi was putting the elements of antient philosophy, or the atoms of Epicurus into motion, Descartes agitated and combined the elements of a new philosophy, or his ingenious and subtile vortexes. Almost about the same time, Toricelli invented, at Florence, the thermometer for the weighing of air; Pascal measured the height of the mountains of Auvergne, and Boyle in England veri sied and confirmed the various experiments of both the one and the other descartes had taught the art of doubting, in order to undeceive the mind previous to intrusion. His me tropical doubt was the grand instrument of science, and the most signal service that could be rendered to the human mind under the darkness which surrounded it, and the chains which fettered it. Bayle, by applying that method to opinions the best authorised by the faction of time and compulsion, has made us sensible of the im portance of doubting chancellor Bacon, a philosopher, but unsuccessful at court, as friar Bacon had been in the closer, like hail the harbinger rather than the legislator of the new philosophy had protested equally against the prejudice of the senses and the schools, as against those phantoms he tiled the idols of the understanding. He had foretold truths he could not discover. In conformity to his oracular pre ages, while experimental philosophy was discovering fans; rational philosophy was in search of causes Both contributed to the study of mathematics, which were to guide the efforts of the mind and insure their success. It was, in fat, the (science of algebra applied to geometry,,and
and the application of geometry to natural philosophy, B K which raised in Newton suspicions of the true system of XX the world. Upon turning his eyes up to the heavens, by his observations on the fall of bodies to the earth, he saw there might be among the motions of the heavenly bodies some relations which implied an universal prin ciple, differing from impulsion, the only visible cause of all their movements. By the study of optics after astronomy he conjectured the origin of light; and the ex pediments to which he was led on by that conjecture, changed it into system. AT the time when Descartes died, Newton and Leib nit were hardly horn, who were to finish, correct and bring to perfection what he had begun, that is to say, the establishing of found philosophy. These two men alone greatly contributed to its quick and rapid progress. One carried the knowledge of God and the foul, as far as rea son could lead it; and the inutility of his attempts un deceived the human mind for ever with refpea to those false metaphysics. The other extended the principles of natural philosophy and the mathematics much further than the genius of many ages had been able to carry them, and pointed out the road to truth. At the same time Locke attacked scientific prejudices even into the in entrenchments of the schools: he dissipated all those phantoms of the imagination, which Malebranche suffered to spring up again, after he had humbled them, because he did not go to the root of the hydra's head but we are not to suppose philosophers alone have discovered and imagined every thing. It is the course of events which has given a certain bent to the actions and thoughts of mankind. A complication of natural or inoral causes, a gradual improvement in politics joined to the progress of fury and of the sciences, a combina-,tion
B OO O tion of circumstances which it was as impossible to haflen,as to foresee, must have contributed to the revolution that has prevailed in the understandings of men. Among na tions as among individuals, the body and foul ac and re at alternately upon each other. Popular opinions infer even philosophers, and philosophers are guides to the people. Galileo had asserted, that as the earth turned round the fun, there muff be antipodes; and Drake proved the fa, by a voyage round the world. The church styled itself universal!, and the Pope called himself matter of the earth: and yet more than two thirds of its inhabitants did not so much as know there was any catholic religion, and particularly that there was a pope. Euro means, who have travelled and trafficked every where, taught Europe that one portion of the globe lived under the laws of Mohammed, and a still larger one in the darkness of idolatry, or in the total ignorance and unenlightened fate of atheism. Thus philosophy extended the empire of human knowledge, by the discovery of the errors of superstition, and of the truths of nature. ITALY, whose impatient genius penetrated through the obstacles that surrounded it, was the first that founded an academy of natural philosophy. France and England, who by their rivalfhip were to extend their greatness, raised at one time two everlasting monuments to the im provement of philosophy: two-academies from whence all the learned of Europe draw their information, and in which they deposit all their flores of knowledge. From hence have been brought to light a great number of the mysterious points in nature, experiments, phenomena, discoveries in the arts and sciences, the secrets of electricity and the causes of the Aurora Borealis. Hence have proceeded the instruments-and means of purifying air on board of ships, for making sea water fit to be drunk, 
the figure of the earth, and ascertaining the 0 O'it- longitudes; for improving agriculture, and for producing xI , more grain with less feed and less labour aristotle had reigned ten centuries in all the schools of Europe; and the christians, after losing the guidance of reason, were able to recover it again only by fol lowing his example. They had even gone affray, for a long time, by attending on that philosopher, because they walked involved in the darkness of theology. But at last Descartes gave the thread, and Newton the wings for getting out of that labyrinth Doubt had dissipated prejudices, and the method of analysis had found out the truth. After the two Bacon, Galileo and Descartes, Locke and Bayle, Leibnitz and Newton, after the me moors of the academies of 'Florence and Leipsic, of Paris and London, there still remained a great work to be com posed, in order, to perpetuate the sciences and philosophy. This work has now appeared. THIs book, which contains all the errors and all the truths that have issued from the human mind from the doctrines of theology to the speculations on insets, every work of the hands of men from a ship to a pin ; this re monitory of the intelligence of all nations, will, in future ages, characterize that of philosophy, which after so many advantages procured to mankind ought to be considered as a divinity on earth; It is the who binds, en lightens, aids and comforts human beings. She bestows every thing upon them, without exacting any worship in return. She demands of them, not the sacrifice of their passions, but a reasonable, useful and moderate exercise of all their faculties. Daughter of nature, dispenser of her gifts, interpreter of her rights, she consecrates her intelligence:and her labour to the use of man. She makes him better, that he may be happier. She detests,only
B.0 K only tyranny and imposture, because they trample on the . 'world. She does not desire to rule, but the exact of such,as do rule that they covet no enjoyment but the public happiness. She avoids disturbance, and the name of seas, but The tolerates them all. The blind and.the wicked calumniate her; the former are afraid of seeing, and the latter of being seen. Ungrateful children, who rebel again a tender mother, when The wives to cure them of their errors and vices which occasion the calamities of mankind light, however, spreads insensibly over a more ex tensive horizon. A kind of empire is formed, that of literature, which begins and paves the way for the re public of Europe. In truth; if philosophy is ever enabled to insinuate itself into the minds of sovereigns or their ministers, the system of politics will be improved, and rendered simple. Humanity will be more regarded in all their plans; the public good will enter into their negotiations not merely as an expression, but as a matter of consequence even to kings. Already has printing made, such progress that it can never be put a flop to in any state without lowering, the people by desiring to advance the authority of govern ment. Books enlighten the multitude, humanize the great, delight the leisure of the rich, and inform all the classes of society. The sciences bring to perfection the different branches of political economy. Even the errors of systematical persons are dissipated by the press; because reasoning and discussion try them by the tell of truth. ANs intercourse of knowledge is become necessary for industry, and literature alone maintains that communi cation. The reading of a voyage round the world has, perhaps, occasioned more attempts of that kind; for in teres alone cannot find the means of enterprize. Represent
present nothing can be cultivated without rome study, or B 0 0 K without the knowledge handed down and diffused by xl. reading. Princes themselves have not recovered their rights from the usurpations of the clergy, but by the affiance of that intelligence which has undeceived the people with respect to the abuses of all spiritual. power but it would be the greatest folly of the human mind to have employed all its powers to raise the authority of kings, and to break every other shackle in order to forge out of them. that of despotism. The same courage that religion inspires to withdraw conscience from the tyranny exercised over opinion, the honest man, the citizen, and friend of the people ought to maintain to free the na tions from the tyranny of such powers as conspire against the liberty of mankind. Unhappy is that state in which there is not to be found one single defender of public right. The kingdom, with all its riches, its trade, its nobles, and its citizens mus soon fall into unavoidable anarchy. It i.sthe laws that are to save a nation from destruction, and the freedom of writing is to save the laws ? But what is. the foundation and bulwark of the laws? It is morality.,TiiaE are whole libraries of morality. What morals number of useless and even pernicious books i They are for the most part, the work of priests and their disciples, who'not causing to see that religion should consider men only in. the relations they stand in to the divinity, found it necessary to look for another ground for the relations they bear among one another. If there is an universal mo reality, it. cannot be the effect of a particular cause. It has been the same in times past, and it will be fill the same in ages to come; it cannot then be grounded' on-res litigious opinions, which have continually varied ever since the beginning of the world, and from one pole to the,other.
BOOK other. Greece had vicious deities, the romans had. then 4. . .likewise: the stupid worshippers. of the Fetiche,adores,rather a devil than a God. Every people made gods for themselves, and made them as they pleased: some good, others cruel: some immoral, and others of austere man news. Onewould think that every nation had a mind to deify their own passions and opinions Notwithstanding that diversity in religious systems and modes of worship, all nations have perceived that men ought to bejuft : all nations have honoured as virtues, goodness, pity, friend lip, fidelity, paternal tenderness, filial respect, sincerity, gratitude, love of one's country; in short all tht feelings that can be considered as tyes adapted to. unite mens more closely-to one another. The origin of that uniformity of judgment so constant, so. general, ought not then to be looked for inde midi of contradictory and actuating opinions. If the ministers of religion have appeared to think otherwise, it is because by their system' they gained the power of regulating all the aaions of making they disposed sall their fortunes; of all their wills' they secured to themselves in the name of Heaven.the'arbitrary government of the world-the veil is now removed. ',Aitthe tribunal of philosophy and reason, morality is a science whose object is the preservation and common happiness of the human species. To this double end all its rules ought to tend.: Their natural, constants eternal principle is in man himself, and the resemblance of organs in one man to those of another.; a resemblance in.this. particular which brings with it a similarity of wants, of pleasures, and pains, of force and weakness. whence arises the necessity of society, or of a common struggle against dangers equally incident to each in-ivi- dual, which proceed from nature herself, and-threaten man on all sides. Such is the origin of particular' tiei,and
and of domestic virtues; such is the origin of general o O K,XIX. ties and public virtues; such is the source of the notion of personal and public utility, the source of all compass between individuals, and of all laws of government. SEVERAL writers have endeavoured to trace the first principles of morality in the sentiments of friendship, tenderness, compassion, honour, and benevolence; be cause they found them engraved the human heart. But did they not find there likewise hatred, jealousy, revenge, pride, and the love of dominion? Why then have they founded morality on the former rather than the latter? It is because they found that the former affections turned to the common advantage of society, and that the others were fatal to it. These philosophers have perceived the necessity of morals, they have conceived what they ought to be, but have not discovered their leading and fundamental principle. In truth, the very sentiments they adopt as the ground-work of morality, because they ap pear to be serviceable to the common good, left to them selves would be very prejudicial. How should we de termine to punish the guilty if we listened only to com passion? How shall we guard against partiality, if we consult only the dictates of friendship ? How should we avoid being favourable to idleness, if we attended only to the feelings of benevolence ? All these virtues have their limits, beyond which they degenerate into vices; and : those limits are fettled by the invariable rules of essential justice ; or, which is the same thing, by the common in interests of men united together in society and the constant object of that union. these limits, it is true, have not yet been ascertain ed; but how should they have been, since it has not been possible to fix what the common interest itself was ? And this is the reason why among all people, and at.all times, VOL. IV, N n men
B O O Men have formed such different ideas of virtue and vice: Z. why hitherto, morality has appeared to be but a matters mere convention among men. That so many ages should have passed away in profound ignorance of the first principles of a science so important to our happiness is a certain fas; but so extraordinary that it should appear incredible. It is not to be conceived how it has happened that we should not sooner have discovered that as the uniting of men in society has no other aim but the com mon happiness of individuals, there is not, neither can there be among them any other social tie than that of their common interest: and that nothing can be consist went with the order of societies, unless it be consistent with the common utility of the members that compose them': that it is this which necessarily determines virtue and vice: and that our actions are consequently more or less vir tous, according as they turn more or less to the common advantage of society: that they are more or less vicious, according as the prejudice society receives from them is greater or lessens it on its own account that we raise courage to the number of the virtues ? No, it is on account of the ser vice it is of to society. The proof of this is, that it is punished in a man who makes use of it-to disturb the public peace; Why is drunkenness a vice ? because every man is bound to contribute to the common good, and to fulfil that obligation he has occasion for the free exercise of his faculties. Why are certain actions more blame able ina magistrate or general, than in a private. man ? Because greater inconvenience results from them to so cety.,As society ought to be of use to every one of its mem boers; it is but just that each of its members .hould be useful to society. Therefore to be virtuous, is. to be,useful:
useful: to be vicious, is to be useless or hurtful. This B 0 0 K is morality. XIX. *THIs,- indeed, is universal morality-that morality which being connected with the nature of main, is con netted with-the nature of society that morality which can vary only in its applications, but never it its essence: that morality, in (short, to which all laws 'hould refer, and to which they (hould be subordinate. In conformity to this common regulation of all our private and public actions; let us see whether there ever were, or ever can be good :morals in Europe. * SaitcE'the invasion of the barbarous nations into this quarter of the globe, almost all governments have had no other bais than the interest of a single man, or a ingle set of men, to the prejudice of the whole society. Found ed on conquest, the else of force, they have only varied in theme of keeping the people in subjection. Athirst war'made victims of them, devoted either to the sword of the master, or of the enemy. How many ages passed among blood and the carnage of nations, that is to say, in the distribution of empires, before terms of peace had let in Something of a more divine nature into that state of intestine war called society or government! 'WHEN the feudal government had for ever excluded those who tilled the ground from the right of possessing 'it: when, byafacrilegious collusion between the altar and'the throne, God had been associated with the sword-what effect had the morality of the gospel, but the em bordering of tyranny by passive obedience, but the ce menting'bf-flavery by a contempt of all science and all private acquisitions; but the adding to the fear of the great, the dread of demons ? And what were morals with such laws ? What they are at present in Poland, where the people, being without lands, and without arms, are,N 2 left
B. 0 Blest to be cut to-pieces by the Ruffians or enlisted by the , 2 .Prussians, and having neither vigour nor sentiment, thinic,it. is sufficient if they are christians, and remain neuter between their neighbours and their lords palatine.,To a similar slate of anarchy wherein morals had neither any .characteristic nor stability, succeeded the epidemic fury of holy wars, by which nations were corr rusted and degraded, by communicating .the-contagion of vices with that of fanaticism. Morals were changed by changing climate., ,All thepaffions were inflamed and' heightened between the tombs of Jesus and Mohammed. From Palestine was imported .a principle of-luxury and pride, a firing taste for the spices of the east, a romantic spirit which civilized the nobles of all countries without making the people more happy or more virtuous: for if there is no happiness without virtue; virtue will never support itself without a foundation of happiness about two centuries after Europe had been depopulated by Asiatic expeditions, its transmigration in America happened. That revolution induced an universal con fusion, and mixed the vices :and productions of every climate with ours. Neither did morality acquire any improvement, because men were then destroyed through avarice, instead of being massacred on account of re legion. Those nations which had made. the largest ac questions in the new world, seemed to collect at the same time all the cupidity, ferociousness, and ignorance of the old. ,They became the communicating channels of vices, and diseases, poor and wretched amidst all their gold; debauched, notwithstanding their churches and. their priests; idle and superstitious with all the sources of com mere, and means of being enlightened. But the love of riches likewise corrupted all other nations.,WHETHtR
WHETHER-it be war or commerce that introduces 3 0 0 K great wealth into a state, they soon become the objet of XX public ambition. At first they .are men of power who seize upon them. Then,' as riches. come into the hands of those who hold the helms affairs, wealth is con founded with honour in the minds of the people: 'and the virtuous citizen, who aspired to employments only) for the fake of glory, aspires without knowing it;. to honour for the fake of advantage Neither lands norltreafure, any more than conquests, are gained but from a, wish to enjoy them; and riches are enjoyed but for pleasure and the ostentation of luxury. By this double use, they cor .rapt as well the citizen who possesses them, as the people whole eyes!they fascinate. As soon as men; labour, at traced only by lucre, and not from a regard to their duty, the most advantageous situations are preferred to the most honourable. It is then we see the honour of a profession diverted, obscured, and lost in the paths that lead to wealth. To the advantage of that false consideration at which riches arrive, are to be added the natural conveniences of opulence, a frefh.fource of corruption. The placeman wishes to draw people about him: the honours he receives in public are not sufficient for him; he wants admirers, either of his talents, his luxury,or his profusion. If riches are the means of corruption by leading to. honours, how much more so by diffusing the taste for pleasure Misery offers its chastity to sale, and idleness its liberty; the prince sets the magistracy up to sale, and the magistrates let a price upon justice: the court fells employments, and policemen sell the people to the prince, who sell them again to the neighbouring powers either in treaties of war, or subsidy; of peace, or exchange of territory.,SUCH
B O O - Soli is the sordid traffic 'introductory the love of ' rc riches in any country where they can do everything, anywhere virtue is held in no estimation. But there is no es fe without its causes Gold does not become the people idol, and virtue does not fall into contempt, unless the bad constitution of the government induces that degree of corruption. Unfortunately, it will always-have this effet, if the government is so constituted that the temporary interest of a single person, or of a small number, cari;with impunity prevail over the commons and invalid ableainterft of the whole. It will always; induce this corruption, if those, in whose hands-authority is lodged; can make-an arbitrary use of it, can place themselves above the reach of all rules of justice, can make their power administer to plundering, and-their plunder tother continuance of abuses occasioned by their power. Good laws are maintained by good morals; but good morals are established by good laws: men are what government makes them. To modify them, it is always armed with an irresistible force, that of public-opinion: land the.go- vernier will always become 'a corrupter, when by its nature it is, itself corrupt. In a word, the nations of Eu rope will have good morals when they have good govern ments. Let us conclude . NATIONS; I have discoursed to you on your dearest sri interests. I have placed before your eyes the benefits of na ture, and the fruits of industry. As ye aretob frequent iy the occasion of one another's unhappiness; you mast have felt how the jealousy of avarice, hdw'pride arid amri- visions remove far from your common weal the 'happiness that prefers itself to you by peace nid commences hai;e:itcalled that happiness you drive away. The 'feel kings of my heart have been warmly expressed .in favour of al mankind without distension of fe or country.' Menace
are all equal in-my fight, by the reciprocal relation of the o oK same wants and the same calamities: as they are all equal XIX in the eyes of the supreme being through the relation be tween their weakness and his power. I am aware that subjected as ye are to rulers, your con edition depends on them, and that to speak of your evils was to reproach them with their errors or their crimes. This reflection has not prevented me from exerting myself. I never thought that the sacred respect due to humanity could possibly be irreconcilable with that respect which is due to those who should be its natural protectors. I have been transported in idea into the councils of the go verging powers of the world. I have spoken without disguise; and without fear, and have not to reproach my self with having betrayed the honourable cause I dared to plead. I have told sovereigns what were their duties, and what were the people's rights. I have traced to them the fatal effect of that inhuman power which is guilty of oppression; and that whose supineness and feebleness sus sers it. I have (fetched all around them portraits of your misfortunes, and they cannot but have felt them. I have warned them that if they turned their eyes away, those true but dreadful pictures'would be engraved on the mar able of their tombs, and accuse their allies while posterity trampled on them. BUT talents are not always equal to our zeal. Undoubt ely I have flood in need of a greater share of that penetration which discovers expedients, and that eloquence which enforces truth. Sometimes, perhaps, my feelings have elevated my genius: but moll frequently have I per civet myself overwhelmed with my subjea, and conscious of my own inability. May writers better favoured by nature complete, by their master-works, what my essays have begun. Under the auspices of philosophy may thereby
Rico Be one day extended from one extremity of the world., to the other, that chain of union and benevolence which ought toconne& all civilized people! May they never more carry among savage nations the example of vice and. oppressors! I do not flatter myself that, at the period of that happy revolution, my name will be fill in remembrance This feeble work, which will have but the me rit of having brought forth others better than itself, will, doubtless, be forgotten. But I shall, at.lcaft, be able to say, that I have contributed, as much as was in my powers to the happiness of my fellow-creatures, and pointed out the way, though at a distance, for the bettering of their condition. This agreeable thought will Land me ri the head of glory. It will be the delight of my old age, and, the consolation cf my latest moments.,BRITA \ THE END. THE END.
