A


COMPENDIUM




Of Authentic and Entertaining

Q


VOYAGES

Digested in a Chronological Series*


The whole exhibiting

A clear View of the Customs, Manner
Religion, Government, Commerce,
and Natural History of most Nations
in the Known World,


illustrated and adorned with a Variety of genuine Charts,
Maps, Plans, Heads, &c. curiously engraved.


t






In Seven Volumes,


VOL. L


LONDON:

Printed for R. and J. Dudley; Jo. Livingston
Ja. Livingston and J. Fletcher ; W. Johnston
W. Strain; and T. Jeffreys,

MDCCLVI.


U. M 9 -

















THE


PREFACE.


O many collections of Voyages have been



^3 already given to the world, that the
compiler of the ensuing volumes thinks it incumbent
upon him to explain the motives
which have induced him to swell the number
of these productions. One of his principal views
in undertaking the work, was to disencumbered
this useful species of history from a great deal
of unnecessary lumber, that tended only to
clog the narration and burthen the memory.

We live in an age of levity and caprice,
that can relish little besides works of fancy ;
nor do we listen to instruction unless it be conveyed
to us under the pleasing form of entertainment.
But to mix profit with delight
should be the aim of all writers, and the business
of every book : and nothing can contribute
more to these valuable ends, than a detail
of Voyages *, in which we can travel to the
molt distant corners of the world without stirring
from our closets, choose the moil enter


A 2


• 6


taming




it P R E F A C E.

gaining route, embark with the molt agreeable
companions, view remote cities and their governments,
extend our acquaintance thro all
the nations of the globe, and interest ourselves
in a succession of incidents and adventures,
that at once improve the mind and delight
the imagination.

These purposes, we apprehend, have not
been fully answered by the voluminous collections
which have hitherto appeared in this
country : the size and price of a folio are
cent to intimidate an ordinary reader from purchasing
the work or perusing its contents. besides,
they are generally so Tuned with dry
descriptions of bearings and distances, tides
and currents, variations of the compass, leeway,
wind and weather, founding, anchoring,
and other terms of navigation, that none but
meer pilots, or seafaring people, can read
them without disgust.

Our aim has been to clear away this
kind of rubbish in such a manner as to leave
the narrative less embarrassed, but more succinct:
we have not only retrenched the superfluities,
but endeavoured to polish the
stile, strengthen the connexion of incidents,

and




P R E F A C E. iii

and animate the narration* wherever it Teemed
to languish.

In the arrangement of our materials, we
have deviated from the plan which has been
followed by all other compilers of Voyages •
instead of beginning with the circum-navigators,
and classing together the different Voyages
which have been made to the same countries;
we have set out with the Discoveries of Columbus,
and introduced every subsequent
Voyage in chronological order, so as to form,
as it were. The Annals of Navigation. Thus
we trace the spirit of adventure in a regular
progress thro 5 all the various streams of discovery,
in every different channel give a new
entertainment, and avoid the fatiguing fame-ness
of immediate repetition.

The Charts, Maps and Plans, that decorate
this Work, are correctly drawn and engraved
from the most approved English and
French authors, and the longitudes adjusted
from the meridians of London and Ferro,
The Historical Cuts, Heads and Views, areas



also neatly engraved from the bell materials
that could be procured.


T PI E















A

COLLECTION

G F

VOYAGES.



The First Voyage of Columbus*

A S we do not pretend to give a minute detail
of all the voyages that have been performed,
and every discovery which hath
been made, but propose to colles those
only which are the most material and interesting,
we shall pass over the first enterprizes upon the west*
fern coast of Africa by the Portuguese, and begin
with the discovery of the Weft-Indies hy Christ's
pier Columbus; an expedition attended with the
I most important consequences to almost all the train
ding powers of Europe, and fraught with circum
stances so new and surprising, as cannot fail to ens
; gage, and even captivate the readers attention.
The history of these transactions will undoubtedly
I. meet with the greater regard on account of its au
authenticity, when we allure the publick, it was oris;
finally written by the son of Columbus, who having
attended his father in his last voyages, was an
l eye-witness of a great many curious facts that occurred
in the course of the undertaking, and who col-vol,
L B levied

II *




2 THE FIRST VOYAGE

!e<fted all the rest of the materials, either from the
Admiral's own papers, or the information of persons
of credit, who bore a share in his first discovery
and settlement of Hispaniola.

Christopher Columbus, who was a native of Genoa,
having been instructed in the arts of navigation
and cosmography, spent the greatest part of
his youth at sea, and seems to have been well acquainted
with all the Portuguese discoveries, from
Cape Nao, in the kingdom of Morocco, to Cape
de Verd, which at that time was the utmost extent
of their navigation.

Christopher happening to be on board of one of
the ships belonging to the famous Corsair Columbus
the younger, when he attacked four large Venetian
galleys near Cape St. Vincent, had the mortification
to see the vessel on fire, so that he was obliged
to commit himself to the sea, in order to avoid
the fury of the flames. Being an excellent swimmer,
he reached the shore, and repaired to Lisbon,
where, by his upright conduct and insinuating behaviour,
he soon acquired a good number of friends,
and engaged the affection of a lady of some fortune,
whom he married with her mother's consent. Among
the papers of his wise's father, who had been
some time dead, he found a great many manuscripts
and charts, the perusal of which not only gratified
a natural inclination he had to the study of cosmo
graphic, butalfo inflamed him with the ambition of
making a discovery which should eclipse every enterprize
of that kind which had been hitherto atchieved.


The more he exercised the power of natural reason,
the more he was persuaded, that so great a part
of the globe as was then unknown, mull consist of
something life than sea, and that it was practicable
to find a shorter way to the Indies by the west, than

that


OF COLUMBUS. 3

that course which the Portuguese adventurers were
then endeavouring to follow ail round Africa to the
southward: for he firmly believed that the East
Indies extended so far easterly as to be within the
reach of a short voyage, performed in a westerly
direction.

Possessed of this notion, which he supported by
a number of plausible arguments, he addressed himself
to John II. king of Portugal, the great patron
of discovery, who listened attentively to his project,
though he did not relish the terms of his proposal,
relating to his own private advantage, in case his endeavours
should meet with success. John therefore
amused him for sometime, during which he thought
he had extracted the marrow of his scheme, and on
pretence of sending supplies to the colony of the Cape
de Verd islands, fitted out a vessel, in order to diff
cover the Indies on his own score : but this ungenerous
enterprize miscarried ; for those charged with
the execution, after a fruitless voyage of many days,
returned to the Cape, fully persuaded that the project
was altogether chimerical.

Columbus so deeply resented this unfair and clan*
define conduct of the king, that he resolved to leave
Portugal, and offer his services to some other power;
j and accordingly withdrew himself into Castile, which
| was then governed by Ferdinand and Isabella, to
whom he presented his plan and proposals : but this
step he did not take till after he had sent his brother
I Bartholomew with the same offers to Henry VII.

I king of England, who in all probability would have
I been the proprietor of the new world, had not Bartholomew
been taken and slipped by pirates in his
passage; so that when he at length arrived in London,'
he was reduced to such extreme poverty as ut

I terry disabled him from promoting his fuit, and obtaining
an audience of his majesty, until, by malkin
gand vending sea-charts, he, in the course of feb

2 vernal





4 THE FIRST VOYAGE

vernal years, acquired some reputation, and at last
found means to communicate the scheme, which met
with all the encouragement he could desire : but by
that time, his brother had actually sailed in the service
of their Castilian majesties. Even Christopher
did not carry his point till after he had persevered
in his sollicitations for the space of eight years, during
which he wrestled with incredible opposition
from the ignorance, obstinacy and envy of the Spaniards.
Nay, his patience was at last quite exhausted
by his fruitless attendance, and he had actually
taken his leave of Ferdinand and Isabella,
intending to try his fortune at the court of France,
and if rejected there to proceed for England in quest
of his brother, of whose fate he was entirely ignorant
; when he was unexpectedly recalled by the
queen of Castile, at the earnest entreaties and persuasion
of Lewis de Saint Angelo her confessor, who
prevailed upon her to comply with the demands of
Columbus, and even lent her money to promote
the expedition.

Christopher was immediately appointed admiral
on the ocean, to enjoy all the appointments, prerogatives
and privileges annexed to the flags of
Castile and Leon in their respective seas; it was
agreed, that all civil employments in the islands
and continent to be discovered, should he wholly
at his disposal; that all governments should be given
to one of thole persons he should name; that
he should appoint judges in Spain for Indian affairs;
that over and above the salary and perquisites of
admiral, viceroy and governour, he should have
the tenth of all that was bought, bartered, found
or acquired within the limits of his admiralfhip,
after the charge of the conquest should be defrayed ;
together with an eighth part of all that he should
bring home in his fleet; in consideration of which,
he should be at one eighth part of the expence.

These


OF COLUMBUS. 5

These articles being fettled, and his commission
and grants confirmed by the hands and feal of their
catholic majesties, the admiral repaired to Palos, in
order to forward his equipment, which consisted of
three small vessels, namely the Santa Maria admiral
Columbus, the La Pinta, Martin Alonzo Pinzon,
and the La Nina with square sails, commanded
by his brother Vincent Yanez Pinzon, both
natives of Palos.

These Caravans being furnished with provisions
necessaries and ninety men, set sail on Saturday the
3d day of August in the year 1492 : next morning
the rudder of the La Pinta broke loose, so that the
admiral was obliged to lie to, though the weather
was so rough that he could give no other affiance 8
than that of encouraging the crew by his presence.
However, Pinzon the captain, who was an able
seaman, loon repaired the damage, which was supposed
to have been contrived by the master, because
he was averse to the voyage; and they proceeded
tolerably well till Tuesday, the sea being high, the
ropes by which the rudder had been secured gave
way, and they were forced again to lie by until
they could put it to rights, so as to fleer the flip as
far as the Canary Lands, which they discovered on
Thursday about break of day. The wind being
in their teeth, two days elapsed before they could
anchor at Gran Canaria, where the admiral left
Pinzon with directions to procure if possible another
ship, while himself, accompanied by the La
Nina, sailed on the same design for the island Go-mere,
which he reached on Sunday. Upon his first
arrival, he sent his boat ashore to inquire after a
vessel, and at his return next day understood that
there was not one in the whole island, though the
inhabitants hourly expected Donna Beatrice de Bo-bacilli
their proprieties from the Gran Canaria ina
vessel of forty turns, which might be easily fitted

B 3 for








6 THE FIRST VOYAGE

for his voyage. In consequence of this intimation
he resolved to wait for her arrival, and in the meantime
sent a man on board of a bark bound for Gran
Canaria to inform Pinzon of the place where he
Jay, and help him to repair his rudder in case he had
not been able to procure another ship. Having
waited a long time in vain for an answer, he resolved
to return to the Gran Canaria, and failing
on the 24th, came up with the bark which had
been hitherto detained by contrary winds: that
same night he sailed close by the island of Generis,
and saw abundance of flame issue from the peak,
and next day anchored at the Gran Canaria, where
he found Pinzon, who told him that the Lady Bea
trim had sailed some days before, in that vessel for

j *

which he had waited so long. Although he was
mortified at this disappointment, he resolved to repair
the damaged Caravan as well as he could, by
furnishing her with a new rudder, and at the same
time to alter the square sails of the La Nina, so as
that she might be the more able to keep company
with her conforts.

Thus refitted and improved they departed from
the Gran Canaria on the 1 ft of September, and
-next day arrived at Genera, where some time being
spent in laying in provisions, wood and water, they
set sail on Thursday the 6th, and flood away to the
westward, though they made little way, because
there was scarce any wind. On Sunday about daybreak
the admiral found himself nine leagues west
of the island Ferro, where they lost sight of land,
and many people on board wept bitterly, on the
supposition that they would hardly ever see it again.
Columbus perceiving this despondence, which he
was afraid would infect the whole company, comforted
them with the most confident assurances of
wealth and prosperity, and though they sailed eighteen



OF COLUMBUS. y

teen leagues that day, pretended they had made no
more but fifteen, resolving to disguise his reckoning
in this manner during the whole voyage, that they
might not think themselves so far from Spain as they
really were.

Continuing his course, he, on Wednesday the
12th of September, being 150 leagues west of Ferro,
discovered the body of a large tree, which fern*
ed to have been a long time upon the water. Here
he found a current setting strongly to the north-east
and when he had run fifty leagues farther weft-ward,
he, on the 13th, in the twilight, perceived,
the needle varying half a point towards the northeast,
and at day-break half a point more. He was
not a little surprised at this variation, which had never
been observed before; but he had reason to be
still more amazed, when sailing about 100 leagues
farther, he found the needles varied about a point
to the north-east at night, and pointed upon the
fear in the morning.

On Saturday, the 15th, being almost 3 cb
leagues west of Ferro, at night, they saw a surprising
body of light fall from the sky into the sea, at
the distance of four or five leagues from the (hips,
to the south-weft, tho the weather was fair, the
wind favourable, the sea smooth, and the current
setting north-east.

The people on board the La Nina had, the proceeding
day, been surprised at sight of a heron and
tropic bird which the Spaniards call raro de junco:
but the next day they were still more astonished,
when they saw the sea, in a manner, covered with
green and yellow weeds, which Teemed to be lately
washed away from some rock or island. From
this phenomenon they concluded that they were
near some land ; especially as they perceived a live
lobster floating among these weeds ; and afterwards
found the sea water grow less fait as they advanced :

B 4 besides.







8 THE FIRST VOYAGE

besides, they were attended by vast shoals of tunny

fish.

On Tuesday, the 18th of September, Martin
Alonzo Pinzon, captain of the Pinta, being a-head,
lay to for the admiral, and told him, that he had
seen a great number of birds flying westward, so
that he expelled that night to discover land, which
indeed he thought he already descried to the northward,
at the distance of fifteen leagues. But this
was a notion to which no regard was paid by the
admiral, who was convinced of its being a deception,
and therefore would lose no time in altering
Its course, notwithstanding the solicitations of his
people, who were very well disposed to credit such
an agreeable illusion. However, as the wind began
to freshen, they took in their topsails at night, this
being the first time they had occasion to trim a sail,
in the space of eleven days, during which theyjflill
continued the course westward.

On the 19th day of September, in the morning,
the admiral seeing a number of sea gulls, began to
conceive hopes of land, from which he supposed
thine fowl would not fly a great way : and in that
opinion, sounding with a line of two hundred fathom,
tho ? he found no bottom, he perceived the
current setting to the south-weft.

On Thursday the 22d they took a bird like an heron,
of a black colour, with a white tuft on the head,
and web feet, flaw abundance of weeds, and in the
evening they were visited by three land birds flinging,
which flew away at day-break, and confirmed
the admiral in the opinion that he could not be far
from land. Next day, they flaw a tropic bird, alcatraz,
and such a quantity of weeds, as alarmed the
people, who began to fear that their course would
be impeded.

About this time, the wind blew from the southwest,
which tho contrary, gave great satisfaction

to


OF COLUMBUS. 9

to the admiral, in as much as he could now convince
the crew of the vanity of their fears, in supposing,
that as the wind had been always right allen, they
should never have a fair gale to carry them back.
Yet, in spite of all his reasons and remonstrances,
the crew began to murmur, in apprehension of perilling
at sea, in quell of a country which was nowhere
to be found \ and their discontent rose to such
a degree of clamour, that in all probability a mutiny
would have ensued, had not a brisk wind sprung up
at well-northwest, and demonstrated that they
would always have a chance for returning, notwithstanding
the insinuations of some, who had affirmed,
that the lirll changeless no fettled breeze, buta
transient puff, which made no impression upon
the surface of the sea: besides, their hope of land
was revived by a turtle that flew over the Flip, and
the flight of several small birds that came from the
well.

The more the people were elated by these signs,
the greater was their mortification, when they found
themselves disappointed : and now, they not only
loudly complained, but even began to cabal against
the admiral, who, they said, from a foolish and ill-grounded
fancy, had formed the design of railing
his own family and fortune at the expence of their
lives and labour; they suggested to one another,
that they had already proceeded far enough to ma
nifell their courage and perseverance, and that it
Was now high time to return to their friends and
country, even if they should be obliged to compel
Columbus to gratify their desire in this particular.
They were the more sanguine in the prosecution of
this scheme, as they supposed the admiral, who was
a foreigner, could'not.have interest enough at court
to bring them to condign punishment for their disobedience
and rebellion, especially as they knew
he had powerful enemies who would embrace ever

5 sy





10 THE FIRST VOYAGE

ry opportunity of frustrating his designs: nay, to
such a pitch of fury were they wrought by their terror
and despair, that some among them actually
proposed to throw him over board, and affirm in
Spain that he had dropped into the sea, while eagerly
employed in making his observations.

Columbus was not ignorant of this mutinous spirit
that possessed his men, and exerted uncommon
address in quelling it, sometimes by representing
the duty they owed to him, who was veiled with a
legal authority, which he was resolved to maintain,
tho at the hazard of his life j and sometimes by reproaching
them with their impatience and pusillanimity,
which even the most apparent signs of
land could not repress, In a word, he refuted their
fears, soothed their disquiets, and encouraged their
hopes, in such a manner as prevented them from
taking any resolution to the prejudice of the enterprize.


Gn Tuesday the 25th day of September, about
fun setting, Pinzon, whose flip was along side of
the admiral, all of a sudden, called out, land ! land!
and pointed towards the south-weft, where they perceived
something like an island, at the distance of
five and twenty leagues: this appearance was so agreeable
to the men, that they gave thanks to God
with great fervency of devotion ; and tho Columbus
did not in his own mind assent to the inference
they had drawn, he, in compliance with their clamorous
demand, flood towards the supposed island,
during the best part of the night, and in the morning
they saw it vanish in the clouds, so that their
dissatisfaction returned, and their clamour was reviewed.
Nevertheless the admiral persisted in the
execution of his purpose, with that steadiness and
Intrepidity which were peculiar to him. On the
Friday following, they caught fish with gilded backs,
which in all probability were dolphins j and here

they


OF COLUMBUS. it

they perceived the currents were altogether irregular.
Next day they saw some alcatrazes or gulls,
and abundance of flying fish, which are in length
about seven or eight inches, furnished with two little
membranous wings, or rather broad sins, by
the help of which they fly above water when pursued
by the dolphins, and very often drop into vessels;
for, as their wings become dry in a very little
time, the utmost extent of their flight does not exceed
a bow-flint.

On Monday, the first day of October, the pilot
of the admiral's (hip was by account 578 leagues
west of the island Ferro; and tho* the reckoning of
Columbus amounted to 707, he winked at the o-
thorns gross mistake, left the Tailors should be quite
dejected by knowing exactly how far they were from
home. On the third, seeing no birds, they conjectured
that they had dipt between some islands;
and the men earnestly entreated the admiral to steer
either to the one side or to the other, in quest of
the land which they imagined they had left: but
he would not comply with their intreaties, because
he was unwilling to lose the favourable wind that
carried him to the west ward, which he accounted
his surest course, and would not take any step to
lessen the reputation of his undertaking, which must
have suffered in the opinion of his people, had he
changed his direction from that which he had all along
allured them, would terminate in the accomplishment
of their wishes. This fortitude of the admiral
they interpreted into obstinacy and madness,
and were actually on the brink of taking some desperate
step to his prejudice, when their fury was
appeased by the arrival of above forty sparrows, and
some other land birds that came from the westwards


On Sunday, the 7th of October, some imperfect
signs of land appeared that way, but no man on

B 6 board








iz THE FIRST VOYAGE

board would venture to mention it, because their
catholick majesties had promised a pension of thirty
crowns for life, to him who should first discover
land. But, in order to prevent their noisy exclamations
at every trifling symptom or conceit, it was
likewise decreed, that whosoever should cry land !
three days before it was actually made, should forfeit
the reward, even tho he should afterwards prove
the discoverer.

Notwithstanding this precaution, the Nina, which
being the best sailer, kept always a-head, fired a
gun, and hoisted the colours, in token of land : but
the farther they sailed, the more they were convinced
of their mistake ; for, the appearance that missed
them totally vanished as they advanced. Next
day, however, they were in some measure consoled
for their disappointment, by many flights of great
fowl and small land birds from the west to the southwest:
and the admiral being fully persuaded that they
could not go far to sea, he, in imitation of the Portuguese,
who had discovered many islands by following
the direction of such birds, altered his course
and flood to the south-weft, having now run 750
leagues to the westward of the Canaries, within
which space he had hoped to find Hispaniola, which
lie then called Cipango.

On Monday, October 8th, they were visited by
twelve Tinging birds, of different colours, and saw
a great number of others, great and small, jays,
gulls, and ducks, flying towards the south-weft;
they likewise perceived the air to be fresh and odoriferous,
as at Sevil in the month of April; but the
crew had been so often deceived, that even these certain
signs could not suppress their murmurs, which,
during the two succeeding days, increased to such a
degree, in spite of all the efforts of the admiral, that
he would not have been able much longer to with-land
the storm of their discontent, which was rear

dy


OF COLUMBUS. 13

dy to burst in open rebellion, when it was providentially
dissipated by such manifest tokens of the
neighbourhood of land, as they could no longer discredit.


On Thursday, the nth of October, those onboard
of the admiral saw a green ruth, together
with a large rock fish fvvim by the (hip ; the people
of the Pinta discovered a cane floating, and took
up a (tass curiously wrought, together with a small
board, and abundance of weeds, newly washed from
the banks: at the same time, the crew of the Nina
perceived a branch of thorn full of red berries.

The admiral being now aspired of the vicinity of
land, harangued his men at night, after prayers,
reminding them of the mercy of God, in granting
them fair weather during such a long voyage, and
exhorting them to be extremely vigilant for that
night, in as much as he firmly expected to see land
next day ; and in order to encourage them to be
watchful, he not only mentioned the pension of
thirty crowns, but also promised to give a velvet
doublet to him who should be the first discoverer*
After this speech, he, about ten o'clock at night,
retired to the great cabbin, from whence perceiving
what appeared to be a light on shore, he called
to one Peter Gutierres, who being desired to observe,
said, he plainly saw it, and conjectured it to
be a candle or torch belonging to some fisherman
or traveller, because it seemed to move, and vanished,
and appeared by turns. This appearance
increased their vigilance and caution, tho they still
held on their course till about'two in the morning,
when the Pinta being far a-head gave the signal of
land, which was first discovered by a sailor, called
Frederick de Triana, at the distance of two leagues:
but he did not enjoy the pension, which was granted
to the Admiral, who had before perceived the
light.


Being





14 THE FIRST VOYAGE

Being so near the shore, all the ships lay to, and
the people waited for morning with the utmost impatience
of hope, that they might feast their eyes
with what they had so long and so eagerly wished
to behold.

Day no sooner broke than they perceived an
island, about fifteen leagues in length, almost one
continued plain, without hills, covered with green
trees, supplied with delicious streams, and a great
lake in the middle; and inhabited by a number of
people, who ran down to the shore astonished at
the sight of the ships, which they at first mistook
for living creatures. As for the Spaniards, they
were inflamed by the most eager curiosity, to know
the particulars of this interesting discovery : and the
vessels were no sooner brought to an anchor, than
the admiral went afloat with his boat well armed,
and the royal standard displayed, being attended by
the other two captains in their respective boats, with
the particular ensigns of this enterprize, distinguished
by an F. with a green cross on one side, and the
names of Ferdinand and Isabella crowned on the other.


As soon as they landed, they kneeled on the
shore, giving thanks to God for his indulgence*
and kissed the ground while they shed tears of joy,
then the admiral slanting up, called the island St.
Salvador, and took possession of it for their catholick
majesties in the usual words, and with the solemnity
proper on such occasions. This ceremony being
performed, he was acknowledged as admiral and
viceroy, by the Spaniards, who joyfully swore to
obey him as the representative of their majesties,
and implored his pardon for the affronts and insults
he had sustained, from their fear, and want of resolution.


A great number of the Indians being present at
the transaction, and appearing to be be very Ample,

quiet.




page ' 4 -



flSinwm-R.




"StAugnttm"


The

West Indies


jTSainuiur' w i\

SerCat I.1441


O&jiefur


d- I -j Cozumel


mexico


Stygian tie TTloa

C\ 4* A




Scrub


Santi&na mCmmoI-


GnaAelnpe ^


Jia/o del Corner


-Mattmiccr


'Jl. S*\7ofuv


&.I > ryia^er?o
C.SlCu/nlina ^


Tcmiiai


Culellc


.quinine amnii


































































































































































>

s

l



i

l





»

l

o

u


OF COLUMBUS. 15

quiet, and peaceable, Columbus distributed among
them some red caps, firings of glass beads, and other
things of small value, which they received with
transport, and seemed to prize 'at a very high rate.
Nay, when he returned to his flip, some of them
swam after him, and others followed in canoes with
parrots, bottoms of spun cotton, javelins, and other
trifles, to barter for beads, bells, and other inconsiderable
toys. Few of them seemed to be above the
age of thirty. They were of a middle stature, well
shaped, of an olive colour, with thick lank black
hair, generally cut short above the ears, tho in
some it had grown down to their shoulders, and
was tied about their head like the tresses of women
; their countenances were open, and their features
regular, but their high foreheads gave a wildness
to their aspect. The faces of some, and bodies
of others, were painted black, white, and red, tho
in a few, the noses and eyes only were coloured;
and all of them, female as well as male, were stark
naked. So little were they acquainted with European
arms, that they handled a naked sword by the
edge, without suspecting its mischievous quality;
and as they were destitute of iron, they used javelins
of wood, armed with fifth bone.

Some of them being asked by signs, how they
had acquired the wounds, the marks of which they
still retained on their bodies, answered, in the same
kind of language, that they received them in their
own defence, against the inhabitants of other islands,
who came with a view to enslave them. They
seemed to be an ingenious people, and possessed a
volubility of tongue, so as to repeat the words they
heard with a very distinct pronunciation: and the
only species of living creatures that the island produced,
were parrots, which they bartered to the Christians,
as we have already observed.

Next














i6 THE FIRST VOYAGE

Next day, being the 13th of October, in the
morning, a great number of these Indians came a -
board in their canoes, which are made by hollowing
the trunk of a tree, some of them being so small
as to hold one person only, and others large enough
to contain forty ; they are rowed with paddles, and
so light, that if they chance to be overset, the rowers
can easily set them upright again, and empty
the water with calabaflies, which they keep for that
purpose.

They had no jewels, nor was any kind of metal
found among them, except some small plates of
gold that hung at their nostrils, and as they expressed
by signs came from the south and south-weft,
where there were many princes, islands, and countries.
- v

They were so greedy of possessing any thing belonging
to the Spaniards, that if they could pick up
a bit of broken earthen ware upon the deck, they
would leap into the sea and swim ashore with it;
and they would exchange any thing they had for the
greatest trifles, insomuch that some of them gave
five and twenty pounds of well spun cotton for three
small pieces of Portuguese brass coin not worth a
farthing; not that they believed the things they
purchased, had in themselves much intrinfick value,
but because they belonged to the white men, whom
they looked upon as people descended from heaven,
and of whom they desired to retain some memorial.


Next Sunday, being the 15th of October, the
admiral in his boats, coasted the island towards
the north-weft, until he found a large bay or
harbour, large enough to* contain all the ships of
Christendom. In this circuit he was attended by
crowds of the inhabitants, who followed him by
sea and land, expressing their wonder and regard
by a thousand gesticulations , and arrived at a

peninsula.


OF COLUMBUS. 17

peninsula, where he saw half a dozen of their
houses and plantations, as pleasant as those of
Castile in the month of May. But, finding this
was not the land he looked for, he took seven of
these Indians to serve as interpreters, and returning
to his ships sailed on the discovery of other islands
that were discernible from the peninsula, reported
by the inhabitants of St. Salvador to be fruitful and
populous.

On Monday, having sailed seven leagues, he arrived
at the west end of one, about ten leagues in
length, which he denominated St. Mary of the Conception
; but, perceiving no difference between the
inhabitants of this island and those of St. Salvador,
nor any thing elfe worth notice in its productions,
he continued his course westward, and anchored upon
the coast of another larger island, extending
north-weft and southeast, above eight and twenty-leagues.
Before he reached this pleasant spot, which
he named Fernandina, he took up at sea an Indian
in a small canoe, furnished with a piece of their
bread, a calabash full of water, and a little earth like
vermilion, with which those people paint their bodies
; he was likewise provided with same dry leaves,
valued for their agreeable and wholesome smell - 3 and
a little basket, containing a firing ofglafs beads, and
two small pieces of Portuguese money ; from which
circumstances it appeared he was bound from St.
Salvador to Fernandina, with the strange news of
the admiral's arrival; but the voyage being long, he
was weary with paddling, and defined to be taken
on board. Columbus granted his request, treated
him courteously, and sent him on shore, that he
might prepossess the natives of Fernandina in favour
of the new comers. The success answered the
admiral's expectation; for, in consequence of the
favourable account given by the Indian, the islanders
came aboard in their canoes, to barter with

the





18 THE FIRST VOYAGE

the same sort of commodities which were found at
St. Salvador; but they seemed to have more sagacity
than the other, and made more advantageous
bargains; they had some cotton cloth in their houses,
and the women wore a kind of short petticoat
or swathed round the middle. Here were some trees
that seemed to have been ingrafted, as they bore
leaves or branches of four or five several sorts: there
was plenty of fish, of different shapes and colours,
lizards and snakes, and some dogs, which however
did not bark; their houses were built like tents,
almost entirely void of furniture; and the beds in
which they Jay, were like nets hanging from two
posts, and drawn together in the nature of a sling.

Finding nothing valuable in this island, Columbus,
on Friday, Odfober 19th, failed to another, on
which he bellowed the name of Isabella, in honour
of her moll: catholick majesty. This, in goodness,
beauty and extent, far exceeded the others; for,
besides that it abounded with delicious streams, pleasant
meadows and groves, the prospect was divers—
shed with hills, which the rest wanted. The admiral
enamoured of its beauty, landed to perform the
ceremony of taking possession, and walked through
some meadows as green and delightful as those of
Spain in the month of April. Here the ear was ra
wished with the songs of nightingales and other birds,
which not only hopped from bough to bough, but
even flew through the air in such swarms, as darkened
the day. Near one of the lakes, of which there
was great plenty, the Spaniards, with their spears,
killed an alligator seven feet long, which tho at
that time they looked upon with horror, they afterwards
skinned and ate, as the most delicious food
used among the Indians, by whom they are called
yvanas.

Proceeding towards the inland parts, they arrived
at a town, the people of which fled with all the

goods


OF COLUMBUS. .19

goods they could carry off; but, the admiral forbidding
his men to touch any thing they had left, their
fear soon subsided ; and they, of their own accord,
came down to the (hips to barter.

Columbus, having made himself acquainted with
the produce of Isabella, and the manners of its inhabitants,
was unwilling to lose more time among
those islands which resembled one another so much;
and therefore he set sail with a fair wind for a large
country, extolled by the Indians under the name of
Cuba, lying towards the south, at the north side
of which he arrived on Sunday the 28th of October.


This island at first sight justified what had been
said in its praise; for it exhibited a mo ft enchanting
variety of hills and dales, woods and plains, and appeared
to be of great consequence, by the greatness
and extent of its coasts and rivers.

In order to obtain some intelligence of the natives,
the admiral anchored in a large river, the
banks of which were (hated by thick and tall trees,
adorned with blossoms and fruit altogether unknown
in Europe : these were tenanted by a great number
of birds, and the ground was clothed with grass of
a most luxuriant growth. The Spaniards, not far
from this place, entered two houses which were deserted
by the people, who terrified at the appearance
of the (hips, had betaken themselves to flight, leaving
their nets and fishing-tackle, together with a dog
that did not bark. However, they sustained no damage;
for the Christians, without touching any of
their utensils, remarked, and continued their
course westward, until they arrived at the mouth
of another river, which the admiral called de Mares.
This being more confiderable than the other, the
ships entered and sailed up a good way, and the
banks were all along inhabited; but here too the
natives fled, with all the effects they could carry, to




ao THE FIRST VOYAGE

the mountains, which appeared round and Iofty^
covered with verdant plants and (lately trees.

Columbus foreseeing that he should never be able
to learn the nature of the island, if the inhabitants
should continue to avoid him in this manner \ and
reflecting, that in case he should land with a number
of men, their terror would be increased, he ordered
two Christians, attended by an Indian of St.
Salvador, and another of-cuba who had ventured
to come aboard with his canoe, to travel up into
the country, and behave obligingly to the people
they should find 3 and in the mean time he directed
the flip to be careened : on which occasion he
observed that all their fuel was maffick wood, of
which there was great plenty all over the island.

The flip was repaired and ready to sail by the
5th of November, when the two ambassadors returned,
accompanied by two Indians of rank, and
informed the amiral that they had travelled twelve
leagues into the country, where they found a town
consisting of fifty wooden houses covered with straw,
made like those in the other islands, which altogether
contained about one thousand persons; that
they were met by the principal men of the. place,
who led them by the arms to the town, where
they were accommodated with a spacious long
in which they sat upon wooden seats, formed in the
shapes of strange animals, with their tails lifted up
for leaning places, and eyes and ears of gold. While
the Christians lolled upon these benches, called
duchy , the Indians sat around them on the floor,
and then came one by one to kiss the hands and feet
of the strangers, whom they supposed had come from
heaven : they, at the same time, treated them with
feme boiled roots, not unlike chesnuts in table, and
earnestly entreated them to slay some days, in order
to repose and refresh themselves. After the men
had thus fulfilled the rites of hospitality, they retired


OF COLUMBUS. at

and made room for the women, who, with the same
expressions of veneration, kissed the hands and feet
of the Spaniards, whom they likewise entertained
with their homely fare. This favourable reception
they owed to their two Indian attendants, who had
represented the Christians as a humane and generous
people. When they set out on their return
for the flip, a great number of people proposed to
accompany them, but they refused this courteous
offer, and would accept of none but the king and
his son, whom the admiral treated with great civility
and respects In their return, under the protection
of this escorte, the two Spaniards had been
kindly entertained at several petty towns, and met
with a great number of the inhabitants, who always
carried lighted brands to kindle their fires, with
which they roasted those roots which constituted
their chief food, and to perfume themselves with
certain herbs they gathered for that purpose. They
likewise saw a variety of birds and fowl, among
which were partridges and nightingales, but no quadrupeds,
except those filent dogs we have already
mentioned : great part of the land was cultivated
and bore, besides the bread-root, and a sort ofjbeans,
a kind of grain called ?nail y of which was made a
very well tailed flour. Their principal manufacture
was cotton, of which the Christians saw vast quantities
well spun ; and this they gather from trees
that grow spontaneously, without the lead: ?care or
culture. The Indians afterwards carried great quantities
of this cotton on board of the ships, where
they exchanged a baskets for a thong of leather ;
indeed it could be of no great value to themselves,
inasmuch as they go naked, and make nothing of
it but hammocks and short aprons for the women.


They had no gold, pearls or spice, but pointed
towards the east, to a country called Bohio, in

which








THE FIRST VOYAGE

which there was great plenty—It was in consequence
of this information that the admiral resolved
to sail thither; but before he departed from Cuba,
he took twelve Indians, men ,women and children,
whom he intended to carry into Spain ; and
this seizure was made with so little disturbance,
that a man who was husband to one of the females,
came aboard in his canoe, and begged he might accompany
his wife and children : the admiral being
very well pleased with this instance of natural affection,
granted his request, and treated them with
great tenderness.

That 0me day being the 13th of November,
he returned to the eastward for the island Bohio;
but the wind blowing hard at north, he was
obliged to come to an anchor again, among some
highlands near a large harbour which he called del
Principe : the sea in the neighbourhood of this port,
being covered with islands that lay so close together,
that the greatest distance between any two of them
did not exceed a quarter of a league : they produced a
number of green trees, among others the maffick,
aloes and palm, and though they were not inhabited,
the people of Cuba resort to them in their canoes,
and live sometime upon them, supported by
the fish and fowl they catch, together with what
they find upon the surface of the earth ; for they
are not at all nice in their appetite: on the contrary,
they make no scruple to eat what we think
not only unclean but even venemous, such as spiders,
raw fish and worms that breed in rotten
wood-hin one of these islands, the Spaniards killed
a beast like a Badger, caught a fish that resembled
an hog, found a good quantity of mother of
pearl in the Tea, and observed that the rise and
fall of the tide was more inconsiderable than in any
other place which they had visited in these Teas.

On





OF COLUMBUS. 23

On Monday, November 19th, Columbus put to
sea from Princess Port, fleering eastward for the
Land of Bohio or Hispaniola; but the wind being
contrary, he was forced to ply two or three days
between the islands of Cuba and Isabella 5 and in
this interval, he was deserted by Martin Alonzo Pinzon,
who having been informed by some Indians
whom he concealed in his caravan, that Bohio
abounded with gold, made use of the advantage he
derived from his vessel which was a prime sailer,
and left Columbus in the night, with a view to anticipate
his success, and engross the treasure of that
wealthy country-side admiral being thus abandoned
by one of his conforts, and the weather
growing so rough that he could not keep the sea,
he returned to another harbour in Cuba, which he
named St. Catherine: here while the crews were
employed in taking in wood and water, he by accident
perceived signs of gold on some stones in the
river, and, farther up in the country, saw mountains
covered with such tall pines as would furnish
mails for the largest Chips 5 and there was plenty of
excellent oak for planks. In his run along the
coast, for ten or twelve leagues to the south-seas,
he discovered many large rivers and excellent harbours,
and was so ravished with the beauty of the
country, that in mentioning the place which he
called Puerto santo, he says he entered the river
where he found from five to eight fathoms of water
\ and proceeding a considerable way farther up
in his boat, he was delighted with the transparency
of the water, through which he could plainly see the
sandy bottom, and with abundance and variety of
verdant plains and lofty trees, inhabited by birds of
different notes and plumage ; so that he was even
tempted in this delicious spot to fix his habitation
for life. In this progress he saw a canoe drawn
upon land, as large as a twelve oar barge, and in

an












14 THE Firs T VOYAGE

an house hard by, he found a ball of wax and a
mans skull in two baskets hanging at a post : but,
no person appeared, from whom they could receive
the leaf! information. They afterwards saw
another canoe seventy feet in length, capable of
containing fifty men, tho made from the simple
trunk of a tree,

Columbus having failed 106 leagues along shore,
arrived at the east end of Cuba, which he called
Alpha; and on Wednesday, December 5th, struck
oft' for Hispaniola, which, tho but at the distance
of sixteen leagues, he was by the currents
prevented from reaching till next day, when he anchored
in port St. Nicholas, so named by him in
honour of that saint whose festival it happened to
be. This harbour is large, deep, safe, and encompassed
with many tall trees; tho the country is
rocky, and the trees in general not so large as those
of Cuba ; here however he found small oaks,
myrtle and other shrubs, with a pleasant river that
ran along a plain towards the port, round which he
saw canoes as large as 1 5 oar barges. However,
he could not establish any intercourse with the inhabitants,
who fled at his approach, so that he ran
along the coast to the northward, until he arrived
at a port which he called the Conception, lying
almost: due south of a small island afterwards known
by the name of Tortuga.

Observing that this land of Bohio was very extensive,
and resembled the coast of Spain not only
in the trees and plants, but also in the fishes ; for
they had caught holes, salmon, pilchards and crabs ;
the admiral bellowed upon it the appellation of
Efpannola—Here he saw numbers of natives who
fled from his men with great precipitation ; but at
length, having caught a young woman who had a
plate of gold hanging at her nose, she was carried
to the ships and presented with several baubles,

such


OF COLUMBUS. 2 5

such as bells, and glass, then, without having received
the least insult, dismissed to the town where
file dwelt, attended by three Indians and as many
Spaniards.

Next day, eleven men going ashore well armed,
travelled four leagues up the country to a town or
village confiding of a thousand houses, and tHo*
the inhabitants betook themselves to their heels, as
usual, they soon returned, at the persuasion of a St.
Salvador Indian, who went after them, and represented
the Christians in a favourable light. Being
now possessed with a firm belief that the Spaniards
had come from heaven, they gazed upon them
with equal astonishment and awe, preferred them
with victuals, and pressed them to slay all night in
their village. The Spaniards declined accepting
this invitation, and returning to the ships, reported
that the county was pleasant and fertile, and
the people whiter and handsomer than those whom
they had hitherto seen ; that they were traceable
and courteous, and gave them to underhand that
the gold country lay farther to the eastward.

The admiral hearing this account, set sail immediately
; and on the 15th day of December, while
he plied between Hispaniola and Tortuga, in a very
rough sea, he took up an Indian from a little
canoe, whom he was surprized to see live in such
tempestuous weather, and set him safe ashore, with
some presents of small value. This man having
signified to his countrymen how kindly he had
been treated, they ventured to come aboard, but
brought nothing of consequence, except some small
grains of gold hanging to their ears and nostrils,
of which, as they expressed by signs, there was a
great quantity higher up in the country.

Next day, while the Spaniards w r ere on shore,
bartering with the cacique or lord of that distinct
for a plate of gold, a canoe with forty men .

I. C preached














26 THE FIRST VOYAGE

preached from the island of Tortuga, and the
cacique no sooner perceived them, than he and his
people sat down on the strand, in signal that they
should not commit hostilities: notwithstanding this
token of peace, they landed ; upon which he rose,
and by dint of threats induced them to re-embark,
then he presented a sone to one of the Spanifh
officers, desiring him to throw it at the Tortugans,
as a proof that'll would espouse the cause of the
Christians against the Indians of the canoe, who
immediately returned to their own island.

On Tuesday December 18th, the same cacique
came down in hate, being carried on a palatine,
and attended by two hundred men as naked as himself;
he without scruple went on board of the admiral,
who was at dinner, and entered the cabbin
without ceremony, accompanied by two antient
men, who seemed to be his chief counsellors, and
sat down at his feet. He was received with great
civility and respects, and treated with victuals and
wine, which having tasted, he sent ro his people
who remained on deck. After dinner, during
which he and his ministers spoke very little, and
that with great gravity and deliberation, he pre
fenced the admiral with a wrought girdle and two
thin pieces of gold ; in return for which he received
a counterpane, a firing of fine amber beads
from the admiral's own ned, a pair of red shoes,
and a bottle of orange-dower water, which were
so agreeable to the prince, that he and his counsel
lors told Columbus the whole island was at his
command. - 1 hen the admiral surprized him with
the sight of a gold medal damped with the effigies
of Ferdinand and Isabella, which he considered
with admiration, and indeed expressed signs of astonishment
at every thing he saw. In the evening he
was, at his own desire, sent ashore in the fliip’s boat,
and saluted with the discharge of several guns, the

noise




VI


OF COLUMBUS. 27

noise of which filled him with terror and amazement
: however, he was so well pleaded with his
reception, that he ordered his people to entertain
the Spaniards who conduced him to land, and returned
to the place of his sentence, the admiral's
presents being carried before him with great pomp
and ostentation.

On Monday the 24th of December, the admiral
weighed and failed to Punta Sancta, where he
anchored about a league from shore, and the weather
being quite calm, he retired to red, which he
had not enjoyed for two days: the crew followed
his example, and contrary to the orders he had always
given, left a boy at the helm. This their neglect
and disobedience proved fatal to the vessel,
which about midnight was carried by the current
upon a ridge of rocks, before one soul on board
was aware of the danger. 'The admiral himself
was the find, who being waked by the cries of the
boy at the helm, ran upon deck, where perceiving
their situation, he ordered the mater and three
Tailors to take the boat and carry out an anchor
adorn. They accordingly jumped into the boat,
but indeed of obeying his directions, rowed to the
other caravan, for the preservation of their own
lives : he immediately caused the mats to be cutaway,
and the vessel to be lightened as much as
possible ; but all his efforts were ineffectual, and the
water ebbing away, her seams opened, and all below
deck was full of water. In this emergency,
the boat returned from the other caravan, which
would not receive the men who had run away with
her; and the admiral seeing no hopes of saving his
own dip, carried his men on boarders the other,
with which he lay to till morning, and then approached
the land within the shoal, after having
dispatched messengers to inform the king of his
misfortune, and sollicit the advance of the natives

C 2 in











28 THE FIRST VOYAGE

in unloading the vessel. The cacique condoled the
Christians with tears in his eyes, and ordered his
people to repair in their canoes to the wreck, and
obey the admiral's directions. By the assistance of
these shortest and friendly savages, every thing of
value was carried ashore, and deposited in houses
appointed for that purpose, which were guarded
with such vigilance and fidelity, that nothing of
any consequence was lost.

On Wednesday December 26th, this hospitable
prince made another visit to the admiral, whom he
consoled for his loss with many demonstrations of
sorrow and sympathy, told him he might command
his whole fortune, presented him with some vizor
masks, the eyes, nose and ears of which were
made of gold, and perceiving how fond the Spaniards
were of that metal, promised to send for a
great quantity from a place called Cebao: meanwhile
a canoe arrived from some other island, with
Indians who brought plates of gold to exchange for
bells, which they valued above every other commodity
; and the seamen ashore carried on a trade
with the natives of Hispaniola, who came from the
inland part of the country, and bartered gold for
points and other trifles.

Columbus was so well pleased with the nature
and productions of this island, as well as with the
manners of the inhabitants, that he resolved to
seale a colony of Spaniard, who, by maintaining
a friendly intercourse with the natives, might learn
their language and customs, and acquire such informal
n of the wealth and situation of the different
parts of the island, as could not fail turning
out greatly to the advantage of Spain. This step
he was the more encouraged to take, because many
of his men voluntarily offered to stay, and the
cacique, far from taking umbrage at their neighbourhood,
considered them as valuable allies, who

would








OF COLUMBUS. 29

would protect them from the invasions of the Carried
Indians, a savage race of Canibals, by whom
his subjects 'were frequently killed and devoured. -
Iii order to evince the importance of his friendship,
he, in presence of this prince, whose name was
Guacanagari, ordered a great gun to be fired
again ft the side of the wreck, through which the
bullet penetrated, and fell into the water on the
other side, to the amazement of the Indians, who
believed that their guests were in possession of head
venus thunder, and earnestly implored their protection.


It was therefore seemingly in compliance with
the cacique request, that the admiral ordered a
tower to be built of the timber of the wrecked
vessel, and this being furnished with provision,
ammunition, arms and cannon, he manned it
with a garrison of six and thirty men, under the
joint command of James d 5 Arana, Peter Gutierres
and Frederick d’ Efkovedo, whom he earnestly recommended
to the favour and good offices of the
king and his people. Having provided this sort
with all necessaries, including the boat belonging to
the fbln that was lost, be resolved to return diredilv
to C assise, lest force other misfortune happening: tot
e only ship that now remained, might disable
him for ever from giving their Catholic majesties
information of the important discoveries he had
already made, and the countries he had annexed to
their dominions. Having therefore made all the
requisite preparations for the voyage, he set sail
from the port of Nativity, where he had fettled this
first Christian colony, on Friday the 4th day of
January at fun-rising, and Handing to the northwest,
to. get clear of the shoal water, took such
marks of the land as would enable him to know
the mouth of the harbour in any future expedition.
The wind being contrary, he had made but little

C 3 way






3o THE FIRST VOYAGE

way to the eastward, when on Sunday morning he
iel-J in with the caravan Pinta, commanded by
Martin Alonzo Pinzon, who going on board, endeavoured
to excuse his desertion, by saying he had
lost fights the admiral in the night, and alledging
other frivolous reasons, the fallacy of which
tho ; Columbus plainly saw, he disguised his fen tint
ends, rather than run any risque of prejudicing
the common cause, by giving rise to a dangerous
distension ; for, almost all the people engaged in
this expedition were either relations or townsmen
of Pinzon.

He had failed to a river fifteen leagues to the
eastward of the Nativity, where he spent sixteen
days in bartering with the natives for gold, of
which he had obtained a large quantity, and distributed
one half among his crew, in order to acquire
popularity, as well as their consent to keep what
remained for his own use: so that he carefully
concealed his success from the knowledge of the
admiral. After this transaction, he anchored at
Monte Chrifto, a round hill like a pavilion* about
eighteen leagues east of Cape Santo j but, the
weather not permitting him to proceed, he went in
his boat up a river to the south-weft of the mount,
and discovering some signs of gold dust in the fund,
called it the river of gold, being seventeen leagues
to the eastward of the Nativity.

On Sunday January 13th, being near Cane Lena'
dorado, the admiral sent his boat ashore, where
there flood some Indians with fierce countenances,
armed with bows and arrows, making a (how of
opposition, tho they seemed to be in great consternation.
However, by the mediation of the Salvador
linguist, they were brought to a kind of conference,
and one of hern venturing to go on board
of the admiral, appeared so ferocious, both in his
speech, and afpedRwhich was fitted with charcoal,

that


OF Col M B U S. 31

that the Spaniards concluded he was one of the
Caribbee Caliban, and that the bay parted this
place from Hispaniola: but, when the admiral
inquired ‘ about the country of the Carries, he
pointed with his finger to an island farther east, and
gave him to underhand that there was another
near it, wholly inhabited by women with whom
the Carries conversed at a certain season of the
year, and carried off all the male children that
Sprung from their embraces. Having answered all
these interrogations, partly by signs and partly by
means of the Indian interpreter, he was entertained
with victuals, and set ashore, with presents
of glass beads, and bits of red and green cloth,
that he might persuade his countrymen to bring
clown good to barter.—At the place where he was
landed, there was a sort of ambuscade of fifty men
with long hair, adorned with plumes of parrot
feathers 3 who being armed with bows and arrows,
and great cudgels in lieu of swords, refused to carry
.on any trade with the Spaniards, notwithstanding
the exhortations of their friend, but, on the
contrary treated them with scorn, and even began
to commit hostilities. The Christians, who were
but seven in all, seeing them advance with fury in
their looks, met them half way, and charging
them with great intrepidity, cut one with a sword
on the buttock, and shot another with an arrow in
the bread, to the terror and discomfiture of the
whole party, who forthwith turned their backs and
fled, leaving their bows and arrows on the spot;
ani many of them would certainly have been
killed, had not the pilot of the caravan interposed in
their behalf. 1 he admiral was not displeased at this
skirmish, which he thought would inspire the Indians
with such high notions of the valour of the
Christians, as would hinder them from making any
attempts to the prejudice of the settlement at the

C 4 Nat ivity:











32 THE FIRST VOYAGE

Nativity : for, he did not doubt that all the inhabitants
of the island would soon hear, how fevers
Spaniards had attacked, and routed above fifty of
their mod warlike natives.

Their bows were of yew, and very near as large
as those used-in France and England, and the arrows
made of small freight solid twigs, about a
yard in length, armed with fish-bone smeared with
poison ; so that the admiral gave to this gulph,
which the Indians called Samana, the name of
Golf de Fleas, that is the Gulph of Arrows.
Here they saw abundance of fine cotton, and axi,
which is a very pungent kind of pepper, much
in request among the natives; and on the shore
grew a vast quantity of those weeds they had seen
boating in the lea, during their passage from the
Canaries.

On Wednesday January i 6th, both caravans being
in a leaky condition, the admiral set sail f r
Spain from the gulph of Samana, and Cape St.
Elms was the last land they saw. When they had
run about forty leagues to the north-east, the sea
seemed to be covered with small tunny fishes,
abundance of which they saw for two or three days
successively, together with great numbers of sea
fowl. Continuing their course with a fair wind,
they made so much way, that on the 9th day of
February, in the opinion of the pilots, they were
south of the islands Azores; but by the admiral's
account, they were short of them 150 leagues $
and he was in the right: for, they Fill saw abundance
cf those weeds which they had not discovered
in their passage to the Weft-Indies, until
they were 263 leagues to the weft-ard of Ferro.

After having hitherto enjoyed a favourable gale,
the wind began to rise, and the sea to run mountains
high; and they were overtaken by such a
tempest on the 14th of February, that they could

not


OF COLD M B U S. 33

not work their vessels which were toiled about at
the mercy of the storm. The caravan Pinta being
incapable of sailing upon a wind, ran away
due north before it, and in the night lost sight of
the admiral, who Peered north-east, in order to
fetch the coast of Spain. In consequence of this
reparation, the company of each caravan concluded
that the other had perished, and betaking themselves
to adds of devotion, it fell to the admiral's
lot to go a pilgrimage for the whole crew to our
lady of Guadaloupe; one of the seamen was des
lined to go to Lorenzo, and another to watch a
whole night at St. Slave of Moguer : in a word,
the fury of the wind and sea still increasing, the
whole company joined in a vow to walk barefoot
and in their flirts to some church dedicated to the
Blessed Virgin, upon the first land that should receive
them. Their situation was rendered still
more deplorable by thefcarcity of provision, and the
want of ballast, by which the flip was in danger
of being overset. To remedy this inconvenience,
the admiral ordered his casks to be filled with sea
water, and that his discovery might have some
chance of being known, whatever might be the
fate of him and his people, he wrote a brief account
of it upon two skins of parchment, which he
wrapped in oil cloths, covered with wax, and put
into separate casks, which he threw into the sea
after their bungs were well secured Toping that one
or other might be taken up by some European
vessel.

Before this storm had in the least abated, on
Friday the 15th of February, at break of day, one
of the sailors from the round top discovered land
to the east-north-east, which the pilot judged to bethe
rock of Lisbon, tho the admiral supposed it to
be one of the Azores: but the weather being
unruly and the wind blowing off store, they disco

5 vexed












34 THE Fir ST VOYAGE

vexed another, which proved to be St. Mary, where
they made shift to anchor on Monday, tho } not
without great labour and difficulty, the admiral being
lame of both legs, in consequence of the fatigue
he had undergone. The inhabitants of this island,
who came on board with some fresh provisions,
and many compliments from the governor, who
lived at the town which w 7 as at a great distance,
were amazed at the success of the expedition, and
seemed to rejoice at the discovery of Columbus.
'They were likewise surprized to see he had outlived
the dorm, which, according to their account, had
Sailed fifteen days without intermission ; and as they
said, there was in this neighbourhood an hermitage
dedicated to the Blessed Virgin, the admiral and
crew resolved to perform their vow by walking
thither barefoot, especially as the people and governor
expressed such affection, and belonged to
a prince in amity with their Castilian majesties.

He therefore sent the caravans boat ashore,
with one half of the company, to fulfil this penance,
with orders to return immediately, that the
red might succeed them in the same sort of devotion
: but, they had no sooner undressed themselves: s
and begun their precession, than they were attacked
and made prisoners by the governor, and a num-her
of people w ? ho had lain in ambush for that purpose.
Columbus having waited in vain, from daybreak
till noon, for the return of the boat, began
to suspends foul play, and as he could not, where he
lay, discover the hermitage, he sailed round a point
from whence he could see it, and perceived a good
may Portuguese on horseback alight and enter
the boat, with intent, as he supposed, to attack
the caravan. He therefore ordered his men to be
upon their guard, and was not without hope that
the commander would come on board, in which
case he would have detained him as an hostage:

5 - but


OF COLUM 3 U S. 35

but as the Portuguese would not advance beyond a
certain distance, the admiral demanded their reason
for committing such an outrage upon his men, who
had gone ashore upon the faith of a safe conduct,
and gave him to underhand that the king of Portugal
would certainly be offended at such behaviour
to the subjects of their catholic majesties, with
whom he was in alliance. To this remonstrance,
the Portuguese captain answered, that what they
had done was by the express order of the king; so
that Columbus imagining there Wis a breach between
the two crowns, called all his people to bear
witness to what they had heard, and directing his
discourse to the Portuguese swore he would never
quit the caravan, until he should have taken roo
Portuguese, and destroyed the whole bland. Meanwhile
he returned to the port he had left, but next
day the wind increasing, and his riding being unsafe,
he lost his anchors, and was obliged to stand
out to sea towards the island of St. Michael, tho
not without being exposed to great danger, as he
had but three able seamen left, the rest being boys,
Indians and landmen, who understood nothing of
sea affairs—Next day, the weather being mild, he
endeavoured to recover the island of St. Mary,
which he reached on Thursday 21ft, in the afternoon,
and soon after his arrival, the boat came off'
with five men and a notary, who upon proper security
went on board, and desired to know, in the
governors name, whence the flip came, and
whether or not the admiral had the king of Spain's
commission. Being satisfied in these particulars,
they went ashore, and released the Spaniards, who
had been informed that the king of Portugal had
sent orders to all his governors, to secure, if possible,
the person of the admiral; and that, as this
scheme did not succeed, they had dismissed the prim
lovers whom they had taken.

C 6


Columbus











3 6 THE* FIRST VOYAGE

Columbus having recovered his men, departed from
the island of St. Mary, on Sunday the 24th of February,
being in great want of wood and ballads,
though the wind was favourable. On the 3d of
March they were exposed to another tempest, attended
with lightning and thunder, during which
their sails were fp-lit; and they vowed another pilgrimage
to our lady de.Ci.nta at Guelva: they now
ran under their bare poles through a terrible Ha, and
had well nigh been lost on the rock of Lisbon, which
they accidentally discovered at midnight,: this they
weathered with great difficulty ; and next day being
obliged to come to an anchor in the river Tagus,
the admiral sent away an express to their catholic
majesties with the news of his arrival; and another
to the king cf Portugal, astir g leave to anchor before
the city, as he did not think himself safe in his
present situation.

On ’ tuesday March 5th, the rafter of a great
^ iiardft io came, with a boat full of armed men along
side of the admiral, whom he required to go
and give an account of himself to the king's offers,
according to the practice cf al! ships that
entered that river. To this summons Columbus
replied, that as the king of Spain's .admiral, he
would not degrade himself so far as to comply with
any such clifton, nor would he send the most inconsiderable
person belonging to his flip upon an
errand of that nature. The Portuguese finding

o o

him resolute, desired he would shew him the king
of Spain's letter, that he might so far satisfy his
captain ; and this request being complied with, he
returned to his flip, and made a suitable report to
his commander Avaro de Acunha, who forthwith
came on board the caravan, attended with fifes,
drums, and trumpets, and welcomed the admiral
with many expressions of friendship and good-will.
The nature of the voyage wa: no so oner known at

Lisbon,


OF COLUMBUS.

Lisbon, than multitudes of people came to see the
Indians, and learn the particulars of this amazing
discovery, insomuch that the whole river was covered
with boats crowded with people, some of whom
praised God for the success of Columbus, while ,
others bitterly curbed the hard fate of their nation,
which had lost such a prize through their king's
avarice or incredulity.

This prince having received the admiral's letter,
ordered his officers to present him with all sorts of
refreshment and necessaries, gratis; at the same
time, he wrote to Columbus, congratulating him
upon his happy return, and desiring to see him before
he should leave his dominions. Columbus at
first scrupled to accept of this invitation; but, considering
that the king of Portugal was at peace with
his sovereigns, and had treated him with uncommon
hospitality and regard, he resolved to wait upon
his Portuguese majesty, who then resided about
nine leagues from Lisbon, at a place called Valparaiso,
where the admiral arrived on Saturday night,
being the 9th day of March. The king ordered
all the nobility of the court to go out and meet him:
when he was conduced to the presence, he insisted
upon his putting on his cap and sitting down; and
having with seeming pleasure heard the particulars of
the voyage, offered to supply him with every thing
he wanted, tho he could not help observing, that
the conquest of right belonged to him, in as much
as Columbus had been once in the service of Portugal.
The admiral modestly gave his reasons for
being of a contrary opinion; to which the king
replied, it was very well; he did not doubt but
“ justice would be done.” This .conversation being
ended, he ordered the prior of Cato to entertain
Columbus, who having staid all Sunday and
part of monday, took his leave, after having been
treated by his majesty with great honour, and tempts











8 THE FIRST VOYAGE

ed, by very confiderable offers, to engage in his
service. He was alter ded in his return by Don
Martin de Nor on ha, and many other persons of

J j k

rank ; and as he nailed by a monastery where the
queen was, (he desired to see him, and received
his visit with great respect. That same night, a
gentleman came from the king, to tell him, that if
he was inclined to go to Castile by land, he would
accompany and provide him with accommodations
on the road, as far as the frontiers of Portugal.
He declined this offer with suitable acknowledgements,
and Petting sail from the river of Li Ron on
Wednesday March 13th, arrived on the Friday following
at Salts, and came to an anchor in the port
of Palos, from whence lie had departed on the 3d
day of August in the preceding year.

On his landing, he was received by all tbs people
in procession, giving thanks to God for his prosperous
success, which, it was hoped, would redound
so much to the advantage of Christianity, and
the grandeur of their catholick majesties. By this
time Pinzon had arrived in Alicia, and designed to
carry in per fan the news of the discovery to court,
when he recti ed orders forbidding him to come
without the*admiral, under whose command he had
been sent on the expedition. 1 his mortifying repel
fe made such an impression upon him, that he
sell Tick ; and returning to his native place, in a few
days died of grief and vexation.

Mean while Columbus set out for Sevil, in his
way to Barcelona, where their majesties at that time
resided ; and the roads were crowded by all sorts of
people, who flocked together to see him and the Indians
in his train. About the middle of April he
arrived at Barcelona* where he was received in the
most solemn manner by the whole court and city :
their catholick majesties, who sat in publick upon
rich chairs, under a canopy of cloth of gold, flood

up


OF COLUMBUS. 39

up when he approached to kiss their hands, caused
him to be seated in their presence, and treated him
as a grandee of the first order, who had done the
moil important service to his country : nay, so
highly favoured was he for his merit and success,
that when the king rode about Barcelona, Columbus
was always at his side, an honour which had never
been conferred before upon any but the princes
of the blood.

Nor was their regard confined to unsubstantial
forms ; he was gratified with new patents, enlarging,
explaining, and confirming the privileges
which he had before obtained; and extending his
.viceroy and admiralfhip over all the countries he
had discovered, as well as thole he should discover :
for it was resolved that he should return to the West
Indies with a powerful armament to support the colony
he had fettled, and proceed with both r discoveries:
and in the mean time they solicited and procured
from pope Alexander VI. an exclusive title to all
the lands they should find and subdue in that direction,
as far as the East Indies.


/


The


The Second Voyage of Columbus.

L L the necessary measures being taken at



court, for the success of his second expedition,


admiral Columbus departed for Sevil, where
he exerted himself with such diligence, that in a
little time seventeen vessels of different size's were
ready to sail, well Bored with provisions and other
necessaries, for the improvement of the Indian colonies.
Many handicraftsmen and labourers were engaged
for this service, while the thirst of gold, and
the success of the first adventurers, drew together
such a swarms volunteers, that he found it absolutely
necessary to reeds a great number, until another
opportunity should offer, and for the present restrict
himself to fifteen hundred persons of all sorts, who
actually embarked on this undertaking.

Having taken on board some horses, ashes, and
other animals, which multiplied, and were afterwards
of great use in the plantations, and being
well furnished with all sorts of utensils and commodities
for trade, the admiral sailed from the road of
Cadiz, where the fleet was equipped, on the 25th
of September 149 3, an hour before fun-rising, and
flood south-weft for the Canary islands, where he
intended to take in some refreshment. On the
28th, being 100 leagues from Spain, they saw abundance
of land-fowl, such as turtle-doves and other
small birds, palling from the Azores to winter in
Africa. On Wednesday Odfober 2d, he anchored
at Gran Canaria, and at midnight sailed again for
Gomara, where he arrived on the 5th day of October,
and gave orders for supplying the Lips withall
possible dispatch.





His


THE SECOND VOYAGE, &c. 41

His directions being followed, he, on the 7th
of October, took his departure for the Indies, after
having delivered sealed orders to every (hip,
not to be opened unless they should be separated
from him by stress of weather. They ran 400
leagues west of Gomara with a prosperous gale, and
were surprised that they did not meet with any of
those weeds which they had in their first voyage
seen before they had made much more than half
that way. On Saturday the 26th, at night, the
seamen perceived upon the round top, those lights
which they call the body of St. Elms, to whom they
sing litanies and prayers, in full confidence that no
danger will ensue, let the storm be never so violent.


On Saturday the id of November, in the evening,
the admiral perceiving a great alteration in the
winds and sky, that poured down a deluge of rain,
concluded he was near some land ; and almost all
the sails being taken in, ordered the crew to keep
a Sharp look-out. This was far from being a groundless
precaution; for, as soon as day began to breaks
they descried, about seven leagues to the westward,
a high mountainous island, which the admiral named
Dominica, because it was discovered on Sunday
morning. Much about the same time, they
spied three other islands ; and the people assembling
on the poop, sung the salve regina , and returned
thanks to God for their wonderful success, in having
sailed near 800 leagues in the space of twenty
days. There being no convenient place for anchoring
on the east side of Dominica, they flood over
to another, which the admiral called Marigalante,
after his' own (hip; and there landing, he, with the
usual solemnity, confirmed the possession he had formerly
taken of all the islands and continent of the
Weft-Indies for the king and queen of Spain.


On



42 THE SECOND VOYAGE

On Monday November 4th, be sailed from hence
northward by another great island, which lie denominated
St. Mary of Guadaloupe, in consequence
of a promise he had made to the friars belonging to
the convent of that name: at the distance of two
leagues from this shore, they perceived a very high
rock, ending in a point, from whence gushed a
large firearm of water, which fell with a prodigious
noise. Some men being sent ashore in the boat,
went up to a sort of town, which was abandoned by
all the inhabitants, except same children, to whose
arms the Spaniards tied a few baubles, in token of
friendship. They saw geese like those of Europe,
abundance of very large parrots, pompions, and pineapples
growing wild, of exquisite tasse and flavour.
They likewise saw different kinds of strange fruits,
cotton, hammocks, bows and arrows, and other
things, which they left untouched, that the owners
might have the better opinion of their morals. Next
day the admiral sent two boats ashore, with orders
to take, if possible, some of the natives, from whom
they might obtain some important information ; and
they returned with two young men, who said they
were of another island, and taken prisoners by the
inhabitants of Guadaloupe. The boats going ashore
again for some of the people whom they had left,
found six women who had fled to them, and desired
to be carried on board; these the admiral prefer ted
with beads and bells, and dismissed, much against
their inclinations ; and they were no sooner landed,
than the Caribbees robbed them of their ornaments,
in sight of the Spaniards. The next time the boats
crew landed, these poor creatures leaped into the
boat, imploring protection from the cruelty of the
islanders, who, they signified, had eaten their husbands,
and kept themselves in slavery. They were
therefore brought aboard the admiral, whom they
gave to understand, that there were towards the

south


OF Column U S. 43

south many islands, and a large continent, from
which, in former times, canoes had come to barter ;
and they pointed out the filiation of Hispaniola ;
whither he would have steered without delay, had
he not been informed, that one Mark a captain had,
without his leave, gone ashore before day, with
eight men, and was not yet returned; so that he
was obliged to slay and send people in quest of him,
with trumpets and muskets, the noise of which might
be heard through the woods, that were almost impossible.
However, this search proving fruitless, he
sent another detachment of forty men, under captain
Hoieda, with orders to range through the country,
and make observations on its productions. They
found malice, aloes, sanders, ginger, frankincense,
some trees that resembled cinnamon in taste and smell,
and abundance of cotton : they saw falcons, kites,
herons, days, turtles, partridges, geese and nightingales
; and affirmed, that in travelling six leagues
they crossed six and twenty rivers, several of which
were very deep: this however, must have been a
mistake, into which, in all probability, they were
led by the ruggedness of the country, that compelled
them to cross the same river a-great many different
times.

While they were employed in this excursion, the
stragglers returned to their flip of their own accord,
and said, they had been bewildered in the woods ;
but the admiral punished their presumption, by ordering
the captain to be put in irons, and the rest
to be curtailed in their allowance of provision. This
example being made, he himself landed, and entered
some of the Indian houses, where he found a great
deal of cotton, spun and unfpun, together with abundance
of human skulls and bones hung up in
baskets: and he observed that the natives here were
better accommodated with lodging, necessaries, and

provision.










44 THE SECOND VOYAGE

provision, than those of the islands which he bad visited
in his first voyage.

On Sunday, November loth, he weighed anchor,
and sailed with the whole fleet towards the
north-weft in quest of Hispaniola, passed an island
he called Moderate, on account of its height, the
inhabitants of which, as he learned from his Indians,
had been totally devoured by the Caribbees;
coasted along St. Mary Deronda, so named from
its round figure \ sailed by Sta. Maria la Antigua, extending
to above twenty eight leagues; and holding
on his course saw, to the north-weft and southeast,
several other high and woody islands, in one of
which, intituled St. Martin, he came to an anchor,
and when they weighed, pieces of coral were found
flicking on the flukes. On Thursday, ,
he anchored again on account of bad weather,
at another island, where he ordered feme Indians
to be taken, that they might inform him of
his true situation. Accordingly four women and
three children being kidnapped by the boats crew,
they put off from shore, and in their way to the flip
met with a canoe, in which were four men and one
woman, who perceiving they could not make their
escape, put themselves in a posture of defence, and
the female Shot an arrow with such force and dexterity,
that it actually went through a strong target.
But the Spaniards endeavouring to board them,
overset the canoe, so that they betook themselves to
swimming, and one of them used his bow in the
water as dextrously as if he had been on dry land : all
the males were eunuchs, who had been gelt by the
Caribbees, as the capons are made in Europe, with
a view to their improvement in fatness.

The admiral departing hence, continued his course
weft north-weft, leaving to the northward fifty if
lands, the largest of which he called St. Ursula, and
on the rest he bellowed the appellation of the Eleven

thousand


OF COLUMBUS. 45

thou find Virgins; then he anchored in a bay, on
the west side of what he termed St. John Baptist,
where the men caught skate, slaves, pilchards, and
(had, and saw falcons, and shrubs like wild vines :
to the eastward of the bay they visited some well
built houses, with square in their front, from which
was a spacious road down to the sea, flanked on
both Tides with cane towers, the tops of which were
curiously interwoven with greens; and at the end
of it, next the sea, flood a lofty gallery or balcony,
large enough to hold ten or twelve persons.

On Friday 14th, he arrived in the bay of Samana,
on the north side of Hispaniola, where he sent on
shore one of his Indians, who was a native of that
part, and now being converted to the Christian faith,
undertook for the submission of all his countrymen:
from thence continuing his course for the town of
the Nativity, he was at cape Angel visited by some
Indians, who came aboard to barter; and coming to
an anchor in the port of Monte Chrifto, some of
his men discovered, near a river, two bodies of
men with a rope made of a kind of broom about
their necks, and their arms extended upon a piece
of wood in form of a cross; and this circumstance
was looked upon as a bad omen, though it was impossible
to discover whether they were Christians or
natives of the country.

Next day, being the 26th, a number of Indians
came aboard, with great confidence and appearance
of friendship, and pronounced several Spanish words
they had learned from the settlers, so that the admiral
was eased of the apprehensions he had begun to
conceive; as he could not imagine they would have
behaved with such freedom and unconcern, had they
been conscious to themselves of having injured the
Christians Next day, however, put an end to his
doubts; for, when he anchored near the town of
the Nativity, some Indians came along side in a

canoe.









'46 THE SECOND VOYAGE

canoe, and enquired for him by name, and being
satisfied that he was there, went on board with two
masks, and a compliment from the cacique Guam
From these people he had the mortification
to learn, that the greatest part of his settlers
were dead, and the rest gone to other countries :
and tho he suspected foul play, he concealed his
suspicions for the present, and that same night dismissed
the messengers with some utensils of sattin
and other baubles for their prince.

When he entered the port of the Nativity, he saw
nothing but ruin and desolation ; the town was burnt
to the ground, and not a soul appeared upon the
beach ; and when he sent some of his people on shore
to gather tidings, they found the bodies of eleven
Spaniards, who seemed to have been a month dead.
While he ruminated with sorrow and resentment on
this unfortunate event, he was visited by Guacana-
gains brother, who came down, attended by some
Indians, and told him, that he had scarce set sail on
his return to Spain, when thole he had left behind
began to quarrel among themselves, every man endeavouring
to amass as much gold as he could find,
and taking as many wives from among the natives
as his appetite or rather his extravagance, seemed to
require; that Peter Gutierres and Efcovedo having
killed one Sago, had with nine others retired into
the dominions of a cacique called Caunaho, lord
of the mines, who put them all to death, and afterwards
came down with a great number of men
to destroy the town. At that time, James de
Arana with ten men were left to guard the fort, the
red having dispersed themselves about the island ;
and Canada, who stole upon them by night, setting
fire to their houses, they fled into these, where
eight of them perished, and the other three were
slain on shore, while Guacanagari himself, who had
joined the Spaniards, was obliged to fly, after having



OF COLUMBUS. 4 y

ing received a dangerous wound, by which he was
then confined to his house, so that he could not wait
upon the admiral according to his inclination. This
fiery easily agreeing with the intelligence he received
from some Spaniards, who had been sent up the
country to reconnoitre, and had actually seen Guam
at his own house, the admiral paid him a
visit next day, and was received with all the appearance
of cordiality and concern : the cacique repeated
the melancholy tale with marks of unfeigned furrow,
(hewed his own wound and those of his men,
which had been received in defence of the Christians,
and appeared to have been made with Indian weapons
j and the compliments of condolence being
past, he presented him with eight firings of small
beads, composed of white, green, and red stones,
a firing of geld beads, a regal crown of the same
metal, and three small calabashes, full of gold duff,
weighing about two pounds. In return for these valuable
presents, the admiral gave him toys to the amount
of three reals, or eighteen pence, which he
prized at a very high rate. Though he was extremely
ill, he infilled on accompanying his guest to the
fleet, where he was courteously entertained, and
very much surprized at sight of some horses; and he
was afterwards instructed in the mysteries of the
Christian religion, which he at first: had made some
scruple to embrace.

The admiral being disgusted at this place, which
had been the seene of so many disasters to him and
his people, and knowing that in the neighbourhood
there were more commodious places for a settlement,
failed to the eastward with the whole fleet, on Saturday
December 7th, and next day came to an anchor
among the small islands of Monte Cbriflo, which,
tho > destitute of trees, are nevertheless pleasant; for
in that winter season they abounded with flowers,
nests full of young birds, and every other production

of


48 THE SECOND VOYAGE

of summer. Weighing, however, he sailed from
hence, and anchored before an Indian town, where
he resolved to plant a colony.

With this view, all the men designed for settlers,
together with provision and proper utensils, were
landed in a plain, where he built a tower called Isabella,
in honour of the queen. This was judged a
very convenient spot, because it was under a rock on
which a sort might be erected: the harbour was very
large, and atthediftance of a bow-lot ran a river
of delicate water, from which canals might be drawn
through the middle of the town: and beyond it lay an
extensive open plain, from which, the Indians laid,
the mines of Ceboa were not very defiant. From
the 11 th day of December the admiral was eagerly
employed in regulating thisfettlement, which being
tolerably well adjusted, he sent Alonzo de Hoie-
da, with fifteen men, in quell of the gold mines ;
and on the 2d day of February he dismissed twelve
ships of his fleet to Castile, under the command of
Capt, Antonio de Torres. Hoieda soon returned,
and gave the following account of his expedition.
On the second day he layat the pass of an almost
inaccessible mountain; at the distance of every
league he found a cacique, by whom he was hospitably
received ; and continuing his journey, arrived
on the sixth day at the mines of Cebao, where
he actually saw the Indians take up gold from a
small river, as they afterwards did from many others
of the same province. This information was extremely
agreeable to the admiral, who was just recovered
from a fit of illness, occasioned by fatigue 5
and on Wednesday March 12th he stout from Isabella
for Cebao, attended by all the people who were
in health, on foot and a horseback, except a strong
guard which he left inthetwolhips, and three caravans,
that remained under the command of his brother
James Columbus. This precaution he took in

consequence


OF COLUMBUS. 49

consequence of a conspiracy which he had detected
on board, headed by one Bernard de Pisa, who
had embarked from Spain in quality of comptroller
to their catholick majesties. He took the opportunity
of the admiral's disorder, to tamper with
some of the men who were disappointed of the
gold which they expected to find without the leaf!:
trouble, and dissatisfied with the regulations of the
new settlement; and formed the design of revolting
from the admiral, and seizing the ships, in which he
purposed to return to Spain : but the combination
being discovered, Columbus secured the ringleader,
until he should have an opportunity of sending him
home to undergo his trial; and having taken proper
measures for preventing such a mutiny for the future,
departed for Ciboa, with necessaries to build
a sort in that province, for the security of those who
should be left to gather gold among the Indians,
That he might the more intimidate and awe these
savages, he made a parade of all his people, whom
he ordered to march through their villages in rank
and file, with their arms and accoutrements, trumpets
founding, and colours flying. He took his route
along the river that runs by Isabella, eroded another
not so large, and lay in a pleasant plain, extending
to the foot of a craggy hill; and forming a pass,
which he called Puerto de Sos Hidalgos, or of the
Gentlemen, because some gentlemen had gone before
to widen the road ; for the Indians never make
a path that will allow above one man to pass at a
time. Next day he entered a large plain, in which
he travelled five leagues, and spent the night near
a great river, which the men eroded on floats and
in canoes : this, which he named the river of Canes,
falls into the sea at Monte Chrifto. In his march
he paced by many Indian towns, composed of round
thatched houses, the doors of which were so snail,
that no person could enter without Hooping very low.
Vol. I. D l he



55 THE SECOND VOYAGE

The inhabitants Teemed to have every thing in common,
and had no notion of private property among
the Christians; for they attempted to take from the
Spaniards any thing which they chanced to like, and
were surprised at meeting with a repulse. The
whole way was diversified with pleasant mountains
covered with wild vines, aloes, cassia, and that tree
which is said to produce the scammony.

On Friday, March 14th, the admiral set forwards
from the River of Canes; and having proceeded a
league and an half, arrived at the banks of another,
which he named the river of Gold, because here they
gathered some dust and grains of that metal. He
sailed this large body of water with some difficulty,
on the other side of which he found a large town,
and all the houses Tout against him by the inhabitants,
who had barred their doors with canes, which
they look upon as an impregnable defence. This
night he lay on the bank of another fine river, which
he christened the Green River; and continuing his
journey next day, pained by some great towns, fortified
like that which we have already mentioned :
by this time the men began to be tired with the fatigue
of travelling, and he chose his nights lodging
at the foot of a rugged mountain, which he denominated
port Cibao, because here the province of
that name begins. From hence he sent back some
mules to Isabella for a fresh supply of provision ;
and these being returned, he on the 16th day
of Starch entered the province of Cibao, which,
though rough and finny, yields plenty of grass, and
is watered by several rivers abounding with gold,
which is washed down from the mountains : but in
this whole province, which is as large as Portugal,
there are few or no trees, except on the banks of
the rivers, where some pines and palms are found.

This country being very craggy, and at a good
distance from Isabella, which lay eighteen leagues

to



OF C O L U M BUS.









X

toto


the northward, he ordered a sort to be built in a
very strong, tho pleasant situation, to command
the country about the mines, and protect the Christian
adventurers. This,' which he called the castle
of St. Thomas, was garrisoned by fifty six men, under
the command of Peter Margarite, and among
these were workmen of all sorts, to finish and repair
the fort, which was built with clay and timber,
of force sufficient to withstand the attempts of any
number of Indians who might come against: it.

The admiral having given proper directions touching
the support of this work, set out on his return
for Isabella, and was met by numbers of the natives
who came to sell their provisions, which
chiefly confided of garlick, and a sort of bread: and
on Sunday, March 29th, he arrived at his new colony,
where he found melons already fit to eat, tho*
the seed had not been above two months in the
ground. Cucumbers came to perfection in twenty
days; and a wild vine of the country, being pruned,
produced large and excellent grapes. Next day,
being the 30th, a peasant gathered ears of wheat,
which he had sown in the latter end of January:
fetches, improved in the soil, produced a ripe crop
in twenty five days after they were sown. The
Hones of fruit sprouted out in seven days; the vine
branches put forth in the same time, yielding green
grapes in five and twenty days, and sugar canes budded
in the like space. So that the admiral was perfectly
well pleased with the climate, the soil, and
the water, which was extremely pure, cool, wholesome
and palatable.

On Tuesday, April ifs, a messenger arrived from
St. I thomas, with intelligence, that the cacique
Caunabo was employed in making preparations for
attacking the fort : and tho Columbus paid but
little regard to this report, because he knew how
little the natives were to be feared, especially as they

D 2 were






$2 THE SECOND VOYAGE

were so much terrified by the horses, that they durst
not venture to approach those animals; nevertheless,
as he intended to go to Tea with his three caravans,
in order to discover the continent, he resolved
to leave every thing quiet behind ; and for that
purpose sent a reinforcement of seventy men to the
sort, the greatest part of whom had orders to make
the road more passable, and find out the fords of the
rivers. Mean while he completed his town, which
was laid out in regular streets, with a convenient
market-place, and supplied it with the river water,
conveyed through an artificial canal. He likewise
erected a waterfall to grind wheat, as his people
were not yet accustomed to the food of the natives;
and provisions beginning to sail, he determined to send
all the superfluous mouths to Spain, and leave upon
the island no more than three hundred men, which
he deemed a number sufficient to keep that country
in subjection to their catholick majesties. This
shep he was the rather induced to take, because the
climate disagreed with many, who were in a Tick
and languishing condition : as for those who enjoyed
health, and were not absolutely necessary in the
town, he sent them out to traverse the island, that
they might reconnoitre the ground, accustom themselves
to the Indian diet, and shrike a terror into the :
inhabitants: they were commanded by Hosea,
who had orders to march into Cibao, and deliver j
them to Peter Margarite, who should lead them f
round the island, while he (Hosea) should com -
jnand the sort of St. Thomas.

On Wednesday, April 29th, they departed from r
Isabella, to the number of four hundred ; and, having
crossed the river del Oro, apprehended a
cacique, whom, together with his brother, Hosea ; ,
sent in irons to the admiral, after he had ordered (
the ears of one of his subjects to be cut off in the I p
market-place of his town. This punishment they j >!

7 incurred :











OF COLUMBUS. 53

Incurred for an outrage they had committed against
the Christians, three of whom, in their way from
St. Thomas to Isabella, having been by this cacique
accommodated with five Indians as porters
to carry their cloaths, were no sooner come to the
middle of the river, than those honed carriers ran
away with the baggage, and the cacique, instead
of punching* them for the theft, refused to retire
the booty, which he converted to his own use.

Another cacique, who dwelt beyond the river,
relying upon the service he had done to the Spaniards,
accompanied the prisoners to Isabella, in order
to intercede in their behalf with the admiral,
who entertained him courteously; and in order to
instance the value of the favour he intended to grant,
commanded the delinquents to be brought out to
execution. The mediator seeing them in this perilous
situation, filed a flood of tears, and begged
their lives might be (pared, with the molt earned
entreaties; in consequence of which they were pardoned
and dismissed. Immediately after their release,
a man on horseback, jut arrived from St.Tho¬
mass, told the admiral, that in his way through the
town belonging to the cacique who had been prisoner,
he had Singly rescued four Spaniards, whom
the Indians had taken by way of reprisals, and chased
above four hundred people, who fled at the very
sight of his horse.

The (hips being fitted out for a new expedition,
Columbus appointed a council to govern the island
in his absence, confiding of his brother James as
president, F. Boyle, and Peter Fernandez Coronets
as regents, with Alonzo Sanchez de Carvajal rector
of Barca, and John de Lucan of Madrid, gentlemen
to their catholick majesties. Then he sailed
to the port of Guacanagari, who fled at his approach.'
On Saturday, April 26th, he touched at
the island of Tortuga, where, on account of the

D 3 currents.



54 THE SECOND VOYAGE

currents, he was obliged to come to an inch? r, and
slay till 1’ tuesday 20th, when favoured by a fair
wind, he reached Cape St. Nicholas, from whence
Handing over to Cuba, he ran along the south side
of that island, and put into a large bay, which he
called Puerto Grande, from its extent and depth of
water. Here, while he lay at anchor, his men
caught abundance of oysters and other hfh; and afterwards,
while he continued his course along the
coast, a great number of the Indians came aboard in
their canoes, with presents of bread, water, and
wish, for which they thought themselves greatly overpaid
with a few bells, beads, and other such trifles.

On Saturday, May 3d, the admiral sailed for Jamaica,
where he was told there was great plenty of
gold, and upon Monday anchored in that island,
which he thought the most beautiful of any he had
yet seen, as well as the inmost populous: for, an a-
lion idling multitude of natives came on board in canoes
of different sizes, to barter provisions, which
they exchanged for the most inconsiderable toys.
Next day, as he coasted along, the boats being
lent to found the mouths of some harbours, were
surrounded by canoes full of armed men, who seemed
bent upon committing adds of hostility; so that
the Spaniards, who resolved to enter Puerto Bueno,
saluted them with a flight of arrows, by which six
or seven were wounded, and the rest so intimidated
that they fled with precipitation. In this harbour,
the figure of which resembles a horseshoe,
the admiral's strip was repaired, and the leak being
flopped, he on Tuesday 14th stood over again to
Cuba, with full resolution to know whether it was
really an island or a continent. That same day a
very young Indian of Jamaica coming on board,
desired to accompany the admiral to Spain; and tho
many of his kindred and countrymen came, with
tears in their eyes, earnestly entreating him to return,




OF COLUMBUS. 55

turn, be persisted in his resolution, and the admiral
gave orders he should be treated with civility.

On Wednesday he reached the point of Cuba,
which he denominated Cato de Santa Cruz ; and ashe
coasted along, he was overtaken by a terrible
form, attended with thunder and lightning, which
was the more dangerous as he was entangled among
flats and currents, which hundred him from taking
in his sails. That whole sea, to the north and north -
caff, is interspersed with a vast number of little, low,
sandy islands, some of which scarce appear above the
surface of the water, and render the navigation very
difficult. True it is the nearer they failed to Cuba,
the higher and pleasant these islands appeared ; and
as it would have been a tedious task to bellow a name
upon every particular, he Ailed them by the lump,
the Queens Garden. The next day they seemed to
multiply on all hands, insomuch that the men reckoned
one hundred and sixty, parted from each other
by navigable channels, through some of which the
slips sailed. On these they saw a great number of
cranes red as scarlet; abundance of tortoises or turtle,
and their egg?, which they leave in the sand to be
hatched by the fun : they likewise perceived crows,
like those in Spain, and an infinite number of little
birds that fungharmonioufly. The very air was a§
sweet as if it had been impregnated with the feet
of roses, and a 1 other vegetable perfumes.

In one of those channels, they found a canoe
with fishermen, who seeing the boat approach, made
signs to the Spaniards to be upon their oars, until
they had performed their operation, which was very
Angular and curious. They had tied a firing round
the tail of some small fishes called revel, that are
taught to encounter other fish, to which they cling
so fail, by means of a certain roughness and viscosity
in their skin, that the fishermen draw them up
together : upon this occasion they caught a tortoise ;

D 4 and


56 THE SECOND VOYAGE

and the rev was wound about its neck, where
they generally fallen to secure themselves from
the teeth of their game; and in this manner they
will sometimes attack (harks of the large size. The
Indians having drawn their line very quietly, went
on board of the admiral, and presented the fiji which
they had caught; for which he gratified them with
a few baubles, and held on his course : tho he now
began to be in want of provisions, and his health
was very much impaired by fatigue and want of
rest . which he would not venture to enjoy amid
such a number of unknown islands, which every
night produce a great fog to the eastward, accompanied
with thunder and lightning, tho it .vanishes
as soon as the moon is risen. During the night,
the wind generally blows off shore, but in the day
it is almcff always easterly, and seems to follow
the fun in its diurnal course.

On Thu delay. May 22d, the admiral landed on.
an bland so me what larger than the re, which he
called St Mary, and entered a town abandoned by
the inhabitants, where he found nothing but fish,
and some dogs that resembled mastiffs. Then he directed
his course north-east, where he was still perplexed
and fatigued, by sailing and sounding among
an astonishing number of flats and islands; because,
inspire of all his precautions in founding and keeping
a good look out, the flip was often a-ground,
and there was no possibility of avoiding this inconvenience
: this consideration, joined to those we have
already mentioned, obliged him to relinquish his
design of sailing ea about until he should return to
Spain,

Being now in want of water, he touched again
at Cuba, and one of his sailors going up among the
trees with a cross-bow in search of game, saw about
thirty people armed with spears and staves, called
Maecenas, and among them a person clad in a white

coat


I



OF COLUMBUS. 57

coat or veil that reached down to his knees, and
carried by two men in long garments of the same
fluff, all three being as white as Spaniards: but he
had no conversation' with them; because, seeing
such a number, he called to his companions, and
the Indians ran away without looking back. Next
day the admiral sent people on shore to know the
truth of this report, but the woods and bogs were
so impassable that they could not proceed in their
Inquiry.

About ten leagues to the westward of this place
they saw houses, from which the natives came in
canoes, with water, and such food as they eat; and
one of them was detained as an interpreter by the
admiral, who promised to dismiss him in safety as
soon as he should have given him proper dire St ions
for his voyage, and a distinct account of the country
The Indian was satisfied with his promise, and gave
him to understand that Cuba was an idand ; that
the king or cacique of the western part never spoke
to his subjects; but made certain signs, in consequence
of which all his orders were performed ; and
that all the coast was very low, and surrounded by
small hands. Next day, June i with, the admiral
being inclosed between two of these, was
obliged to tow the ships over a dat, where there
was not above one foot of water: and bearing up
closer to Cuba, they saw very large tortoises, in such,
numbers, that they actually covered these. Next
day the fun was darkened by a cloud of sea-crows
that came from seaward, and lighted upon the anywhere
they likewise saw abundance of pigeons and
other birds ; and afterwards, such swarms of butterflies,
that the day was obscured from morning
till night, when they were carried away by a deluge
of rain.

On Friday, June 13th, the admiral being in want
of wood and water, anchored in the idand Evan

5 gelilta.


I


58 THE SECOND VOYAGE

gelifta, about thirty leagues in compass; and having
provided the (hips with what they wanted, directed
his course southward, in hopes of finding another
passage : but, after having failed a few leagues through
what seemed to be a channel, he saw himself embayed,
and was obliged to return as he entered. Hence
he sailed on the 25th, towards some small islands
that appeared to the north-weft ; not far from which
the sea seemed in different places to be of various
colours, owing, in all probability, to the (hallow
water, and nature of the bottom seen through it.
Thence returning to the coast of Cuba, he flood to
theeaftward with scant winds, and on the 30th day
of June, while he was waiting his journal, the (hip
ran a-ground so sass, that (he could not be got off
without great difficulty and some damage; and, besides
the trouble of navigating through foal water
and narrow channels, he was exposed to great inconvenience
from vast quantities of rain that fell
every evening.

On July 7 th he landed to hear mass, and w 7 as visited
by an old cacique of that province, who listened
very attentively to the service, and afterwards
signified his belief of the exigence of a supreme Being,
who rewards virtue and punishes vice in a future
(fate: he was acquainted with some of the
chiefs in Hispaniola, had been in Jamaica, and at
the west end of Cuba, where the cacique was clad
like a priest.

On Wednesday, July 1 6th, the admiral put to sea,
tho very much incommoded by the rains and winds,
which, as he approached Cape Cruz, suddenly increased
to such a storm, that the (hips were almost
overset before the sails could be furled, and they
(hipped so much water, that the men were scarce
able to keep them clear by pumping, so much
were they reduced by fatigue and want of provisions:
a man's allowance being (tinted to a pound
»■ of



OF COLUMBUS. 59

of rotten bisket, and half a pint of wine per day,
which the admiral himself did not exceed. In this
distress, he, on the 18th of July, reached Cape
Cruz, where he was very civilly entertained by the
Indians, who supplied him with bread called cazabi,
made of scots grated, abundance of fish, and store
of pleasant fruit. Thus refreshed, he stood over to
Jamaica on the 22d day of July, and coasting along
to the westward, found it full of excellent harbours,
and abounding with inhabitants, and judged it to
be about 80 miles in compass.

The weather clearing up, he failed to the eastward,
and on Wednesday August 20th, making the
south side of Hispaniola, called the first point Cape
St. Michael, which is about thirty leagues distant
from the molt easterly part of Jamaica, and at present
known by she name of Cape Tiburon. On Saturday
23d he was visited aboard by a cacique, who
called him by his name, and pronounced some Spanifh
words ; and about the latter end of the month
he anchored in 2n island known by the name of Alto
Veto, after having lost sight of the other two
ships that were under his command. Here the
men killed eight seals that lay asleep on the store,
and took abundance of pigeons and other birds,
which, being unaccustomed to the cruelty of the
human species, stood still and allowed themselves
to be knocked on the head With staves. At the end
of six days, being joined by the milling Clips, they
stood for the island Beat, at the distance of twelve
leagues from Alto Volo : thence coasting along His
manila, which exhibited a delightful prospers of a
plain, running up a mile from the sea, so populous,
that for a whole league it seemed to be one continued
town, in the neighbourhood of which appeared
a lake, five leagues in length from east to
west. Here the natives came aboard in their canoes,
and informed the admiral, that they had been visit

6 * ed


6o THE SECOND VOYAGE

ed by some Spaniards from Isabella, where all was
well. He was very much pleased with this information
} and immediately dispatched nine men across
the island to his colony, with the news of his safe
return, while he and his ships still sailed along the
coast to the eastward. In this course he sent the
boats for water, near a great town, from which the
Indians came to oppose their landing, with bows
and poisonous arrow's, and produced some ropes,
with which they threatened to bind the Christians :
but as soon as the boats reached the shore, they
laid down their arms, and asked for the admiral, to
whom they made a tender of all they had.

Near this peace, they saw in the sea a fl(h as big
as a whale, with a great shell, like that of a tortoise,
upon its neck : it bore its head, which was as
large as an hogshead, above water, had a very long
tail, resembling that of a tunny fish, and two large
sins on the Tides. From this, and other concurring
signs, the admiral prognosticated a change of weather,
and seeking some place where he might ride
secure, it was his good fortune to discover an island
near the east part of Hispaniola, called by the natives
Adamant : between this and Hispaniola he
came to an anchor close under another small island,
and observed an eclipse of the moon, which was followed
by a tempest that haired several days ; so that
be was obliged to lie in this situation till the 20th,
not without great apprehension on account of the
other vessels which could not get in : however, they
weathered the storm and joined the admiral, who
sailed on the 24-th to the easternmost point of Hispaniola
; from whence he pa fled over to a little island
which the Indians call Mona, and in his passage
from hence to St. John de Borriguen, he was, in
consequence of the fatigue he had undergone, seized
with a pestilential and lethargic fever, which
deprived him of his femes and memory. In this

dilemma.,


OF COLUMBUS, 61

dilemma, it was resolved by his people to desist from
the design he had formed, of discovering the Caribbees,
and to return to Isabella, where they arrived
in five days; and on the 29th of September
the admiral retrieved the use of his reason, and his
fever vanished, tho J his weakness lasted five months.

On his arrival at Isabella, he found his brother
Bartholomew, who, in returning to Spain from the
court of England, where his demands were granted,,
had been informed of Christopher's success, by
Charles King of France, who supplied him with
100 crowns for the expence of his journey. Having
received this intelligence, he.made all the haste
he could to overtake the admiral in Spain, but before
he arrived in Sevil, his brother had sailed on his
second voyage: however, he soon followed with
three ships, the command of which was given to
him by their catholic majesties. And now the admiral
made him governor of the Indies, tho this
title occasioned fomedifpute; because the king and
queen alledged, that Christopher had no power to
grant such an office: nevertheless this difference was
compromised, and his place confirmed under the
title of adelantado, or lieutenant of the Indies*
Although the company and assistance of Bartholomew
were of great comfort and service to the admiral,
he was involved in infinite trouble and vexation,
by the misconduct of Peter Margarite, which
had produced a revolt among the Indians. This
officer, instead of obeying the orders of Columbus,
in traversing and reducing theifland, with 360 foot
and i^horfe, which were left under his command,
he encamped in a great plain, called Vega Real, at
the distance of ten leagues from Isabella, from
whence he sent insolent letters, and even orders to
the council, over which he wanted to domineer : but
finding it impracticable to succeed in his design of
usurping the supreme command, and dreading*the

return


62 THE SECOND VOYAGE

return of the admiral, who would call him to an
account for his behaviour, he embarked in the first
ship bound for Spain, without having assigned any
reason for his departure, or in any shape disposed
of the men who were under his command ; so that
every person being at liberty to follow his own inclination,
they dispersed themselves in the country,
robbed the natives of their women ard eftedfs, and
committed such outrages, as entirely alienated the
affections of the Indians, and even induced them to
lay scenes of revenge.

The cacique of La Madeline, whole name was
Guadiana, attacked small draggling parties, killed
ten Spaniard?, and set fire to an house in which
were eleven sick people: the like cruelties were
committed in other parts of the island, and a much
greater number would have perished, had not the
admiral returned in time to protect his colony ; tho
he was very much chagrined to find that the Christians
were mortally hated by the Indians, on account
of their insolence and barbarity. Indeed they
might have easily Shaken off the Spanifh yoke, had
they united in their own defence : for, there were
four principal kings or caciques, namely Caunabo,
Guacanagari, Behechico, and Guarconex, and upon
each of these 70 or 80 petty lords depended ;
not that these vassals payed tribute, but were obliged,
when called, to assist them in their wars and
agriculture. Guacanagari continued a firm friend
to the Christians; and, visiting the admiral at his
return, declared he had been in no drape aiding or
abiding to those who had injured the Spaniards;
but, on the contrary, had protected and maintained
one hundred of his people, and for that reason incurred
the displeasure of the other kings. Behe¬
chico had killed one of his women, and another had
been taken away by Caunabo; so that he implored
the assistance of Columbus, to recover her who was

alive


OF COLUMBUS. 63

alive, and revenge the others death. The admiral
had so often experienced the humanity and affection
of this cacique, that he resolved to redress his wrongs,
especially as it was his interest to foment and maintain
dissension among the Indian chiefs, who, in
being divided, would he the more easily subdued.
In the mean time, feme of the natives who had murdered
his men, being apprehended, were punished
with death, and others sent to Spain in four ships,
which had come out in February, under the command
of Antonio de Torres.

On the 24-th day of March 1 495* Columbus, with
Guacanagari, departed from Isabella, to prosecute
the war against his Indian enemies, who were assembled
to the number of one hundred thousand,
while his forces did not exceed two hundred Christians,
with twenty horses and as many dogs.

On the second day of his march, being in sight
of the enemy, he divided his army into two bodies,
giving the command of one half to his brother the
lieutenant, that by attacking in two places at once,
they might increase the terror and confusion of the
Indians, who were scattered about the plains. Accordingly,
the Spaniards having first thrown them
into disorder, by a discharge of their cross-bows and
muskets, fell in among them with their horses and
dogs, charging with such fury, that the faint-hearted
multitude were routed and fled different ways, with
great precipitation. Many were slain in the pursuit,
and a great number made prisoners; among
whom was Caunabo, with all his wives and children.
This cacique confessed that he had killed
twenty of the Chriilians, who had been left with
Peter de Arana at the Nativity, and that his intention
was to add in the same manner at the town of
Isabella, which he had reconnoitred under colour
of friendship. Such a confession, together with his
being taken in actual rebellion* were matters of

such


64 THE SECOND VOYAGE

such importance, that the admiral, thought proper to
send him and his whole family into Spain, where
they might be used according to the pleasure of their
Catholic majesties.

The Indians were so much intimidated by the
victory which the Spaniards had obtained, and the
captivity of Caunabo, that in the space of a year,
the admiral, without drawing a sword, reduced the
whole island to obedience, and imposed a quarterly
tribute to be payed to the king and queen of Spain.
Every inhabitant of Cibao above the age of fourteen,
was taxed at a large horse-bell full of gold
dust ; and the rest at 25 pounds of cotton a head :
and every one who had payed, was presented with
a brass or tin ticket, that they might be distinguished
from those who had failed in the payment.
Thus every thing was fettled to the Satisfaction of
all parties, and the people became so quiet and pacifick,
that a Single Spaniard could travel in Safety
over the whole island, and be received every wherewith
hospitality and regard: tho by this time, the
colony was, by the diseases of the climate, and
change of diet, reduced to less than one third of
the number which hast landed at Isabella.

During this interval of peace, the Spaniards by
conversing with the natives, became better acquainted
with their manners and customs, and
among other things, learned that the island produced
copper, azure, amber, ebony, cedar, frankincense,
a kind of bitter cinnamon, ginger, long
pepper, and a great number of mulberry trees,
which hear leaves all the year for the Support of a
silk manufactures-With regard to religion, the
admiral himself writes, that every king or cacique,
here as well as in the other [Hands and continent,
has a detached house Set apart for the lodging and
Service of certain wooden images called Cenis, before
which they perform ceremonies and pray with

great

1 — o


OF COLUMBUS. 65

great devotion. In each of these temples is a
round table made in form of a dish, containing a
certain kind of powder, which being laid on the
head of the Cemi, the devotee snuffs it up through
an hollow cane, consisting of two branches, repeating
a sort of jargon which seems altogether
unintelligible; and by this powder he is immediately
intoxicated. Those images have different
names, which, in all probability, belonged to the
ancestors of the cacique who owns them; and
some of them are in much higher reputation than
others; so that a Cemi of character is frequently
stolen. In the celebration of these rules, they carefully
avoid the Chriilians, whom they will not suffer
to enter the place of their devotion : tho some
Spaniards once rushed into the house, and immediately
the Cemi began to cry aloud in the Indian
language: for, the image being hollow, was (applied
with a trunk, the farther end of which
reached a dark corner of the apartment, where a
man lay concealed among boughs and leaves, and
spoke what was dilated by the cacique-the
Chriilians soon comprehended and discovered the
trick by kicking down the Cemi; and the cacique
finding himself detected, earnestly begged they
would not communicate the discovery to his subjects,
otherwise he Should not be able to keep them
in obedience-almost all these chiefs have likewise
three stones which they and their people devoutly
worship : one, they say, presides over the corn
and grain, the other affects women in childbed,
and the third influences the weather. When a sick
Indian seems pall recovery, he is strangled by order
of the cacique, and either buried, burnt or embalmed,
at the pleasure of his relations. Some being
embowelled and dried, are laid in hammocks
with bread and water at their heads, and others are
deposited in a grot or den furnished with the same


66 THE SECOND VOYAGE

kind of provision. Caunabo being questioned
about a future state, said, that after death he should
go to a certain vale, where he should find his parents
and predecessors, and eat, drink, and enjoy
all the sensual pleasures in the highest perfection.
The island of Hispaniola being now in a state of quiet
submission, the colony of Isabella established, and
three forts erected in different parts, for the security
of the Spaniards, the admiral resolved to return to
Castile to give an account of these than fact ions,,
and acquit himself of some flanderous^accufations,
which certain envious and malicious persons had laid
against him and his brother. He therefore on
Thursday, iothof March, 1496, went onboard
with two hundred and twenty five Spaniards and
thirty Indians, embarked in two caravans called the
Santa Cruz and Nina, and sailing from Isabella
early in the morning, began to ply to the eastward.

On Tuesday 22d, he weathered the most easterly
point of the island, still continuing the same
course, tho the wind was in his teeth, till the 6th
of April, when finding his provisions falling short,
and his men weary and discouraged, he flood off
more southerly towards the Caribbee islands, and on
Saturday the 9th anchored at Marigalante. Next
day he failed to Guadalupe, and sent ashore his
boats, which being opposed by a number of women,
who rushed out of a wood with bows and arrows;
the Spaniards lying on their oars, ordered two of
their Indian women to fvvini ashore, and tell the
islanders that they wanted nothing but provisions,
for which they would give them a valuable consideration,'
When the female warriors understood the
demand of the Christians, they directed them to
fail to the north side, where they would be supplied
by their husbands : accordingly the ships coasting
round the island, a great number of people came
down to the shore, and let fly several flights of arrows



OF COLUMBUS. ' 67

rows at the boats : but perceiving the Spaniards
rowed towards the shore, they formed an ambuscade
in the near eft woods, from whence, however,
they were driven by the cannon of the ships; so
that their houses and effects being abandoned, were
pillaged and destroyed by the Christians, who being
acquainted with the method, went to work and
made a sufficient quantity of bread to supply their
wants. Jn these Indian houses, which, contrary
to the practice of the other islands, were square,
they found large parrots, honey, wax, and iron, of
which they had hatchets and looms for weaving
their tents; and in one, they perceived a mans arm
loading on a spit.

While some of the people were employed in
baking bread, the admiral detached forty men to
obtain some intelligence of the country, and next
day they returned with ten women and three boys,
among whom was the wife of a cacique, who had
been taken by a Canary man, remarkably swift of
foot, Notwithstanding his nimbleness, he could
not have overtaken her, had not she, seeing him
alone, turned back in full confidence of making
him her prey. She accordingly seized and threw
him upon the ground, and he certainly would have
been Ailed, had not some of his companions come
to his alliance. These women, who are excessively
fat and thick, swathed their legs with a piece of
cotton from the ancle to the knee, and wear their
hair long and loose flowing upon their (boulders,
but no other part of their bodies is covered. The
captive lady said, the island was' inhabited by women
only, and that among those who endeavoured
to oppose the landing, there were but four mei,
who chanced to be there by accident; for, at certain
times of the year, they come from other
islands, to procreate the species. This is likewise
the case in another island called Matrimonio, possessed





68 THE SECOND VOYAGE

seated by the same sort of Amazons, who seemed to
be endued with masculine strength and a clearness
of understanding which is not found among the
men of that country; insomuch that, whereas
other Indians reckon the day by the fun, and the
night by the moon only, these women are acquainted
with astronomy, and measure their time by the
riling and setting of the stars.

The admiral having furnished his ships with a
supply of bread, wood and water, set sail from
Guadalupe on Wednesday the 20th of April, after
having gratified and sent on shore all the inhabitants,
except the chief lady and her daughter, who
chose to go to Spain along with Caunabo, who,
tho* a cacique of Hispaniola, was a native of
the Caribbees.

By the 20th of May, the ships being about 100
leagues west of the Azores, provisions began to
fail, so that each man was restricted to an allowance
of six ounces of bread, and something less thana
pint of water per day ; and the admiral found the
Dutch compasses varied a point, while thereof Genoa
had very little variation.

On Wednesday June 8th, several days after the
reckonings of all the pilots had been out, exactly
according to the admiral's account, they made the
land of Odenicra, between Lisbon landscape St.
Vincent, which some mistook for the coast of Ga
lucia, while others affirmed they were in the English
channel; and by this time the scarcity onboard
was so great, that many of the people proposed to
eat the Indians, and others were of opinion they
should be thrown overboard, in order to lessen the
consumption of the provision that remained. But
both these cruel expedients were rejected by the admiral,
who exerted his whole authority and address
for the protection of those poor creatures; and
next morning he was rewarded for his humanity,

with


OF COLUMBUS. 69

with the sight of land, which agreed so well with
his prediction, that his men believed he was actually
prophetical in sea-affairs.

The admiral being landed, set out for Burgos,
where he was favourably received by their Catholic
majesties, who were then celebrating the nuptials
of their son prince John, with Margaret of
Austria daughter of Maximilian the emperor. He
presented the king and queen with samples of every
peculiar production of the Indies, such as birds,
beads, trees, plants, instruments and utensils, together
with several girdles and masks adorned with
golden plates, and a large quantity of gold dud,
with grains of that metal of various does, from
the bigness of a vetch to that of a pigeons egg.

Having afterwards vindicated his own conduct too

# #

the satisfaction of their majesties, he learnedly begged
to be sent back with supplies to the colony
which he had left in want of men and many ne
caries; but notwithstanding all his sollicitations,
the court was so dilatory, that ten or twelve months
elapsed before he could obtain supply, which was
sent in two ships commanded by Peter Fernandez
Cornell. After his departure, Columbus continued
at court, to negociate the equipment of such a
fleet as would be proper for him to conduct to the
Wed-Indies : but this was long retarded by the negligence
and mismanagement of the king's officers,
and particularly of Don John de Fonseca archdeacon
of Sevil, who being afterwards created bishop
of Burgos, proved an inveterate enemy to the admiral,
and was the chief of those who in the sequel
brought him into disgrace with their Catholic ma
series.


The











*H'44 ^4 ^4444 * t ^44 ^


The Third Voyage of Columbus,

G Columbus having forwarded the expedition
with the utmost care and industry, on the 30th
of May 1498, set sail from the bay of St. Lucre
Barrameda, with six ships loaded with provisions
and necessaries for the relief of the planters in Hispaniola,
and with full resolution to discover the
continent of Paria.

On the yth of June he arrived at the island of
Puerto Santo, where he took in wood and water:
on the 9th he touched at Madeira, where furnished
himself with other refreshments ; and on the
19th reached Genera, where a French iliip having
taken three Spanifh vessels, weighed and flood
to sea with them, at sight of the squadron. The
admiral was no sooner informed of this capture,
than he ordered three of his ships to give chace ; but
they had made too much way to be overtaken : one
of the prizes however, was retrieved by the bravery
of the Spaniards whom the French had left onboard,
and who clapping their captors under the
hatches, brought the vessel safely into port again.

From hence the admiral sailed for the island of
Ferro, where he resolved to send three of his ships
to Hispaniola, while he with the rest should fail
towards the Cape de Verd islands, and from thence
directly over to discover the continent. In consequence
of this determination, he appointed Peter
de Arana, Alonzo Sanchez de Carvagal, and John
Antonio Columbus his own kinsman, captains of
6 the



THE VOYAGES &c. 71

the three (hips bound for Hispaniola, with orders
that each flioulc) command a week in his turn ; and
this disposition being made, the (hips parted, each
squad-ron upon its respective voyage.

On Wednesday June 25th, the admiral descried
the island de Sal, and passing it, came to an anchor
in another called Bona Vista, qn which are six or
seven houses for the accommodation of lepers who
go thither to be cured. The Portuguese who had
charge of the island, immediately went aboard the
admiral to offer his service, and was gratified with
a prefect of same provision, which was extremely
acceptable, as they live very miserably on that barren
soil. Columbus being desirous to know by
what means the leprosy was cured in this place, he
told hi in that the recovery of the diseased was effected
by the temperature of the air, and feeding
upon tortoises, with the blood of which they like-wife
anointed themfelwes-externally. Hither these
animals repair in vas: numbers from the African
shore, to lay their eggs in the sand, during the
months of June, July and August:, and are easily
caught by being turned on their backs while they
are asleep. This is the only employment or exercise
used by the wretched lepers, who have no other
sustenance; and there is neither tree nor spring in
the island, so that they are obliged to drink the water
of certain pits, which is brackish and unpalatable.


The charge of the whole spot is committed to
one person, with four men under his directions, who
are wholly employed in killing and salting goats to
be sent to Portugal. Of these creatures there are
fitch multitudes in the mountains, that in the course
of one year they had sometimes killed to the value
of four thousand ducats 3 and the whole flock
wetut produced from eight goats, carried thither by

the







72 THE THIRD VOYAGE

the proprietor of the island, whose name was Rode
rick Alfonso.

On Saturday June 30th, the admiral sailed for
the island of St. Jago, where he came to an anchor
next day in the evening, and sent ashore to buy
some cows and bulls, as a live flock for his plantation
in Hispaniola: but finding he could not be
furnished without some difficulty and delay, he
would not slay in such an unhealthy place, which
was always covered with a thick fog; and sailed on
Thursday to the south-weft, resolving to continue
in that course, until he should be under the Line,
and then fleer due west, in searches some undiscovered
country. He accordingly proceeded, notwithstanding
strong currents setting violently to the
north and north-weft, until he arrived in five degrees
of north latitude, where he was becalmed for
eight days, during which the heat was so excessive
that the men could hardly breathe j and had not the
air been sometimes cooled with rain and fogs, the
crew would have run the risque of being burnt
with their ships; so that the admiral resolved to
proceed no farther to the southward, but fleer due
west, at least until he should see how the weather
would settle*

On Tuesday July 31ft, having sailed many days
in a westerly course, and judging the Caribbee
islands were to the northward, he determined to
change his direction and make for Hispaniola, being
in great want of provision and water. He
therefore flood to the northward, and one day
about noon, a sailor from the round-top saw land
to the westward, at the distance of fifteen leagues,
stretching towards the northeast as far as the view
could extend. Salve regina and other prayers were
said by the seamen, and the admiral distinguished l
this land by the name of Trinity, because three jd
mountains on it appeared at the same time.

Failing M




OF COLUMBUS. 73

Sailing due west, he anchored five leagues beyond
a point which he called de la Galena, from a
rock that at a distance resembled a galley under
fail: but, here being no conveniency to take in
water, he sailed farther west, and cast anchor at
another point, which he denominated de la Plata,
where the people landing, found water in a delicate
brook, without seeing any hut or people; tho, in
coasting along, they had left behind many houses
and towns. Indeed they found some fishing tackle,
and the prints of the feet of beasts, some of which
seemed to be goats, by the skeleton of one that
they perceived on the beach. That same day being
the 1 ft of August, in sailing between Cape
Galena and la Plata, they discovered the continent
at the distance of five and twenty leagues, and
mistaking it for another island, gave it the name of
]fia Santa.

The Trinity, between the two points, extended
thirty leagues from east to west, but had no harbour
in all that spice, tho the country seemed very
pleasant, abounding with trees and villages. This
run they accomplished in a very iliort time, because
the current set to the westward like a rapid river,
altho* the tide rose and fell above forty paces along
shore.

The admiral perceiving that he could have no
account of the country at this cape, that the (hips
could not be watered without difficulty, and that
there was no convenience for careening, proceeded
to a more westerly point of land, which he named
del Arsenal, where he thought his boats would not
be so much incommoded by the easterly wind which
prevails on this coast. In 1 is way, he was followed
by a canoe with five and twenty men, who flopped
within cannon shot, calling out and talking very
loud : as what they said could not be understood,
he ordered some of the men to allure them to the

Vol. I. E flop,


74 THE THIRD VOYAGE


flip, by (hewing little brass basons, looking glasses,
and other toys, of which the Indians used to be
enamoured : but, this expedient proving ineffectual,
he desired one of the men to ascend the poop
and play upon the tabor and pipe, while others
danced around him. The Indians no sooner
heard the musick, and saw the gesticulations of the
Spaniards, than they put themselves in a posture of
defence, braced their targes, and (hot their arrows
among them : and the admiral allowed his people
to punish their insolence with their cross-bows,
which soon compelled the savages to retire ; tho*
they went along side of another caravan, without
apprehension, and were civilly treated and dismissed
by the captain, who said they were well
shaped and whiter than the inhabitants of the other
islands ; that they wore long hair tied with firings,
and covered their oddities with clouts.

The ships being watered at Punta del Arena!,
from trenches which in all probability the fishermen
had made, the admiral proceeded to another
mouth or channel towards the north-weft, which
he called Boca del Drag, to distinguish it from
the watering-place he had left, which had the appellation
of Boca cela Sharpe. Thereto mouths
or channels are made by the two weftermoft points
of the Trinity island, and two other of the continent,
lying almost north and south of one another.
In the midst of the Boca del Drag, where
the admiral anchored, is a rock, which he called el
Gallo ; and through the other the sea ran so furiously
to the northward, that it resembled the
mouth of some great river. As the ships lay at anchor,
they were assaulted by an increased stream
running northward with an hideous noise, which
meeting with another current from the gulph of
Paria, swelled up the sea with terrible roaring, to
the astonishment and consternation of the Spaniards,





i.

j






OF COLUMBUS. 7S

&rds, who expelled to be overwhelmed. However,
they suffered no other damage than that of
seeing one of the ships drag her anchor, tho she
was afterwards brought up by the help of her sails.
This danger being passed, the admiral weighed
anchor, and sailed westward along the south coast of
Paria, which he then believed to be an island, and
hoped to find a way northward to Hispaniola ;
but, tho the coast abounded with ports, he would
not enter any, as all that sea was land-locked, and
formed into an harbour by the continent.

On the 5th day of August, while the ships lay
at anchor, the boats being sent ashore, found
plenty of fruit peculiar to that climate, a great
quantity of wood, and some signs of people who
had fled at their approach. Sailing fifteen leagues
farther down the coast, where he dropt anchor, a
canoe with three men came aboard of the caravan el
Borneo, and being carried to the admiral, the men
were civilly treated, presented with toys, and sent on
Chore at a place where flood a number of Indians.
These sooner understood the pacific-disposition of
the Christians, than they came along side in their
canoes, to barter with the same sort of things which
the Spaniards had bought at the other islands: but
the people here had no targets nor poisoned arrows,
which are peculiar to the Canibals.

.They drank a liquor as white as milk, and another
of a turkish hue, that tasted like wine made
of sour grapes. The men cover their heads and
middle with well woven cotton cloths of different
colours; but the women here, as well as in Trinity
island, were stark naked : they seemed in general
to be more civilized and tractable than the inhabitants
of Hispaniola, and were particularly fond of
brass trinkets and bells—As nothing of value appeared
among them but a few inconsiderable plates
of gold that hung about their necks, the admiral

E 2 ordered





76 THE THIRD VOYAGE

ordered six of them to be taken on board, and proceeding
to the westward, touched at two other high
islands, well inhabited by people who Teemed to be
richer in gold plates than thole he had left: they
said it was produced in other islands to the weft-ward,
inhabited by Canibals. The women wore
firings of beads about their arms, Tome of them
being very fine strong pearls, which they signified
were found in oysters taken to the westward and
northward of Paria; and the admiral having purchased
some of them, for a present and sample to
their catholic majesties, Tent the boats to make
further inquiry about this precious commodity.
When the Spaniards landed, they were received ina
friendly manner by the natives, who flocked
round them, and conduced them to an house,
where they were hospitably entertained with victuals
and that sort of wine we have already mentioned.
These Indians were of a fairer complexion, opener
countenance, and better shape than those the Spaniards
had hitherto seen, and wore their hair cut
ftiort by the ears, according to the Spanifh fashion :
they said their country was called Paria, expressed
a desire of living in amity with the Christians,
and suffered them to return to their ships in peace.

The admiral continuing to sail westward, found
the water growing more and more (hallow, so that
he would not venture to proceed farther in his own
Ship, but, anchoring upon the coast, sent the small
caravan el Borneo to discover whether there was an
outlet to the westward among those islands. She
returned next day, which was the nth of August,
with a report that what Teemed islands, was one
continued continent : so that Columbus stood to
the eastward and palled the freights, which he saw !
between Paria and the island of Trinity. This passage
he effected with great difficulty and danger,
arising from three different boisterous currents; and

August l









OF COLUMBUS. 77

August* the 13th, he began to sail westward along
the coast of Paria, from which he intended to (land
over to Hispaniola, being now satisfied that it was
a continent, from the report of the Indians, the
extent of the gulph of pearls, and the largeness of
the rivers that run from it into the sea. In their
course, the weather being calm, he was carried by
the currents to the north west. On Wednesday
August 15th, he left Cape de las Concha to the
southward, and the island Margaret to the
weft, steered,, by six others, which he called las
Guards, and three more northerly, denominated
losTeftigos; and on Monday the 20th, came to
an anchor between Beach and Hispaniola, from
whence he sent some Indians with a letter to his
brother the Adelantado. He now flood to the
eastward j and on the 30th, entered the harbour of
St. Domingo, where his brother had built a city so
called, in memory of his father, whose name was
Dominick, v,.

By this time, he was almost blind with over
watching, and quite exhausted with fatigue 5 but,
he now flattered himself with the prospect of enjoying
his repose in the bosom of peace and tranquillity.
Nevertheless, he was grievously disappointed
in this expectation, for he found the whole
island in disorder and rebellion. 1 he greatest part
of those he had left were dead, above one hundred
and sixty were miserably infected with the
venereal distemper; a great number had rebelled
with one Francis Roldan, whom he had left as
alcalde mayor or chief justice; and his chagrin was
completed, when he did not find the three ships
which he had dispatched before him from the
Canaries.

We have already observed, that a great deal of
time elapsed before Columbus could obtain from
their catholic majesties, a supply for the colony of

E 3 Hispaniola j




78 THE THIRD VOYAGE

Hispaniola : in this interval, provisions beginning
to sail among the Spaniards of that island, they began
to murmur, became dissatisfied with their situation,
and even despaired of the admiral's return.
Roldan, whofepoftgave him confiderable'influence,
resolved to profit by this spirit of discontent, so as
to center the whole power in his own hands, and
with this view encouraged the murmurs of the
malcontents against the lieutenant and his brother
James, to whole insolence and tyranny he
imputed all their wants and sufferings, and even
tampered with some chiefs of the island, whom he
endeavoured to attach to his own party. FI is intrigues
met with such success, that a great number
of the Spaniards were alienated from the brothers
of Columbus, and even made several attempts upon
their lives : at length Soldan pulling off the mask,
assembled his men to the number of sixty five, and
attempted to possess himself of the town and fort
of Conception ; but this scheme miscarried, through
the vigilance of Railefter the commandant, w 7 ho
having got intimation of his design, communicated
it to the lieutenant, from whom he received a reinforcement.
In consequence of this rebellious behaviour,
the Adelantado ordered Roldan to resign
the rod of justice, and submit himself to an impartial
trial: but these commands be rejected with
disdain, and marched with his mutineers to Isabella,
where having in vain tried to launch a caravan
which was upon the stocks, he plundered the magazines
and storehouses, and obliged James Columbus
to retire into the fort for protection. He
afterwards fell upon the cattle that grazed in the
neighbourhood, killed a number for provision, and
took all the beads of burthen, to serve his people
in their march to the province of Xaragua, w 7 here
they intended to fix their habitation, because it
was the moil pleasant and plentiful part of the

id and 3


OF COLUMBUS. 79

island, and abounded with beautiful women. But
before he set out for this retreat, he resolved to
make trial of his strength, and surprize, if possible,
the town of Conception, where he purposed to
murther the lieutenant, from whom he did not
doubt that he (hould be a le to seduce his men,
who were but too fond of the idle and voluptuous
life which he intended to lead. The Adelantado,
who was a man of equal courage and discretion,
took such measures to prevent this seduction, that
not one of his people would forsake him, and he
marched out against Roldan, who did not think
proper to hazard an encounter, but made shift by
artful insinuations to the prejudice of Columbus,
to engage Guarinvex, a powerful cacique in his
company. In consequence of his suggestions, this
Indian chief entered into an association with other
lords of the island, who were cajoled with the hope
of seeing their tribute remitted ; and it was re
solved that, at the full moon, the natives should fur-prize
and murther the Spaniards, who lived among
them in small detached parties, for the convenience
of finding substance. This project likewise misgave,
through the ignorance of the Indians ; for,
some of them being mistaken by the appearance of
the moon, fell upon the Christians before the appointed
time, and were easily repulsed : by this attempt
the conspiracy was discovered, and the Spaniards
were afterwards so much upon their guard,
that they had no chance of succeeding in another
effort.

Roldan was not a little mortified at these repeated
miscarriages, and thinking himself unsafe in
any other part of the island, retired with his followers
to Xaragua, proclaiming himself the protector
of the Indians against the insolence and oppression
of the lieutenant and his brother. His
artful misrepresentations not only had an effect

E 4 among









I


So THE THIRD VO Age

among the natives, Tome of whom refused to pay
the fettled tribute, but likewise left an impression
upon the minds of those Spaniards who (fill remained
under the government of the lieutenant :
many of them were, by the nature and warmth
of the climate, disposed to lead a life of idleness,
and as they had received no supplies from Spain
for a confiderable' length of time, they grew discontented
; and .indeed such a spirit of disobedience
had diffused itself among them, that the Adelantado
duril not venture to punish the guilty, for fear of a
general insurrection and revolt. From these apprehensions,
however, he was in some measure
freed by the arrival of the first two ships which
were sent out in consequence of the admiral's solicitations
: there being a reinforcement of men and
provisions, together with the assurance that the admiral
himself would soon follow, the people were
encouraged to persevere in their duty, and the rebels
intimidated by the prosper of being punishes
whenever Columbus should arrive. The two ships
being arrived at St. Domingo, Roldan marched
thitherward, in order to furnish himself with De
canaries, and seduce, if possible, some of the newcomers
to his party : but, he was anticipated by
the activity of the lieutenant, who reached the place
before he was within six leagues of it, and guarded
the passes in such a manner that he could not proceed.
Nevertheless, as he earnestly wished that the
admiral might find the island in tranquillity, the
Adelantado sent overtures of accommodation to
Roldan by Peter Fernandez Cornell, commander
of the two ships, whom he received inanhoftile
manner, and sent back with a contemptuous refusal
Things remained in this situation, till the arrival
of the three ships which the admiral had detached
from the Canary hands. These vessels
proceeded with favourable winds, until they made

the



OF COLUMBUS. 81

• . /

the Caribbees ; but as their pilots were unacquainted
with the ports of Hispaniola, instead of entering
the harbour of St. Domingo, they were driven by
the currents as far westward as the province of
Xaragua, where they were visited by Roldan and
his followers, and a great number of their people
debauched into his service. The three captains
understanding that there was a division between the
lieutenant and the chief justice, agreed that Cara-
vajal should slay in Xaragua, and endeavour to
effect an accommodation ; that John Anthony Columbus
should conduct the workmen over land to
St. Domingo, and that Arana should sail about
with the ships. Accordingly John Anthony Columbus
landed with forty men, and on the second
day of his march, he was abandoned by all his
followers, who deserted to the rebels, except six
or seven, with whom he was fain to return onboard,
after having in vain expostulated with
Roldan upon his treacherous conduct on this
occasion. The ships, after a troublesome voyage, in
which their provisions were spoiled, and Caravan
vessel greatly damaged, arrived at St. Domingo,
where the captains found the admiral returned from
the discovery of the continent. He had been informed
by his brother of Roldan’s revolt, and resolved
to send a circumstantial detail of the whole
affair to their catholic majesties. Mean while, that
he might not be accused of having neglected to
take any one step that could quiet these dissensions,
he desired Ballefter, who was near Roldan, to demand
a conference, and tell him that the admiral
was extremely sorry for the breach that had happened
between him and the lieutenant, and very
desirous of healing it up ; that he should be glad to
see him, and, if he thought proper, would grant
him a safe conduit. At the same time, Columbus
understanding that the rebels complained of their

E 5 being












82 THE THIRD VO Y AGE

being detained upon the island, by the want of
vessels to reconvey them to their own country, he
published a proclamation, giving leave of departure
to all that would return to Spain, and promising to
supply them with free passage and provisions.
Notwithstanding these concessions, Roldan treated
all his advances to reconciliation with indignity
and insult, telling Ballefter, that it was in his
power either to support or suppress the authority of
the admiral, with whom he would not treat, except
through the mediation of Caravajal, whom
he knew to be a man of honour and discretion.

Although Columbus had great reason to suspect
the fidelity of this man, who had actually supplied
the rebels with arms while the (hips lay at Paraguay,
yet as he was a person of consequence and
a good (bare of prudence, which he thought would
influence him to a St with sincerity in this negotiation,
he bentham and Ballefter as deputies to Roll
dan, who refused to treat, on pretence that they had
not set at liberty fame of his Indian friends, whom
they had taken in actual rebellion : he likewise sent
an insolent letter to the admiral, subscribed by his
followers, renouncing all obedience to his authority.
He was, afterwards, however prevailed upon
to accept of a safe conduct, and visit the admiral,
to whom he made such extravagant proposals
as the other could not embrace without bringing his
own character into contempt. He, therefore, explained
his reasons for rejecting them, and proclaimed
a free pardon to all those who should return
to their duty and allegiance within the space of
thirty days : and about the same time, he sent five
ships to Spain with a particular account of the colony,
and dissensions, addressed to their catholic
majesties. A copy of the pardon, together with
new overtures of peace, was conveyed to the rebels
by Caravajal, and after great altercation and

dispute 5


OF COLUMBUS. 83

dispute, both sides at length agreed, that the admiral
should deliver to Roldan two good ships, well
manned, rigged and victualled, for transporting
him and his people to Spain, from the port of Paraguay;
that he should issue an order for the payment
of their Salaries and wages, to the day of
their departure; and restore such of their effects as
had been Seized by his or the lieutenants order : and
that within fifty days from the ratification of this
agreement, they should leave the island. Matters
being thus compromised, the admiral gave orders
for equipping the ships, but, necessaries being very
Scarce, and the weather extremely boisterous, Sometime
elapsed before they could be brought round to
Xaragua, and in that interval, Roldan changed his
mind, and taking advantage of the delay, during
which he Said, his people had consumed a great
part of the provision that was intended for the
voyage, he renounced the agreement and refused
to embark. Caravajal, who went to Xaragua
with the ships, after having in vain exhorted the
rebels to comply with the articles of the agreement,
entered a protest against their proceedings,
and returned with the flip to St, Domingo, where
he told the admiral, that Roldan hill expressed a
desire ot seeing the affair accommodated, and desired
a safe conduct, by virtue of which he would
come and treat in person. Columbus, knowing
the mutinous disposition of his own people, was
extremely sollicitous about healing the division,
and not only complied with Roldan’s demand, but
went round with two caravans to the port of Azure,
which is near Xaragua, and there he had a *
conference with the rebel chief, in which it Was
agreed, that the admiral should send home fifteen
of Roldan’s followers in the first ships bound for
Spain j that he should give land and houses, in lieu
of pay, to those who remained \ that an a 61 - of

E 6 general














84 Thetford VOYAGE

general amnesty should pass and be published, and
that Roldan should a-new be appointed perpetual
judge.

Th is affair, which had been so long in agitation,,
being thus adjusted, the admiral appointed a captain
to march a body of men round the island, in
order to pacify, reduce and punish the rebellious
Indians, while he himself proposed to return to
Spain, with his brother the lieutenant, that no cause
of animosity might be left in Hispaniola, so as to
endanger another revolt. While he was employed
in making preparations for the voyage, Alonzo de
Ojeda arrived in the island with four ships, from a
discovering cruize, and putting into the port of
Yaquimo, not only committed a&s of outrage upon
the Indians, but by letters began to tamper with
feme of the Spaniards, who were hardly as yet confirmed
in their duty after the late troubles; to
these he insinuated that queen Isabella was in a very
bad (late of health, and that after her decease, the
admiral would find no protection at court, but, on
the contrary, must fall a victim to the hatred of
Ojeda’s kinsman the bishop, whom we have already
mentioned as the inveterate enemy of Columbus.
7 he admiral being informed of his proceedings,
ordered Roldan to march against him.
with one and twenty men; and accordingly the
chief justice came upon him so suddenly, at the
house of a cacique called Haniguaba, that finding
it impossible to escape, and being tub weak to
make any opposition, he went forth to meet him,
excused his landing, upon pretence of being in
want of provision, and declared he had no intervention
to disturb the repose of the island. T hen
he told Roldan, that he had discovered six hundred
leagues to the westward along the coast of Paria,
where he found people who sought the Christians
band to hand with such valour, that he could make


OF COLUMBUS, 85

no advantage of the wealth of the country, from
whence he had brought some skins of deer, rabbets,
tygers and gaaninis ; and concluded with a
promise, that he would soon sail round to St. Domingo,
and give the admiral an account of his
voyage. Notwithstanding these professions, he
failed to the province of Xaragua, where he fe
duce a good number of the people who had been
in rebellion, by telling them them that he and Ca
ravajal were appointed by their majesties, counsellors
and checks upon the admiral, and that as he had
not been just enough to pay them, they should go
under his command, and do themselves justice by
force. This wild scheme being opposed by some
of the Spaniards, who despised the preemption of
Ojeda, a tumult ensued, in which several persons
were killed and wounded ; and Roldan, who had
rejected his proposals, marching a second time
against him, he was fain to take refuge in the (hips.
The chief justice, perceiving he was out of his
reach, invited him to come ashore and treat of an
accommodation, and upon his refusal, took, his
boat by stratagem ; so that he was obliged to submit
to a treaty, in consequence of which he left
the island. Not long after his departure, another
commotion was raised by one Ferdinand de Guevara,
who was in disgrace with the admiral, for having
been concerned in the late sedition. This man being
exasperated against Roldan, who would not
permit him to marry the daughter of Canna queen
of Xaragua, began to set up for himself, and entered
into a conspiracy with one Adrian de Monica,
who had been a chief actor in the first rebellion ;
these two projectors engaged many people in their
interest, and resolved to surprise and murther the
chief justice, whom Guevara considered as his
greatest enemy, and the chief obstacle to his design.




Roldaq


S6 Thetford VOYAGE

Roldan having got intelligence of their purpose,
concerted his measures so well, that he seized the
chief conspirators, and being directed by the admiral
to punish them according to law, he proceeded
to a fair trial ; in consequence of which,
Adrian was hanged, some others banished, and
Ferdinand with a few confederates sent prisoners tola
Via, where the admiral at that timerefided.

This example, which was absolutely necessary for
the maintenance of peace and subordination, had
such an effects upon all degrees of persons, that
tranquillity was restored through the whole island,
and the Indians submitted without further opposition.
About this time, such rich gold mines were
discovered, that every man began to dig on his own
account, paying to the king one third of what he
found ; and their labour prospered to such a degree,
that one man has been known to gather forty
ounces in one day ; and one lump of pure gold
was found, that weighed one hundred and ninety
six ducats.

While Columbus was thus indefatigably employed
in appeasing the troubles of Hispaniola, and
Securing the property of it for their catholic majesties,
he little dreamed what a storm was brewing
against him at home. During the rebellion, a
number of complaints had been sent to Spain by
the malcontents, who represented him as an info-lent
alien, ignorant of the laws and customs of the
Spanifh nation, without moderation to support the
dignity to which he had been railed, oppressive and
cruel in his disposition, and so avaricious that he
not only with-held the pay from the servants of the
government, but likewise embezzled the riches of
the idand. They inveighed Hill more bitterly
against his brother the Adelantado, nor did James
escape the utmost virulence of censure, These invectives
being trumpeted by the friends of the

complainers.


OF COLUMBUS. g ?

complainers, and encouraged by many persons at
court, who envied the success and reputation of
Columbus, such a clamour was raised in Castile, that
the king and queen were every day surrounded in
the streets, and even in the palace, by people demanding
justice against that proud and tyrannic
foreigner, who had oppressed so many Castilians,
and discovered a mischievous country, to be the
ruin and grave of the Spanifh gentry. Other methods
were taken to influence the favourites at court,
who joining the importunities of the people, their
catholic majesties were prevailed upon to send an
inspector general to Hispaniola, with a commission
empowering him to inquire into the admiral's conduct,
and if he should be found guilty,, to send him
home, while he should remain governor of the
island. The person chosen for this office, was one
Francis de Bovadilla, a knight of the order of Ca-larva,
in very low circumstances, who being furnished
with full powers and authority, arrived at
St. Domingo in the latter end of August 1500,
while the admiral was at the Conception, with almost
all the people of consequence, employed in
fettling the affairs of that province, where his brother
had been assaulted by the malcontents.

The new inspector, finding nobody at St. Domingo
who could be a check upon his conduct,
took possession of the admiral's palace, and converted
his effects to his own use ; then assembling
all those whom he found disaffected to the brothers,
declared himself governor; and, in order to
attach the people to his interest, proclaimed a general
remission for twenty years to come. The
next step he took was to require the admiral's pre
fence without delay ; and, to enforce this order, he
Cent him the king's letter, to this effect.




88 THE THIRD VOYAGE

To D. Christopher Columbus, our admiral of the

ocean.

<c We have ordered the commentary Francis dec
Bovadilla, the bearer, to acquaint you with
“ some things from us: therefore we desire you to
yield him entire credit and obedience.”—Given
at Madrid, May 21, 1499.

<c By command of their highnesses,

46 Mic. Perez de Alamazan.

cc I THE KING.

<c I THE QUEEN.

Jr-the

admiral no sooner received this letter, than
he set out for St. Domingo, to wait upon Bova¬
villa ; who without delay or legal information, sent
him and his brother James on board of a flip,
where they were put in irons, under a strong
guard, and entirely excluded from the speech of
any person whatever. Then a process was instituted
again them, and all their enemies admitted
as evidences, who in their depositions were so malicious,
incoherent and absurd, that no person, who
had not been determined at all events to ruin the
accused, would have paid the least regard to their
allegations. But, so far was Bovadilla from doing,
judice on this occasion, that he countenanced the
mod flagrant perjury, and even encouraged the
rabble to insult the prisoners, by reading Scandalous
libels in the market-place, and blowing horns at the
port where the ships lay at anchor. Perhaps the
Adelentado, who was not yet returned from Paraguay,
might have rescued his brothers by force of
arms, had not the admiral ordered him to Submit
quietly, and Surrender himself to the authority of
their majesties, now veiled in the person of their
new governor, who had no sooner Secured their
persons, and laid dried injunctions on Andrew
.Martin the captain of the flip, to deliver the admiral



OF COLUMBUS. tg

moral in irons to the bishop D. John de Fonseca his
old enemy, by whose direction he acted, than he
began to squander the king's revenues among his
creatures, to embezzle the treasure, countenance
all manner of profligacy and extravagance, oppress .
and plunder the Indians, and in short, destroy the
wholesome regulations which had been established.

With regard to the admiral, he declined accepting
the favour of Andrew Martin, who being
ashamed of his situation, would have knocked off
his irons ; but he infilled upon wearing them during
the whole passage, saying he was resolved to keep
them as a memorial of the reward he had obtained
for his service. Nor did he ever change his opinion
in this particular ; for, the fetters were always preserved
in his own chamber, and buried in the same
coffin with his body, at his own request.

On the 20th day of November 1500, he wrote a
letter to their catholic majesties, giving an account
of his arrival at Cadiz; and they understanding his
situation, gave immediate order that he should he
released, and sent him very gracious letters, in
which they expressed their sorrow for his sufferings,
and the unmannerly behaviour of Bovadilla, and
invited him to court, with promise that he should
be shortly dispatched with full restitution of his honour.
Accordingly on his arrival at Grenada, he
met with a very favourable reception from the king
and queen, who expressed their displeasure against
the author of his imprisonment, and promised that
he should have ample satisfaction. In the meantime,
they ordered his affair to be examined, and
the accusation plainly appearing malicious and frivolous,
he was honourably acquitted. Anew governor
was appointed to be sent to Hispaniola, in
order to redress the admiral's grievances, and oblige
Bovadilla to restore what he bad unjustly seized ;
and to proceed against the rebels according to the

nature.











9 o THE THIRD VOYAGE,

nature of their offences. This power and commission
was granted to Nicholas de Obando, commandery
of laws, a man of abilities, but crafty,
cruel and revengeful, who listened to malicious surmises,
and exercised great barbarity upon the natives
and their chiefs. At the same time, it was
resolved, that Columbus should be sent upon some
voyage that might turn to his advantage, and keep
him employed, until Obando could settle the affairs
of Hispaniola. But the admiral being weary
of the fatigues attending such expeditions, extremely
chagrined at the ingratitude of Spain, and
apprehensive of future disgrace from the indefatigable
efforts of his enemies at court, desired to be
excused from embarking again, and would not engage
in the enterprize, until he was strongly solicited
by their majesties, who allured him of their
protection in a letter to this effect: 44 And be ass
sured that your imprisonment was very displease
sing to us; for, you and all men saw, that as
44 soon as we heard of it, we applied the proper
64 remedies. You know with how much respects
44 we have always ordered you to be treated : we
44 have now directed that you (hall receive all
44 worthy and noble usage ; and we promise, that
64 the privileges and prerogatives which we have
44 granted you, shall be preserved in ample manner,
44 according to the tenor of our letters patent*
44 These your children shall enjoy without contrast
diction ; and, if it be requisite to ratify them
44 a-new, we will do it, and order your son to be
44 put in possession of all : for, we desire to hoi
your and favour you in greater matters than these.
44 And be famished we will take due case of your
44 children and brothers after your departure. We
44 therefore pray you not to delay your voyage.”
Given at Valencia de la Torre, March i^th 1502.

The






The Fourth Voyage of Columbus,

rr^HE admiral yielded to these solicitations,
and having received his instructions, set out
in the year 1501 for Semi], in order to superintend
the equipment of his squadron, confining of four
small ships, with one hundred and forty men, including
boys. All the necessary preparations being
made, he sailed from Cadiz on the 9th of May for
St. Catherine, from whence, wednesday i?th
he departed for Axilla, in order to relieve the Portuguese,
who were said to be in great distress ; but,
before he arrived, the Moors had raised the siege.
The admiral had sent his brother D. Bartholomew,
and his own son, together with the captains of the
squadron, to visit the governor, who had been
wounded in an aftauit; and he returned the compliment,
by sending on board a number of gentlemen,
among whom were some relations of Donna
Philippa Mons*, the admiral's Portuguese wife.

That same day he set sail for the Gran Canaria,
where he arrived on the 20th, and took in wood and
water for the voyage. On the 25th, in the evening,
he proceeded for the West Indies, and the wind was
so favourable, that without having handed the sails,
lie arrived at the island of Martinico on Wednesday
June 15th; there having taken in a fresh supply
of wood and water, he stood to the westward
among the Caribbee islands, and on the 24th ran
along the south side of St. John. From thence he
steered his course for St. Domingo, where he intended
to exchange one of his ships, which was a

bad








92 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

bad sailer, that he might continue his voyage with
more advantage, to the coast of Paria, in quell of
the strait which he supposed to be near Veragua and
Nombre de Dios. But that the new commentary,
whom their majesties had sent to call Bovadil-
la to account, might not be surprized at his unexpected
arrival, he, on the 29th of June, being
near the port, dispatched before him Peter de terrors,
one of his captains, signify the occasion he
had for another ship, as well as for shelter against
a storm which he foresaw; and, on account of
which, he desired the commentary would not suffer
a fleet that lay ready for failing to quit the harbour.
So little inclined was this new governor to artist the
admiral with another vessel, that he would not even
allow him to enter the port ; and, disregarding his
advice, permitted the fleet, consisting of eighteen
fail, to go to sea without delay, on their return
to Spain, having on board Bovadilla, Roldan, and
the rest of the admiral's enemies.

They had no sooner weathered the east point
of Hispaniola, than they were overtaken by a dreadful
tempest, in which their admiral foundered with
Bovadilla, and almost all the chief rebels; and of the
whole eighteen ships, not above three or four were
saved, while Columbus, who prognosticated the
storm, sheltered himself as well as he could under
the land. On the second day, however, the wind
rose to such a pitch of fury, that his other three
vessels were forced out to sea ; where the Bermuda,
the flip he wanted to exchange, mu ft certainly have
perished, had not fire been preserved by the admirable
skill and dexterity of D. Bartholomew, who
was allowed to be the most expert seaman of his
time. The ships being thus separated, every one
concluded the other was lost, until, in a few days,
they met again in the port of Aqua, where, upon
comparing their observations, it appeared that Bartholomew



OF COLUMBUS. 93

tholomew had weathered the (term by running out
to sea, like an able Tailor, while Christopher had
avoided great part of the danger, by lying close under
Shore, like a wise astrologer. Indeed the admit
ral’s satisfaction was considerably diminished, by
the mortification and chagrin he felt, upon reflecting,
that he was denied (helter in that very country
which he himself had discovered, and annexed
to the crown of Spain. This Form, together with
its confluences, furnished his enemies with a pretence
for saying, he had raised it by magic art,
for the destruction of the fleet bound for Spain ; and
what added more weight to this supposition, the
only flip of the eighteen, that arrived in Spain
was the Aguja or Needle, on board of which were
4000 pesos in gold, belonging to the admiral, while
the other three, which refilled the fury of the storm,
were forced back to St. Domingo in a shattered condition.


Columbus having refreshed his men in the harbour
of Aqua, where they caught plenty of fish called
farina and manatee or sea-cow, failed to the
port of Brazil, which the Indians call Gracchus,
to shelter himself from another form that was brewing;
and thence departing July 14th, was becalmed
in such a manner, that instead of continuing his
course, he was carried away by the current, to certain
islands near Jamaica, which being very small
and Sandy, he named Los Ports or the Wells; because,
for want of fresh springs, he ordered his men
to dig pits in the sand, from which they drew water
for the use of the flip. Then slanting to the
southward for the continent, he reached the islands
of Granada, near the province now called Honduras,
where his brother Bartholomew going ashore
with two boats, found people like those of the
other islands, a great number of pine trees, and
pieces of lapis calamnafis , which being mixed with

copper










94 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

copper, some of the seamen mistook for gold, and
concealed accordingly. While he remained in this
place, he descried a canoe as long as a galley, and
eight feet wide, with an awning in the middle, made
of palm-tree leaves, not unlike those of the Venetian
gondolas; under this cover, the women, children,
and all the goods were sheltered from the
weather; and, tho the vessel was manned by twenty
five flout Indians, they allowed themselves to betaken
without opposition.

The admiral, rejoicing at this opportunity of
knowing the commodities of the continent, without
being obliged to expose his men to danger, ordered
the cargo to be examined, and found quilts
and shirts of cotton, without sleeves, curiously
wrought and dyed of several colours; some clouts
for the middle, of the same fluff, together with
large sheets, in which their women wrapped them
selves ; long wooden swords edged on each side,
with flint fixed in a groove, with thread and a bituminous
matter, hatchets and bells of copper, with
plates and crucibles for melting that metal. The
provision consisted of such roots and grain as are
used for food in Hispaniola, and a sort of liquor,
made of mais, resembling the English beer. They
had also a good number of cacao nuts, which in
New Spain pass for money, and upon which they
seemed to put a great value; for, notwithstanding
the consternation with which they were seized,
when they found themselves prisoners among such
a strange race of men, they never failed, when one
of these nuts chanced to fall upon the deck, to sloop
down and take it up with marks of eagerness and
concern, as a thing of great consequence. Nor
ought we to omit mentioning their extraordinary
modesty, which was so remarkable, that when some
of them were pulled on board by their clouts, which
gave way, they immediately covered their oddities

with


OF COLUMBUS. 95

with their hands, and the women wrapped themselves
in their (beets, with signs of shame and confusion.
This their sense of decorum had such an
effect upon the admiral, that he ordered them to
be well used, restored their canoe, and gave them
European commodities in exchange for those articles
of their merchandize which he thought proper
to retain: however, he kept one old man called
Giumbe, who seemed to be the wisest and chief
man of the whole, that from him he might learn
some other material particulars of the country, and
use him as an interpreter among the other Indians.
This office he chearfully undertook, and faithfully
discharged in the course of the voyage, as long as
it continued, among people who understood his language
; and when he could be no longer serviceable,
he was dismissed to his hearths content, with many
valuable presents as a reward for his fidelity.

Although the admiral was informed by this Indian,
of the great wealth, politeness, and ingenuity of the
people who lived to the westward in New Spain, yet
knowing, as these countries lay to leeward, he could
sail thither at any time from Cuba, he resolved at present
to persist in his design of discovering the (trait
in the continent, through which he might penetrate
into the south sea, and reach the spice country ;
and accordingly turned to the eastward towards Veranda
and Nombre de Dios, where he was told
th is (trait would be found. Nor was the information
untrue ; inasmuch as the Indians meant a
strait of land or isthmus, which he mistook for a
narrow gulph extending from sea to sea. In quest
of this strait he sailed towards a point on the continent,
which he named Cassius, because there he
found great plenty of trees, bearing a fruit, so called
by the natives of Hispaniola; and near this
cape he saw people who wore painted shirts or jerkins,
and clouts, made of cotton, like coats of mail,

so











96 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

so firing as to defend them against the weapons used
in that country, and even against the stroke of an
European sword. But farther to the eastward, near
Cape Gracias a Dios, the natives are of a fierce
aspect and savage disposition, go stark naked, eat human
flesh, and fish raw as it is taken; and they make
such holes in their ear?, as will admit an hens egg;
from which circumstance the admiral denominated
that coast, de Las Orejas, or, of the Ears. Turning
still to windward, on Sunday August 14th,
1502, Bartholomew Columbus went ashore in the
morning to hear mass, with the colours, captains,
and a good number of men ; and on Wednesday following,
when they went to take possession of the
country dor their catholic majesties, above one
hundred Indians, loaded with provisions, ran down
to the shore, and, on the approach of the boats, on
a sudden retired without speaking one word. The
lieutenant perceiving their timidity, employed the
interpreter to allure them with horse bells, beads,
and other toys, which pleased them so much, that
next day they returned in greater numbers, with
several sorts of provisions, such as hens of that country,
which are better than those of Europe, geese,
roasted fish, and red and white beans, resembling
the kidney beans of Spain. The country, tho low,
was green and beautiful, producing abundance of
pines, oaks, palm-trees, and mirabilis, together
with every sort of fruit or provision to be found upon
the island of Hispaniola. Here likewise were
leopards, deer, and other animals. The people
are like those of the Islands, except in their foreheads,
which are not fohigh; their oddities only
are covered; they seem to have no religion, and
every nation speaks a particular language of its own.
Their arms and bodies are ornamented with different
figures, wrought into the skin by fire. The >:
better sort, instead of caps, wear red and white cots
ton


















































\


/




V











i




/


\

l





f





\





3 .

teV" r Y <-


i




















OF Column U S. 9J

ton cloths; some have short jumps without sleeves,
that reach to their middle, and others have locks
of hair hanging down on their foreheads : but on
a festival, they paint their faces of various colours,
so as to look very terrible and diabolical.

From the coast de las Orejas,' the admiral spent
seventy days in sailing sixty leagues to the eastward,
because the wind and current were contrary all the
time : nevertheless, as there was good riding along
the coast, he tacked to and fro, and dropped anchor
every night under the land ; and on the ! 4th
of September reached a cape, which he called Gracias
a Dios, or Thanks to God, because from thence
the land trended off to the south, so as that he could
prosecute his voyage with the trade wind : nevertheless
a little way beyond this head land, he palled
some dangerous sands that ran out to sea as far as the
eye could reach.

On the 16th, being in want of good water, the
admiral sent the boats into a river, cat the entrance
of which there was such a rippling, occasioned by
the current of the stream, and the wind from the
sea, that in returning, one of the boats, together
with all her men, was lost; so that it was named,
the River de la Defgracia, or of Disaster. Running
ft ill to the southward, he, on Sunday 25th, anchored
near a town called Cariari, and in the neighbourhood
of a little island named Quiriviri, which in
people, soil, and situation, excelled every place he
had yet seen : for the land is high, and abounds with
pasturage, rivers and woods. Cariari is situated
near a great river ; to the banks of which a multitude
of people resorted, some armed with bows
and arrows, and others with staves of palm-tree,
as black as a coal, and as hard as horn, pointed
with the bones of fifties ; a third set were furnished
with clubs : and they seemed to have assembled with
intention to defend their com from invasion.
Vox,, I, F But,


q8 the fourth voyage

But, perceiving the pacific disposition of the Christians,
they expressed a desire of bartering their
commodities, confiding of arms, cotton jerkins,
sheets, and guaninis, which are pieces of pale gold,
worn about rl heir necks like relicks. With these
articles they swam to the boats ; for the Spaniards
did not go ashore that day or the next; nor would
the admiral allow his people to take their goods in exchange,
but presented them with several trinkets, that
they might look upon the Christians as men who despised
all mercenary views. The less the admiral
seemed to regard the traffick, the more eagerness they
discovered to trade with him, and made signs from
the land, inviting his people to come among them ;
but these proving ineffectual, they retired, leaving
every thing they had received on board in a heap
upon the shore, where they were found the Wednesday
following, when the Spaniards landed. The
Indians, supposing the Grangers did not confide in
their Sincerity, sent down an ancient man, of an
awful presence, carrying a flag upon a staff, attended
by two young girls, with guaninis about their necks :
these, at his earned: request, were conduced by
the boats crew on board of the admiral, who ordered
them to be clothed, and fed, and sent on shore
again, where they were received with much satisfaction
by the old man and fifty natives assembled
on the beach.

Next day, the admiral's brother going ashore to
learn something of the country, two of their chief
men came to the boat, and taking him by the arms,
made him sit down upon the grass between them.
In this Situation he began to interrogate them, and
ordered the Secretary to write down their answers;
but, they no Sooner Saw the pen, ink, and paper,
than they were Seized with consternation, and ran
away, believing that theSe were implements of Sorcery
: fear they had performed Some ceremonies of

exorcism









OF COLUMBUS, q 9

exorcism before they approached the Spaniards.
D Bartholomew having quieted their apprehensions,
visited their town, where, in a great wooden
palace, covered with canes, he saw several tombs,
in one of which was a dead body embalmed ; and
in another two human carcasses wrapped up in cotton
(beets, which diderot emit the lead odour: over
each of these catacombs was a board with the figures
of beads carved upon it; and onfome of them were
the effigies of the defends, adorned with guaninis,
beads, and other ornaments upon which they set a
value.

The admiral was so desirous of been? better acquainted
with the nature of this country, and the
manners of the inhabitants, who seemed to be more
civilized than any he had yet seen, that he ordered
seven to be taken, and of these he chose two that
seemed to be the mod intelligent, sending the red:
away with some presents, and an durance that
their companions were detained for no other reason,
than to serve as guides and interpreters along the
coat, and that in a little time they would be certain
]y set at liberty. Notwithstanding these professions,
they imputed the detention to avarice; and
next day, a number of them coming down to the
(bore, fentfour ambassadors on board of the admiral,
to treat for the ransom of their countrymen,
with a present of two wild hogs, which, tho small,
were very sweet. These deputies were entertained
with great civility ; and, tho he would not comply
with their request, sent them away well satisfied,
and amply paid for their hogs, one of which
was hunted on board by a kind of wild cat, of a
greyish colour, that was caught in a wood by one of
the men, after he had cut off one of its fore-legs.
This animal, which is as big as a small grey hound,
leaps like a squirrel from tree to tree, and not only
fades upon the branches with its claws 3 but even

F 2 with




100 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

with its tail, by which it often suspends itself, either
for rest or sport. The hogs, tho naturally very ferocious,
no sooner saw it, than they ran about the
deck, in a fright; and the admiral perceiving their
terror, ordered one of them to be brought near the
cat, which immediately wound its tail about the
hogs snout, and with the foreleg that remained,
fastening upon its pole, would soon have made a
prey of it had not the people interposed. From these
circumstances it appeared, that those cats hunt like
the wolves in Spain.

On Wednesday, Odfober 5th, the admiral sailed
into the bay of Caravan, lix leagues in length, and
above three in breadth, in which are many small
islands; and between them the ships sail as it were
in streets, brushing the trees on each side. The
vessels being anchored in this bay, the boats were
sent to one of the hands, where the men found
twenty canoes, and their people hard by them on
the shore, Hark naked, with little plates, or eagles
of gold about their necks. They expressed no symptoms
of fear ; but, for three horse-bells, gave a gold
plate that weighed ten ducats, and said, there was
great plenty of that metal on the continent, at a
very small distance from this place.

Next day the boats crew went ashore upon the
main land, where they met with ten canoes full of
people, who, refusing to barter away their plates,
two of them were taken, that the admiral might
have a chance for acquiring some material intelligence,
by means of the Cariari interpreters; and
they confirmed what the islanders had said of the
gold, which was at the distance of two days journey
up in the country. From this bay, the admiral sailed
into another hard by, called Arena; on the 17th
put to sea in the prosecution of his voyage; and arriving
at the river Guaiga, twelve leagues from
hence, commanded the boats to be rowed ashore,

where





OF COLUMBUS. hoi

where they were violently assaulted by above one
hundred Indians, who ran furiously into the water
up to the middle, brandishing lances, blowing horns,
beating drums, and throwing Tea-water towards the
Spaniards, at whom they likewise spurned chewed
herbs, with marks of detestation and defiance. notwithstanding
these menaces, they were appeased by
the peaceable behaviour of the Christians, and fora
few horse-bells exchanged sixteen gold plates, to
the value of one hundred and fifty ducats. Next
day, however, they lay in ambuscade for the boats,
and perceiving that no body would venture to land
without security, they ruffled into the water as they
had done the preceding day, and even threatened
to throw their javelins, provided the boats, that lay
upon their oars, would not return to the (hips.
The Spaniards, exasperated at their insolent behaviour,
wounded one of them in the arm with an
arrow, and at the same time the admiral fired a
cannon, the explosion of which terrified them to
such a degree that they fled with precipitation.
Then four men landing, invited them to return by
signs, in consequence of which they laid down their
arms; and coming back, exchanged their plates
very peaceably.

The admiral having got samples of what this
part of the country produced, proceeded toCatiba;
and casting anchor in the mouth of a great river,
perceived the natives assembling by the sound of
drums and horns. They sent two of their number
along side in a canoe, and these having discoursed
with the Cariari interpreters, came on board
without any apprehension, and gave their plates to
the admiral, who in return presented them with
some baubles. This canoe was succeeded by another,
with three men, who behaved in the same
manner. And amity being thus established, the Spaniards
went ashore, and found a great number of

F 3 Indians


102 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

l

Indians with their king, who differed in nothing
from the rest, but in being covered with one leaf
of a tree, because it rained very hard. This sovereign,
by exchanging his plate, set an example to
his subjects, who bartered to the number of nineteen,
of pure gold. Here the Christians saw a great
mass of wall, seemingly built of stone and lime, and
as this was the first part of the Indies where the admiral
discovered signs of structure, he brought away
a piece of it as a memorial.

Failing to the eastward, he passed Bravo ; and
the wind blowing fresh, held on his course to five
towns of great trade, among which was Veragua,
where the Indians said the gold was gathered, and
the plates manufactured. Next day he arrived at a
town called Cubiga, from which he continued his
voyage to another, which he called Porto-bello, or
the Beautiful harbour ; because it is spacious, populous,
and encompassed by a well cultivated country.
He entered this harbour on the 2d day of November,
palling between two small islands, within which
the ships lay close to the shore: and for seven days,
during which he continued here, on account of the
rain and bad weather, canoes came constantly onboard,
with people from the adjacent country, to
barter provisions, and bottoms of fine-spun cotton,
which they exchanged for pins, points, and other
such trifles.

On Wednesday 9th, he sailed from Porto-bello,
eight leagues to the eastward ; but, next day, was
forced back four leagues by stress of weather; and
putting in among the islands near the continent,
where now the town of Nombre de Dios stands,
called the place Puerto de Baftimentos, or the Port
of Provisions, because all those small islands were covered
with grain. A boat well manned being sent
in pursuit of a canoe, the Indians were so terrified
that they leaped into the sea, and escaped, notwithstanding




OF COLUMBUS, 20?

Handing all the efforts of the Spaniards; for when
the boat approached any one of them, he dived like
a duck, and came up again at the distance of a bow-shot
from the place.

Here the admiral continued, refitting the ships,
and mending the cask, till the 23d of November;
when he sailed eastward to a place called Guiga,where
the boats crew being sent ashore, found above three
hundred Indians, ready to trade for such provisions
as they had, and some small pieces of gold that hung
at their ears and noses: but without tarrying sri
this place, he put into a small port, which he called
Retreat, or Retired, because it could not contain
above six ships, and the width of the mouth
did not exceed fifteen or twenty paces, though the
rocks on both Tides appeared above water ash sharp
as diamonds, and the channel between them was
not to be fathomed. The admiral was decoyed
into this confined harbour, by the misrepresentations
of those who were sent to view it, and who
gave a favourable account of it, because here the
ships must lie close to the shore, so as that they
would have the better opportunity of trading with
the natives. He lay nine days in this narrow place,
to which he was confined by bad weather; and at
firs the Indians came very familiarly to trade, until
they were provoked, by the insolence and dido-lute
behaviour of the Seamen, to a£b of open hostility.
As their numbers daily increased, their courage
rose to such a pitch of resolution, that they
came down and threatened to board the ships; and
the admiral, having in vain attempted to appease
them by patience and civility, found it absolutely
necessary to alter his deportment, so as that they
might be convinced of his importance. He therefore
ordered his people to fire some pieces of cannon,
and this noise they answered with shouts,
threshing the trees with (laves, as if they despised

F 4 the





104 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

t

the explosion, which they believed to be the effect
of thunder, used to terrify them. Then he loaded
one of the great guns with shot, and pointing
it at a number assembled upon an hillock, the ball
Jell in the midst of them, and soon made them sensible
there was something more than empty noise :
for they instantly fled with such consternation, that
for the future they durst not appear even behind the
mountains. These people were the hest shaped Indians
of any he had yet seen ; tall and "thin, without
prominent bellies, which are frequent in this
country. In this harbour were abundance of very
large crocodiles or alligators, that sheep ashore, and
emit a musky scent, and are so ravenous that they
will devour men if they can take them at advantage,
tho they are Tearful and cowardly when attacked.


The admiral perceiving that the violent winds
from the call; and north-east continued to blow without
ceasing, and that he could no longer trade with
the inhabitants of this coast, he resolved to return
and satisfy himself of the truth of what was reported
concerning the mines of Veragua ; and therefore,
on Monday, December 5th, sailed back to Porto-bello.


Next day, while he held on his course, the wind
lifted to the west, but as lie did not think this
was a fettled gale, he bore up against it for feme
days, during which the weather was very unsettled
and unruly, in so much as the sailors could scarce
stand upon deck ; for the sky Teemed to be finking
in a deluge of rain, the whole air appeared like a
furnace of lightening, and the thunder roared so incessantly,
that the people mistook it for the firing
of guns in signal of distress. The men, who were
constantly wet to the skin, and exposed to these
dreadful peals and flashes, began to be terrified and
to despair, especially as the wind Drifted in their

* teeth


OF COLUMBUS. 105

teeth whenever they endeavoured to make any harbour;
and in the midst of this danger and diffraction,
they had well nigh been overwhelmed by a
dreadful water-spout that rose from the sea to the
clouds, as thick as an ordinary butt, whirling about,
and dashing with a mod: tremendous roar. To
complete their misfortunes, they lost sight of the
ship Cairo, which they concluded was lost, until
they saw her again at the end of three dismal dark
days, in which ibe had been obliged to calf anchor,
and afterwards was driven to sea, with the loss of
her anchor and boat

The ships were almost Flattered to pieces by the
temper, and the men quite spent with cold, hunger,
and fatigue, when they were relieved by a calm
that laded two days; during which they were surrounded
by an infinite number of (harks, so greedy
that they would bite at the hook tho baited only
with a red rag. Many of these were caught, and
out of the belly of one was taken an entire tortoise,
that afterwards lived on board; and from another*
the whole head of a shark which we had cut off and
thrown into the sea : so that the individuals of this
species seem to prey upon one another. Tho some
of the people looked upon them as ominous fish*
and all allowed they furnished a very indifferent
meal, yet the sailors ate them with great eagerness
for by this time they had been eight months at sea*
and consumed all their provision, except the biscuit,
which, from the heat and moisture of the climate,
was so full of maggots, that many delayed eating
till it was dark, that they might not see the vermin
they were obliged to swallow.

On Saturday 17th, the admiral entered an harbour,
three leagues east of Pennon, which the Indians
call Huiva, and there permitted his men to
repose themselves for three days ; during which, going
ashore, they perceived the inhabitants lived in

F 5 huts.


io 5 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

huts, built upon the tops of trees, of slicks laic!
across from tree to tree ; a strange custom, which
mu ft have been owing to their fear of wild beads,
land-floods, or enemies of their own species; for
all along that coast, the different nations are at war
with one another. From this harbour or bay, he
sailed on the 20th ; but no sooner was he at sea than
the tempest began to rage again, and he was driven
into another port: from whence he took his departure
on the3d day, the weather being somewhat mended.
Nevertheless, as if providence had resolved to
thwart the expedition., the wind roughened and became
adverse, so that he was bandied about, to the
astonishment and terror of every person on board,
until he made the harbour where he had been before,
on Thursday the 12th of the same month. Here
he flayed from December 26th, till the 3d of January,
when, • having repaired the flip Gallery,
and taken on board a sufficient quantity of Indian
wheat, wood and water, he sailed back towards Ve¬
ragusa, with contrary winds and foul weather. Indeed
he was so perplexed and fatigued wi h currents,
tempests, and unfavourable gales, between
Veragua and Porto-bello, that he called the whole
coast Costa de Contrasted, or of Contention.

On T thursday he call anchor near a river which
the Indians call Zebra, and the admiral named Beth-hem;
because he arrived in this place on the feast
of the Epiphany. To the w 7 westward of this was the
river of Veragua, the water of which was very shallow,
but the boats went up to the town where the
gold mines were said to be. At first the Indians
flood upon their guard, and threatened to oppose
the landing of the Spaniards 5 but an Indian interpreter
going ashore. and giving a favourable account
of the Christians, they were appeased, and trucked
away twenty gold plates, fonte hollow pieces, like
joints of reeds, and some grains that never were

melted.


OF COLUMBUS. 107

smelted, which they Laid they had gathered a great
way off, upon uncouth mountains.

On Monday, June 9th, the admiral's flip and
the Biscay went up the river Bethlem, and the
Indians came to exchange such things as they had,
particularly fish, which at certain times of the year
come from these up these rivers in incredible numbers
: they likewise bartered some gold for pins,
beads, and hawks bells. Next day they were joined
by the other two (hips, that could not come in the
preceding day for want of water at the rivers
mouth. On the third day after their arrival, D. Bartholomew
went up the river with the boats, to the
town of Quibin ; so the Indians call their king; who
hearing of the lieutenants design, came down in
his canoes to meet him, and they received each
other in a very friendly manner. Next day he
went on board to visit the admiral, who made him
some presents, and he retired very well pleased, after
a conversation that lasted a whole hour, during
which his people exchanged some gold for
bells.

On Wednesday the 24th, the river suddenly swelled
to a surprising pitch, and rushed down with
such impetuosity, that the admiral's ship parted her
cable, and running foul of the Gallery, brought
the fore mail: by the board, and both vessels were
in great danger of perishing. This sudden rise of
the river was supposed to proceed from some terrible
shower that had fallen upon the mountains of
Veragua, which were named St. Christopher's, because
the tops of them reached above the clouds.
On Monday, February 6th, the ships being caulked
and refitted, D. Bartholomew, and sixty-eight men,
were sent in boats to the river of Veragua, and rowing
up, arrived at the cacique town, where he
staid a whole day, inquiring the nearest way to
the mines : in consequence of the intelligence he

F 6 received


hob THE FOURTH VOYAGE



received, they, on Wednesday, travelled four leagues
and an half; and next day, arriving at the place to
which they were directed, gathered foretold about
the roots of trees, which were very thick, and of a
prodigious height. As the foie aim of this journey
was to get information touching the mines, they
immediately returned to the ships, very well pleased
with the sample; tho, as they afterwards learned,
the mines from which they had picked it were not
those of Veragua, which lay much nearer, but of
Lira, a town belonging to people at war with ,
who had directed the Spaniards to his enemy's
mines instead of his own.

On Thursday, February 14th, 1503, D. Bartholomew,
with fifty men, and followed by a boat,
marched to the river of Lira, seven leagues weft-ward
from Bethlem, and next day were met by the
cacique, attended by twenty men, who preferred
him with provisions, and some gold plates were
exchanged : and during this intercourse, the Indians
chewed a dry herb together with a sort of powder.
Having relied a while in this place, the Christians
were conduced to the town, where they were hospitably
entertained with victuals and lodging; and,
soon after their arrival, visited by the cacique of Du-run,
which is a neighbouring town: he was attended
by a great number of his people, who brought
some plates to truck, and told the lieutenant, that
up in the country there were caciques who had
abundance of gold, and a great number of men armed
like the Spaniards.

Next day D. Bartholomew sent back twenty ment
the ships, and with the other thirty proceeded towards
Zobabra, where he saw above six leagues of
ground full of mais, and cultivated like corn fields.
Here he was kindly entertained by the natives, as
well as at another town, called Cateba, where he
purchased some plates: but having now advanced a

great


OF COLUMBUS, . jog

great way from the (hips, without finding any harbour
along the coast, or river larger than that of
Bethlem, where he could conveniently settle a colony,
according to the intention of the admiral, he
returned with a good quantity of gold, to the place
from which he had taken his departure, and ia
which a resolution was now taken, to make a settlement,
with eighty men under his command. Proper
dispositions being made, they began to build houses,
about a cannons foot from the mouth of the
river Bethlem, the materials being timber, and the
thatch confiding of the leaves of palm-trees that
grew along the shore. Several pieces of cannon,
with powder, provision, and other necessaries, were
lodged in a large magazine erected for that purpose ;
except a quantity of wine, biscuit, oil, vinegar,
cheese, and grain, which was deposited on board
of the flip Gallery, to be left with cordage, nets,
hooks, and other fishing-tackle, for the use of the
colony. Indeed these lad: could not but be of signal
service, in a country that abounds with such quantities
of fish. These the natives took with hooks
made of tortoiseshell, which they cut with a thread,
here as well as in the islands. Among others, the
sea produces a very small fish, called titi, which are
so persecuted by their enemies, that they shy up to
the surface of the water, where they are caught in
1 title masts or small nets, and being wrapped in
leaves, are dried in an oven, so that they may be
kept for a long time : they likewise catch abundance
of pilchards, which being pursued by other fish, will
leap two or three paces upon the dry land ; tho they
are also taken in another manner. In the middle
of their canoes, from stem to stern, the Indians
raise a partition of palm-tree leaves, two yards high,
and plying about the river, make a noise by beating
the shore with their oars, so as to frighten the pilchards,
which, mistaking the leaves for land, leap uno


THE FOURTH VOYAGE

on them in great quantities, and fall into the canoe,
Besides these, they take great numbers of other fish,
that pass along the coast in shoals, and bake them,
as already observed. As for liquor, they have plenty
of a very palatable kind of beer made of mais,
and agreeable wine, made of the juice and pith of a
certain kind of palm tree, as well as of a fruit that
resembles a great pine apple.

'The houses being reared, and the regulations
made for the maintenance of the new colony, the
admiral resolved to return to Spain without further
delay ; when his voyage was effectually retarded
by want of water to carry him out of the river,
as well as by the terrible furs that beat upon the
shore, threatning immediate deduction to any vessel
thatfhould approach it. This circumstance was
the more unfortunate, as the rains, which alone
could swell the river, were pad, and the bottoms
of the ships were like honey-combs, being worm-eaten
through and through. To complete the diff
acer, it was casually discovered by means of an interpreter,
that Quibio intended to set fire to the
houses of the Christians, who had made a settlement
in his dominions, contrary to the inclination of
him and his people. In this dilemma, the admiral
concerted measures with his brother, for taking,
the cacique prisoner, together with his principal
men, and carry them to Spain as homages for the
good behaviour of his subjects. Accordingly, on
the 30th of March, the lieutenant, with above seventy
men, proceeded to the village of Veragua,.
confiding of draggling houses; and at a small distance
from it, received a message from the cacique,
desiring he would not come up to his house, which
flood by itself upon a hill : notwithstanding this intimation,
he resolved to go up with five men only,
after having ordered the red; to follow, two and two,
at some distance, and when they should hear a

musket



OF COLUMBUS. m

mu fleet fired, to beset the house, that no body
might escape. As he approached the residence of
Quibio, he was met by another messenger, who
begged he would not enter the house, for the cacique
himself would come out, tho he was wounded
by an arrow. These entreaties were the effect
of jealousy, which prevails so much among the Indians
of this coast, that they will not allow their
women to be seen. Quibio coming to the door,
according to his promise, was immediately seized
by the lieutenant, and the musket being bred, the
rest of the Spaniards surrounded the house, in which
were about thirty persons, who seeing their prince
taken, made no opposition. Among these were the
wives and children of the cacique, together with
force men of note, who offered to ransom themselves
with a great quantity of gold that was concealed
in an adjoining wood. Bartholomew, without
regarding these offers, ordered Quibio and the
rest, male and female, to be bound, and carried onboard,
before the country should take the alarm ;
and as he himself intended to stay, with the greatest
part of the men, in order to secure some of the
cacique kindred and subjects, whom he had not
yet taken, he delivered the prisoners to John Sanchez
de Cadiz, an able pilot, and a man of good
reputation, who undertook, with great confidence
and alacrity, to carry them safely on board of the
admiral. He accordingly embarked with them in
the boat; and Quibio complaining that his hands
were too hard bound, Sanchez, out of compassion,
loosed them from each other, tho he kept the rope
to which he was tied in his own hand. The Indian
prince, finding his hands at liberty, took an opportunity,
while the pilot looked another way, to plunge
into the river, with such violence, that Sanchez
quitted the rope in order to save himself; and as it
then began to be dark, and the boat was immediate


2" THE FOURTH VOYAGE

]y filled with confusion, it was impossible to hear
or see how he went ashore; so that, after a fruitless
search, the pilot was fain to row on board of the
admiral, overwhelmed with shame and vexation.

Next day, the lieutenant, finding it would be impracticable
to overtake the fugitive Indians, returned
with his men to the (hips, and presented the plunder
of Quibio’s house, worth three hundred ducats
in plates and eagles, to his brother, who, having
deducted the fifth part for their catholic majesties,
divided the rest among those who went upon
the expedition.

The colony being now fettled under proper regulations,
and the river being swelled by the rains, Columbus
ordered his ships to be lightened, and towed by
the boats over the barton which all the three struck,
t’no’ without receiving much damage. Then they
took in every thing they had been obliged to untoward
lay waiting for a fair wind to sail for Hispaniola,
from whence the admiral proposed to send
supplies to his new settlement. In this interval,
the boat went providentially ashore-and contributed
to the safety of many Spaniards, who other-wife
must have fallen a sacrifice to the resentment
of the Indians: for Quibio no sooner perceived the
ships at sea, so as that they could give no assistance
to the people who were left, than he resolved to attack
the settlement p and the woods, by which it
was surrounded, facilitated the enterprise. The
Indians therefore, under his command, stole unperceived
to a spot within ten paces of the houses,
and from thence rushed upon the Christians, with
dreadful (hours, throwing their javelins, not only at
those they saw, but also through their slender rooF,
so that four or five were dangerously wounded, before
the Spaniards could put themselves in a posture
of defence. But the lieutenant, who was a man of
great resolution, snatching up a spear, sallied out

upon



OF COLUM BUS. its

upon the enemy, and seven or eight of his people
following his example, soon compelled the savages
to retire into the wood, just as the boat reached the
shore : tho the Indians would not engage hand to
hand after they had felt the edge of the European
swords, and the teeth of a dog that fell furiously
upon them, they continued to throw their javelins
at a distance, until they were driven from,
their covert and obliged to fly, tho not before they
had killed a Spaniard, and wounded seven, among
whom was the lieutenant himself.

During this engagement, captain James Tristan,
whom the admiral had sent ashore with the boat,
would not suffer his men to land ; but, after the fray
was ended, rowed up the river to take in fresh water,
at a place that was quite covered with wood.
From this grove the Indians poured upon him, ina
number of canoes; and thole sustained their
shock with great gallantry, it was impossible to feel*
ter himself or his men from the showers of their javelins,
by which he and his whole boats crew
were killed upon the spot, except one, John de
Neil of Sevil, who chancing to drop over board in
the midst of the fray, dived to the bottom, and gaining
the lahore, made his way through the thickest of
the wood, to the colony, where he gave an account
of the disaster. The new settlers, terrified at this
misfortune, would have relinquished their town immediately,
and gone on board of the admiral without
or hers, had not they been prevented by the lowness
of water at the mouth of the river, which was
not sufficient to float their vessel: nay,' the sea beat
so violently in that place, that no boat c uld be
sent with advice of their distress to the admiral, who
rode in a very dangerous open road, without a boat,
and ignorant of the fate of Tristan and his crew, until
he had the mortification to see them driving down
the river, covered with wounds, and preyed upon


i1 4 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

by a number of carrion-crows. Such a melancholy
spectacle could not fail to create the utmost:
despondence among the people, who were now reduced
to a frnall number, and concluded that the
whole colony had perished. Nor were these presages
without foundation : for the Indians, elated
with the frnall advantage they had gained, returned
to the attack of the settlement, which they carried
on night and day without ceasing ; so that every
Spaniard mud: have been killed, had not they removed
eastward to an open strand, where they
made a barricade of casks and other lumber, and
planted their cannon in such a manner as to make
great havock among the enemy, who durst not venture
to approach those unknown instruments of
carnage.

Mean while the admiral waited ten days for fairweather,
so as that he might send ashore the only
boat that now remained, for intelligence j and in
this interval, some of the prisoners who were confined
in the hold, burst open the hatches in the nighty
and leaped into the sea, and the rest being disappointed
in their hopes of escaping in the same manner,
hanged themselves in despair ; so that now he
had no hostages, by virtue of whom he could makepeace
with Quibio. Ti e weather still continuing
boisterous, and the people being extremely impatient
to learn the fate of their companions, one
Peter de le Defma, a pilot of Sevil, undertook to
sworn ashore, provided he might be carried in the
boat to the place where the furs began to run high.
His proposal being embraced by the admiral, was
put in execution, and he warn off again v with a
circumstantial account of what had happened, including
a detail of divisions and dissensions among
the men ; for D. Bartholomew found it impracticable
to maintain authority and subordination, and they
were unanimous in nothing but their resolution to

leave


OF COLUMBUS. 115

leave the place: they therefore begged the admiral
would take them on board again without delay*
otherwise they would put to sea in their own vessel,
rotten as she was, and rather trust to the mercy
of the waves and weather, than expose themselves
to the barbarous resentment of the savages.
In consequence of this information, Columbus resolved
to slay and take them on board ; and the we aether
becoming more favourable, they came off, withall
their goods and effects, in his boat and some canoes
lashed together , so that in two days nothing
was left behind but the hulk of the flip, which
was so much eaten by the worms as to be unfit for
service.

The whole company being thus reassembled,
to their mutual satisfaction, the admiral sailed along
the coast to the eastward, contrary to the opinion
of all the pilots, who thought he might have reached
St. Domingo, by bearing away to the north;
but he and his brother knew it was requisite to ply
up to windward, before they should strike across
the gulph that divides the continent from Hispaniola:
and as he consulted his own judgment in
this particular, the men began to murmur, from
an apprehension that he intended to sail directly for
Spain, altho he had not provision sufficient forfuch
a voyage. At Porto-bello he was obliged to leave
the flip Bifcaina, which was so leaky and worm-eaten
that she could not proceed ; and turning up
along the coast, he passed the port Retreat, together
with abundance of small islands, which he denominated
las Barba : thence continuing his course
ten leagues, he, on Monday the ifs of May, 1503,
took his departure from a place on the continent
called Marmot, and flood to the northward, the
wind and currents being from the earl.

The pilots and navigators on board affirmed, that
he was to the earl ward of the Caribbees, but he

himself




126 THE FOURTH VOYAGE •

himself was apprehensive that he should not be able
to fetch Hispaniola, and this fear was verified : for,
on Wednesday the loth, he descried two very small
low [stands, which he named Portugal, from the
abundance of turtle found here and in the neighbourhood;
and on the Friday following, after a
run of thirty leagues northwards, arrived at the
islands called Jardin de la Regna, that lie ten leagues
to the southward of Cuba. By this time, the ships
being leaky and crazy, the men were harassed at
the pump, tho very little able to support such fatigue,
because the provisions were now reduced to
a little biscuit, oil, and vinegar; and in this melancholy
situation they were overtaken by a dreadful
florin, in which the flip Bermuda ran foul of the
admiral, and both had like to have foundered : however,
they got clear of each other with much difficulty,
and dropped all their anchors, tho it was the
sheet anchor alone that brought them up; and in
the morning there was but one strand of the cable
uncut, so that if this had given way, they must have
perished upon some sharp rocks that were astern.
The wind being abated, he failed to an Indian
town on the coast of Cuba, called Attain, where
having purchased some refreshments, as the winds,
currents, and condition of the ships would not permit
him to bear up for Hispaniola, he flood over
to Jamaica, pumping and baling all the way. Yet,
notwithstanding their utmost efforts, the water rose
up almost to the deck; and when day appeared, he
put into an harbour called Puerto Bueno, but finding
no fresh vater in this place, he steered to the
eastward into another, called Santa Gloria, which
is enclosed by rocks, where finding it impossible to
keep the ships afloat, he ran them ashore along-fide
of each other, and propping them up on each side,
to as to keep them upright, ordered sheds to be
made on the poop and forecastle, under which the
/ men



OF COLUM BUS. t \ 7

men might be secure from the inclemency of the
weather, as well as the attempts of the Indians.
This expedient he chose rather than that of fortifying
himself on shore, because he should be more able
to restrain his seamen from irregularities, which
might have incensed the natives, on whom he-en¬
timely depended for subsistence, his own provision
having been either spoiled or consumed. As the
natives resorted in great numbers to the ill I ps with
what they had to barter, he appointed two persons
to superintend the market, and prevent abuses or
frauds of either side, as well as to divide the purchase
equally among the people, that nothing might
be embezzled or engrossed. His regulations were
alike agreeable to his own men, who were plentifully
supplied; and to the Indians, who exchanged
two little animals like rabbits, which they called
hutids, for a bit of tin, and cakes of their bread
named zabi, for two or three glass beads, tho, fora
quantity of any thing, they received a hawks
bell ; and a cacique or great man was sometimes
prefer ted with a small looking-glass, red cap, or
pair of scholars.

These necessary steps being taken, the admiral's
next care was, to consult with his officers about
the means of transporting themselves to Hispaniola;
and, after mature deliberation, it was resolved, that
two canoes should be sent thither, with an account
of the misfortune which had happened to the admiral,
and a letter to the governor, desiring that a
ship might be sent immediately to his relief. The
canoes being chosen for this dangerous expedition,
James Mendez de Segura, the admiral's chief secretary,
embarked in one, with six Christians, and ten
Indians to row; and Bartholomew Fresco, a genoese
gentleman, went on board of the other, with
the like number of hands; this last having orders to
return immediately with the news of their safe arrival.





siB THE FOURTH VOYAGE

rival, while Mendez should continue his route overland
to St. Domingo. Thus disposed, they rowed
to the easternmost point of Jamaica, under the conduct
of the admiral's brother, who took care to supply
them with the necessary provision for the voyage;
and as the defiance between the two islands amounted
to thirty leagues, "without any intervening land,
except one little island or rock, about eight leagues
from the coast of Hispaniola, he very judiciously
waited for a calm, and having dismissed them on
their voyage, flayed till they were fairly out of sight,
and then returned to his brother.

In a little time after the departure of these canoes,
the men who were left began to grow sickly, in
consequence of the fatigue they had undergone, and
the change of provision; and (which is the case on
all such occasions) a spirit of discontent diffused itself
among them. hey now caballed and murmured
in private against the admiral, saying, he had
no intention to return to Spain, where he was in
disgrace with their catholic majesties ; nor could he
have any hopes of assistance from Hispaniola, the
governor of which had already refused him shelter
in his distress: and lastly, they suggested that Men
des and Fresco were both lost, other wife the latter
would have returned by this time, according to his
promise. For these reasons it was their business to
consult their own safety, by leaving the admiral,
who was now lame in all his limbs with the gout,
and follow their companions to Hispaniola, where
they would be the better received by the com men
cary Lares, on account of their having abandoned
Columbus, whom he hated. These arguments
„ were suggested and encouraged by two brothers,
called Porras, who assured them of protection on
their return to Spain, from the bishop D. John de
Fonseca, as well as from the Treasurer Morales,
by whom their filter was kept as a concubine: and

such


OF 'COLUMBUS. f 19

such effect bad the insinuations of these ringleaders,
one of whom was captain of the Slip Bermuda, and
the other comptroller of the squadron, that eight and
forty of the men were persuaded to follow them at all
events, and to provide themselves with every thing
necessary for the execution of their purpose. On
the 2d day of January, captain Francis de Pore
whom they had chosen for their leader, amending
the quarterdeck, where the admiral lay confined
?o his bed, 44 What is the reason, my lord,
44 (said he) that you will not return to Spain, but
44 keep us in this place to perish ?” To this ,
Columbus, suspecting the conspiracy,
very calmly replied, that he did not see how
they could return to Spain, until they should be assisted
with a vessel from Hispaniola ; that no man
was more desirous than he to be gone, as well on
account of his own private interest, as for the safety
of his people; and that, for their satisfaction, he
would again fu mm on all his officers to conduit about
the means of gratifying their inclination. T his judicious
remonstrance had no weight with Porras,
who said, it was now no time to talk ; for that
he should either embark immediately, or Bay thereby
himself: then crying with a loud voice, 44 I am
44 going to Spain with those that will follow me,”
all his adherents joined in the exclamation, and immediately
took possession of the forecastle, poop, and
round-tops, so that uproar and universal confusion
ensued. The admiral, tho* lame in bed, hearing
the noise of this tumult, started up in order to quell
the mutiny, but was with-held by his servants, who
were afraid that he would be murdered by the conspirators.
They likewise disarmed and confined his
brother D. Bartholomew, who had bravely rushed
out upon the mutineers, with an half pike in his
hand, and entreated Porras to be gone, without
doing further mischief, or making any attempt upon
8 the



no THE FOURTH VOYAGE

the life of Columbus, for which they could not fail
of being one day severely punished. He did not
think proper to regard this caution, but seizing ten
canoes which the admiral had purchased from the Indians,
embarked with all his followers, who expressed
as much joy as if they had been already landed
in Spain. Upon this occasion, a good number of
the rest, who were not concerned in the combination,
seeing themselves abandoned by their fellows,
and despairing of relief, desired to be taken on board,
to the infinite sorrow and mortification of the admiral,
and those few who remained with the Tick :
and in all probability, had the people been in health,
he would have been deserted by the whole company,
except his brother, and his own faithful servants.
The mutineers in the canoes rowed towards the
east part of Jamaica, from whence Mendez and
Fresco had taken their departure, and in the way
committed all manner of outrages upon the poor
Indians, advising them to apply for redress and repayment
to the admiral, who was the cause of all
the injuries they sustained, and to put him to death
in case he should refuse to give them satisfaction ;
for his design in slaying was no other than to sub
je£fc and involve them in such misery and oppression
as he had already entailed upon the inhabitants of
the other island.

Having in this manner done their endeavours to
embroil the admiral with the natives, they began
their voyage for Hispaniola, with some Indians,
whom they compelled to go on board every canoe
as rowers. They had not made four leagues from
land, when the wind, which was contrary, beginning
to freshen, and the sea to rise, they shipped
some water, and being unacquainted with the methods
of managing those vessels, resolved to lighten
them, by murdering the Indians, and throwing
their bodies into the sea. This inhuman scheme

was



OF COLUMBUS. i 2x

was executed on some, and the rest leaping overboard,
swam until they were weary, then banging
by the canoes to breathe a little, the barbarous russians
cut off their hands; so that eighteen of those
poor wretches perished in this deplorable manner*
and not one would have escaped, had not they kept
a few to steer them back to Jamaica, as they now
thought it impracticable to prosecute their voyage.
When they landed, a council was held, in which
some proposed to take the advantage of the easterly
wind and currents, for running over to Cuba, from
whence they would have a short cut to Hispaniola;
ethers were of opinion, that they should return, and
make peace with their admiral, or deprive him by
force of the commodities and arms that were still in
his possession : but by a majority of voices it was
agreed they should wait for a calm, and put to sea
again directly for Hispaniola. For this opportunity
they tarried a whole month, during which they
ravaged the whole neighbourhood of Aramaquique,
which was the name of that town and district, and
having made two unsuccessful efforts to perform
the voyage, marched by land to the westward,
plundering the defenceless natives, and the weak
villages in their way.

As for the admiral, he exerted all his address and
industry to efface the bad impressions which the mutineers
had made among the Indians ; so that they
continued to supply him with provisions, while he
employed his care and humanity for the relief of
the Tick, until almost all his people were recovered :
but, as the daily expence of subsistence had produced
a scarcity among the Indians, who sow very
little more than is just necessary for their own occasions,
they began to be remiss in their attendance,
especially as they were already flocked with
the commodities of the Christians. They were like-wife
influenced by the desertion and malicious in-vol.
I. G sensations






122 THE FOURTH VOYAGE


situations of such a number of the Spaniards, who
had left their chief in a situation which no longer
commanded obedience and respect. In this dilemma,
Columbus, with his wonted sagacity, fell upon
a very extraordinary expedient for retrieving
his character and affairs with those savages. Knowing
that in three days there would be an eclipse of
the moon, he sent an Indian of Hispaniola, who w r as
on board, to assemble the principal inhabitants of
the district, that he might confer with them about
an affair that concerned them nearly ; and they
obeying the summons, he told them by his interpreter,
he and his people were Christians, and believed
in God who created the heaven and earth,
protected the righteous and punished the wicked 5
and therefore would not permit the rebellious Spaniards
to pass over to Hispaniola, tho he had by his
providence conducted Mendez and Fiefco to that
island, because the intent of their voyage was laudable
: that the same Almighty and all-just Being
was incensed against the Indians for having neglected
to supply his people with provisions, and
determined to punish them with plague and famine;
as a certain token or presage of which, they would
that very night see the moon rise with an angry and
bloody aspects, to denote the mischief that would
certainly fall upon theme-This prophecy had different
eftedls upon the Indians, some of whom were
terrified, while others ridiculed it as an idle story :
but when they perceived the moon in reality eclipsed,
and perceived the darkness increasing as she
rose, universal consternation prevailed among them,
and they came running from all quarters, loaded
with provision, and entreated the admiral with loud
cries and lamentations, to interceded with God in
their behalf, that his wrath might be averted, and
they would for the future take care to supply all his I
wants. In consequence of this promise, Columbus |

7 said j


see


tost

%










OF COLUMBUS, 123

Laid he would use his influence with God, and accordingly
shut himself up, while they remained
without, howling and imploring his assistance ; and
when he perceived the eclipse beginning to go ofl^
he came out of his cabin, bad them be of good
chear, for he had prayed in their favour to God,
who had forgiven them on their promise of being
kind and hospitable to the Christians, and, as a testimony
of his forgiveness, they would speedily see
the moon lay aside her wrathful countenance and
shine with her former splendour-his prognostic
being verified, they praised the God of the Christians,
and ever after continued to provide plentifully
for the subsistence of the admiral and his people ;
for, tho they had formerly seen such eclipses, they
did not think it was possible to foretell them without
an immediate correspondence with the Deity,
and/therefore considered Columbus as a particular
favourite of heaven.

Eight months having elapsed since the departure
of Mendez and Fiefco, of whom there was not yet
the lead intelligence, the people began to be dejected,
supposing the messengers had either perished
at sea, or been killed by the Indians of Hispaniola,
in their way to St. Domingo. These fears were
confirmed by the information of the natives, who
said they had seen a canoe overset, driven upon the
coast by the current. These apprehensions increased
every day, and at lad produced a second
conspiracy, at the head of which was one Bernard
an apothecary of .Valencia, who, with two companions
called Zamora and Violator, formed a
scheme for deferring from the admiral, in imitation
of the other mutineers ; but, the execution of this
project was prevented by the arrival of a vessel sent
by the governour of Hispaniola. The captain,
vvhofe name was James de Escobar, having come
to an anchor near the wrecks, visited the admiral

G 2 with



124 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

with compliments from the commentary, who being
unprovided with a flip sufficient to carry off*
such a number of men, had sent a cask of wine and
two flitches of bacon in a present; and these being
delivered, Escobar, without waiting for a letter,
weighed anchor and departed that same evening;
Tho Columbus was extremely mortified at his
abrupt behaviour, he assessed to say that the caravan
had failed by his directions, because, she being
too small to convey the whole company, he was
resolved to say for a larger vessel, in which they
might all embark at once.—This declaration had
such an effects upon the conspirators, that they
postponed their enterprize : but the truth was.
Tares governour of Hispaniola, being apprehensive
that the admiral, upon his return to Spain, would
be reinstated in the government of that island, had
sent Escobar to reconnoitre his situation, and see
whether or not he might be easily destroyed. By
this caravan, however, Columbus received certain
intelligence of the safe arrival of Mendez and
Fiefco, at Hispaniola, and did not doubt, but that
he should be relieved in consequence of their remonstrances.


We have already observed, that they embarked
in two canoes from the eaffermof! point of Jamaica,
and continued rowing and paddling two
days, during whi h they sustained extremity of
heat, third and fatigue ; for, their fresh water was
alios! expended the firs day, and some of the Indians
actually died for want of refreshment. When
the second day elapsed without their seeing land,
they began to suspect they had not taken the right
course, and universal despondence ensued : but
their hopes were revived, when they saw the moon
rise over land, which was a small island called ,
at the distance of eight leagues from His
manila. Thither they rowed with their utmost efforts,









OF COLUMBUS. 125

forts, and next morning going ashore, found it a
barren rock without tree, shrub or spring; nevertheless,
they took up plenty of rain water from the
holes of the rocks, and some of them drank to
such excess, as produced dropsies and other dangerous
distempers. Having rested and refreshed themselves
with such things as they could pick up along
Shore, they went on board in the evening, and steered
their course to the nearest land of Hispaniola,
which was Cape St. Michael, where they arrived in
the morning. Fiefco, having reposed himself two
days, would have returned to the admiral according
to his promise, but neither Tailors nor Indians
would accompany him in the voyage, so that he
was obliged to desist. As for Mendez, tho he laboured
under a quartan ague which was the effect
of his sufferings at sea, he set out immediately for
Xaragua, and gave an account of the admiral's
situation to the governour, who after much importunity,
gave him leave to go and purchase a flip
at St. Domingo, which afterwards failed to Jamaica,
from whence the admiral sent her to Spain
with packets for their catholic majesties, containing
a detail of his voyage.

In the mean time, Columbus being willing to
compose all differences, sent a messenger to the
mutineers under the two Porras, inviting them to
return to their duty, and comforting them with the
hope of a speedy voyage to their own country, in
as much as he had received the promise of being
relieved, by a caravan from Hispaniola, which had
brought him a present of bacon and wine, part of
which he sent them as a confirmation of the truth
of what he asserted. Their ringleaders dreading
the consequence of a re-union, used all their art
and eloquence in dissuading their adherents from
embracing the terms proposed. They alleged
that the admiral was a cruel and revengeful man,

G 3 who







126 THE FOURTH VO Y AGE

who would take the first opportunity of gratifying
his resentment, should they ever put themselves in
his power ; whereas b\ r (landing upon their own
bottom, they should one day be able to effect their
own release from this island, and then by their interest
at court, they could not fail to bring their
oppressor again into disgrace. As for the caravan
from Hispaniola, they affirmed it was no other
than a phantom, which the admiral, who was a
great magician, had railed by enchantment ; that
the pardon he offered was a snare, and his whole
soul a composition of delusion and deceit. These
suggestions succeeded so well among their followers,
that the messenger was dismissed, after having
been told that they would peaceably depart for His
manila, provided the admiral would supply them
with a vessel for that purposes or, if he had but one,
assign one half of it to them for their own convenience,
and in the mean time give them an equal
share of the deaths and commodities that were still
in his possession; otherwise, they would come and
take the whole by force of arms.

This threat they actually resolved to put in execution,
and marched down to an Indian village
within a quarter of a league of the wrecks : and
the admiral being informed of their design, detached
fifty men well armed, under the command
of his brother, who had orders to expostulate with
the rebels, and refrain from ails of hostility, unless
he should be first attacked. D. Bartholomew,
having reached a ring ground within bow-shot
of the mutineers, sent a message to their captain,
desiring a conference ; but this condescension was
treated with contempt, as the effect of fear, and
they immediately fell upon his men in great confidence
of victory; six of the boldest having taken
an oath to fight their way directly to the lieutenant,
whose death they believed would soon disconcert




I


OF COLUMBUS. 127

cert his followers. However, they were disappointed
in their expedition ; for, at the very first
charge, five of the six were fain, and among
these John Sanchez, from whom Qiiibio made his
escape, and John Barba, the very two first persons
who drew their swords on board in support of the
conspiracy. As for their leader, Francis de
Porras, he was taken prisoner, and his people so
roughly handled, that they soon turned their backs
and fed with precipitation ; so that the lieutenant
obtained a complete victory, and returned to the
ships with a good number of prisoners: he himself
being wounded in the hand, and only one gentleman
of his side having received an hurt with a
spear, of which he afterwards died. Next day the
fugitives sent a petition to the admiral, imploring
his mercy, and promising to submit themselves to
his good pleasure ; and he immediately gave them a
free pardon, and took them again into his protection
: but, in order to avoid future animosities, and
a scarcity of provisions on board, he detained Port
ras in confinement, and appointed a proper person
to command and lead them about the island, for
the convenience of finding subsistence, in exchange
for commodities, with which they were supplied
by his direction. Among those of their side who
suffered in the engagement, w^s Peter de Oedema
the pilot, who (as we have observed) swam ashore
at Bethlem. This man, having received a number
of wounds in the fray, fell over the rocks, and was
not found till next day in the evening, when the
Indians, to their utter amazement, discovered him
alive. His skull was laid open so that his brains
appeared, his arm was almost cut off, the calf of
one leg hung down to his ancle, and one foot was
sliced from the heel to the toes. Notwithstanding
these desperate wounds, he frightened the Indians
with curses and threats in such a manner, that they

G 4. would




128 THE FOURTH VOYAGE

would fly from him with the utmost consternation 3
and his condition being known, the admiral ordered
him to be carried into an house, and attended
by the surgeon, who during the first eight days,
discovered some new wounds at every dressing, and
yet the man recovered and did well.

All dissensions among the Spaniards being thus
removed, the Indians grew more cautious of giving
offence, and carefully supplied them with provision ;
and a year being elapsed since the Christians were
wrecked upon the island, the (hip we have already
mentioned, which Mendez bought with the ad
miracles money at St. Domingo, arrived in Jamaica,
and Columbus with his whole company,
embarking on the 28th of June, set sail for Hispaniola,
tho the wind and current were contrary,
and, after a troublesome voyage, reached St. Domingo
on the 13th of Disgust 1504. Here he was
received with demonstrations of uncommon civility
and regard by the governour, who lodged him
in his own house, and fawned upon him with the
most abject submissions ; tho this hospitality was
altogether affectation ; for, he set Porras at liberty,
and threatened to punish those who were concerned
in apprehending that rebel. When the admiral's ship
was refitted, and another hired for the convenience
of his friends and followers, he sailed for Europe
on the 2d of September, and before he was two
leagues at sea, the malt of the hired vessel coming
by the board, he sent her back into the harbour to
be repaired, while he himself proceeded on his
voyage to Spain.—During the passage, he lost: his
own main-mast in a storm, and this damage being
in some measure repaired by the skill and activity
of the lieutenant, (for the admiral w 7 as lame of the
gout) they were afterwards exposed to another
tempest which carried away their foremast, and in
that condition the flip arrived at the port of St.

Lucar


OF COLUMBUS. 129

Lucar de Barrameda. Upon his landing, he was
informed of the death of his generous patroness.
queen Isabella, which overwhelmed him with concern
; for, tho he was courteously received by
Ferdinand, that prince began to think the advantages
he had stipulated for himself were too confiderable,
and accordingly he proposed new terms,
which, however, did not take effects: for, the negotiation
was interrupted by the accession of king
Philip to the throne of Castile; and before Ferdinand
returned to Valladolid, from whence he had
set out to meet his son in law, Columbus, oppressed
with infirmities and chagrin, yielded up the ghost
in that city. His body was afterwards, by the king's
order, conveyed to Sevil; where it was magnificently
interred in the cathedral, and the place distinguished
by a monument, on which these words-were
inscribed:

A Castilian, y a Leon,

Nuevo mundo dio Colon,

Signifying 5
To Castile and Leon,

Columbus gave a new world.


G 5 The


j




The Voyage of Vasco de Gama.

T HIS relation is extracted from the history of
Oforio, bishop of Selves ; an author of such
credit, that his name alone is sufficient to authenticate
every particular.

In the reign of Henry son of John I. King of
Portugal, who was a prince of an asp : ring genius,
and a great patron of navigation, many discoveries
were made by his subjects, and under his auspices,
on the southern coast of Africa, great part of which,
together with some islands, fell under his dominion.
His nephew Alphonse, dio (succeeded him on the
throne, was too much involved in wars, to execute
the schemes he had laid for extending his progress
by sea; but the son of this prince, known by the
name of John II. spared no pains or expence in
promoting the interests of navigation.

Being informed by an ambassador from the king
of Benin on the coast of Africa, that, at'the distance
of one hundred and fifty leagues from his country,
there was a mighty prince to whom his master was
tributary ; and supposing this monarch to be no
other than the famous Prester John, so much talked
of at that period of time, he i’ent Peter de Covillam
and Alonzo de Paiva by land, to obtain some intelligence
of this potentate, as well as of the situation
of India. Accordingly they, travelled by the
way of Grand Cairo to 1 or on the coast of Arabia,
from whence Covillam embarked for India, and
Paiva set out for Ethiopia, after they had agreed to
meet at a ev-tain time at Grand Cairo. The haft
having visited Cananor, Calicut and Goa, touched

at


/



S tr. of Gifar||y=gr *2

^a R&Js L oFev 'y.
C CantutmT^ '*'


N Vamose


9 arneri


Jbrinv
'engota^
uf^xb i a


Santa o


jMkndm


j- A puQ


^ikbxitua


toSecrur°


%rin*df*ik-


P.deUheos

Cdas'fiblta


dos^tguillcs


Told.









3 °

G-C^ s





\ r *



ri't- ^

Stands
.Scdvtxdor

Santos


<20


9 °j

xJ'^effenfd ^aufi






































































































































































THE VOYAGE OF, &c. 131

at Zofala in Africa, from whence he proceeded to
Aden at the mouth of the red sea, on his return to
Cairo, where understanding his companion was
dead, he sent an account to the king of his peregrinations
by a Jew bound for Portugal, and with
another embarked for Ormuz, from whence he
went over into ethiopia, where he was hospitably
entertained, tho never suffered to return.

At the same time when these missionaries departed
by land, king John sent to sea three ships,
under the command of Bartholomew Dial, who
failing one hundred and twenty leagues beyond the
farthest discovered part of Africa, descried the
mountains which he called Sierra Parma, passed by
the bay de los Vagueros, thus denominated from
the numerous herds of cattle which he saw on shore,
touched at the small island of Santa Cruz, entered
the river dei Infanta, and finally reached the cape
which he called Tormentor or Stormy ; tho the
king changed that appellation into Buena Efperanza
or Good Hope, because from hence he hoped to
discover the East-Indies. But, before this hope
could be realized, he quitted this life, after having
exhorted Emmanuel, his successor, to encourage
trade and finish his plan of navigation ; nor vas
this advice neglected. Emmanuel, who was a
prince of uncommon spirit, liberality and discretion,
had no sooner fettled the domestic affairs of his kingdom,
than he ordered four ships to be equipped for
the discovery, and gave the command o of them to
Vasco de Gama, a nobleman of great abilities, on
whom he likewise conferred the rank of admiral:
the other three ships were commanded by Vafeo’s
brother Paul, Nicholas Coeli and Gcnzalo Nugnez;
They spent the night preceding their embarkation
in prayers and vows, at a chapel which Emmanuel
built by the sea-fide within four miles of Lisbon,
and they were next day followed to the shore by




I 3 2 the voyage of

an infinite multitude of people, who, with loud acclamation,
preferred vows to Heaven for their prosperity
and success, tho many looked upon them
with companion, as sacrifices devoted to destruction.


Gama, however, and his captains went on board
with great confidence and alacrity, and sailed on the
9th day of July in the year 1497, directing his
course to the Canary islands, from whence he flood
for the island of St. Jago; he was afterwards harassed
by continual storms for the space of three
months, and at length discovering land, came to an
anchor in a large bay, where he hoped to obtain a
supply of fresh water, of which the (hips were in
great want. Accordingly Cselo, who was sent to
examine, found a pleasant river, the banks of
which were covered with the most beautiful verdure,
and thither the ships advanced in order to lay
in a flock of wood and water. Here they saw vast
numbers of teals ; and the admiral being desirous of
knowing the nature of the place, and the manners
of the inhabitants, directed his people to catch
feme of the natives, whom he found to be real
negroes by their black colour, thick lips and fleecy
hair; but, they were altogether unintelligible,
altho fonte of the Portuguese on board were acquainted
with aloft all the languages used on the
coast of Guinea.

They were received with great civility by Gama,,
who presented them with some cloaths, small bells,,
glades, beads and other trifles, with which they
were extremely well pleased, and in return, supplied
their benefactors with plenty of such provisions
as the country afforded : but this friendly intercourse
was not of long duration. One of theory
having gone ashore to visit the natives at
their oven houses, was welcomed with great hospitality,
and for his entertainment they killed a fatted


VASCO DE GAMA, 133

feal, a dish that discomposed his delicate stomach so
much, that he rose and retired with signs of nothing
and disgust. Nor did his entertainers oppose
his departure; on the contrary, they accompanied
him to the shore: but he, distrusting their intention,
no sooner came within hearing of his fellows,
than he roared aloud for help, when feme of the
men coming immediately ashore to his assistance,
the natives ran affrighted to the woods ; and now
looking upon the Portuguese as declared enemies,
had recourse to their arms consisting of long lances
headed with horn, which they throw with great
dexterity and execution. With these weapons,
they suddenly rushed out of the woods upon Gama
and some officers who were employed in taking the
suns altitude, and attacked them with such fury,
that they were obliged to retreat on board of their
ships, after the admiral had been wounded in the
foot. In consequence of this rupture, he set sail
from that place, having given the name of St.
helena to the bay, and that of St, Jago to the river,
because they were discovered on the days dedicated
to these saints : a rule which they afterwards
observed in all their denominations. Between this
bay and the cape, he underwent such dreadful
forms, the weather was so cold and the nights so
long, that the people became dispirited and clamorous,
surrounding Gama upon deck, and conjuring
him with, the most pathetic remonstrances, to
change his course and fleer homewards, rather than
persist in prosecuting a voyage from which nothing
was to be expected but misery and destruction 0
Upon this occasion, all his resolution and address
was necessary to refute their fears, to withstand
their importunities, and maintain his authority : for,
when they found him deaf to their entreaties, and
firmly determined to answer the purpose for which
he had embarked, they formed a conspiracy against

whig





134 THE VOYAGE OF

his life, which being discovered by his brother
Paul, he was obliged to exert his whole vigilance
and caution to hinder it from taking effect. The
ringleaders were put in irons, and among these all
the pilots, so that he himself and some other officers
were fain to perform their functions. At length,
the weather took a favourable turn, and he made
the Cape of Good Hope, which was doubled on the
20th day of November, to the inexpressible joy of
the whole company, who thought there was now
no obstacle to oppose the voyage. Coasting along
shore, they enjoyed the prospect of a most agreeable
country, diversified with wood and lawn,
abounding with numerous herds of cattle, and well
peopled with blacks, who resembled those of St.
Helena bay in colour, features and proportion:
when they spoke they seemed to fob; their privities
were inclosed in small wooden cases, the rest of the
body being quite naked ; they played upon pipes,
with which they made no contemptible musick,
and lived in huts made of clay hardened in the fun,
which were covered with straw and clods of earth.

Gama having run seventy three leagues to the
northward of the Cape, found another bay, which
he called Angra de San Bias, in the bend of which
was a small island, where the ships lay to take in a
supply of water. The land hereabouts was very
fertile, abounding with large elephants and fine oxen,
which the natives use as horses. There was
also a prodigious number of seals of surprising
fierceness, and a multitude of birds called penguins,
about the size of geese, which have no feathers, nor
do their wings, which are membranous, enable
them to fly.

The fleet being watered in this place, set sail
again, and, on the 8th day of December, was overtaken
by a sudden storm that drove the ships out to
sea, and overwhelmed the people with consternation

5


VASCO DEGAMA. 135

'sion ; but when the tempest subsided, they approached
the shore again, Gama being resolved to
sail along the coast, as he was altogether unacquainted
with the navigation of those Teas, On
the 10th of January, when they had proceeded
about two hundred and thirty miles from their lad
watering place, they descried some small islands, that
appeared extremely pleasant, decorated with lofty
trees, and intervening meadows of a beautiful
verdure, in which they saw great numbers of cattle
grazing : they likewise perceived the black inhabitants
walking upon the shore. The admiral, having
anchored upon the coast, sent one of his men who
was well versed in languages, to pay his respects to
the king, who received him with great civility,
and dismissed him with presents such as the country
produced. These people were more civilized
than the other blacks they had seen ; they wore
bracelets on their arms, brazen helmets on their
heads, and sabres by their sides, with handles of
tin, and scabbards of ivory, not inelegantly fashioned.
In the fleet were ten malefactors who had
been condemned to death, but pardoned on condition
they would undertake this .voyage; two of
these Gama left on shore, at his departure from this
place, to which he gave the name of St. Raphael,
that they might inform themselves of the nature
and customs of the country, so as to be able to
give useful intelligence to the Portuguese when the
ships should return.

On the 15th of January, they arrived at the
mouth of a very large river, the banks of which
were covered with verdure, and shaded by trees
loaded with fruit. Gama-came to an anchor in
this place in the evening, and in the morning the
natives came on board in little boats, without fear
or hesitation-and were treated with great civility,
tho the Portuguese could not underhand their

language a





136 THE VOYAGE OF

language. In a few days, four of their chiefs came
to pay their respects to the admiral, who entertained
them sumptuously, and at their departure, presented
them with cloaths of silk, which they received
with transports of joy. One of these, who spoke
the Arabic tongue very imperfectly, said he had
lately come from a country not very distant, where
he had seen (hips like those belonging to the Portus
guess; a piece of information which greatly elevated
the spirits of the sailors, who hoped in a little
time to reach the treasures of India. On the banks
of this river, which he called de Bon Sinyas or of
good signs, Gama erected a Hone pillar, on which
was carved a crucifix above the arms of Emmanuel;
for, he had brought from Lisbon several columns of
the same kind, to be left as monuments of the Portuguese
discoveries.

Having repaired his flip and refreshed his men,
he on the 24th day of February set sail again, and
on the iH of March descried four islands lying at
small distances from one another ; and from one of
these came seven vessels, in full sail, towards the ad *
miracles ship, which was distinguished by the Hag.
When the people on board of them thought they
were near enough to be heard, they set up a shout,
and hailed the Portuguese in the Arabic language |
and when they approached Hill nearer, they began
to play upon flutes and other musical instruments,
and with loud huzzahs congratulated the admiral on
his arrival in these parts. They were of a dusky
hue, but well made, and elegantly dressed in silk,
their heads being covered with turbans of fine linen
interwoven with gold ; and they worefaulchions
at their Tides, and targets upon their arms. They
were received on board by those Portuguese who
understood their language, and the admiral ordered
them to be treated with a collation ; during which,
he desired to know the name of this island, together

with-vasco


DE GAMA. 137

with the manners and customs of the inhabitants,
as well as the exact distance from India, To these
interrogations, they replied, that the island was
called Mozambique, subject to the king of Quiloa,
and ruled by a governour appointed by that prince*
Great part of it (they said) was inhabited by Arabian
merchants, who carried on a confiderable
commerce by sea to Arabia, India, and other parts
of the world; they gave him to understand that he
had already palled by the country of Zofala, abounding
with gold ; and lastly satisfied him with respects
the distance from Mozambique to Calicut: so
that the people with uplifted hands, returned
thanks to Heaven, concluding that now their labours
were almost at a period.

Mozambique is situated in that part of Africa
formerly known by the name of Agefimba, in sixteen
degrees of southern latitude ; a country rendered
unwholesome by the redundancy of its marshes,
and inhabited by blacks, who live in huts made of
clay and thatched with straw. Yet here, for the
convenience of traffick, was a great resort of ships
from all quarters; tho at this time, the wealth and
power of the island was chiefly engrossed by the
Arabians, who used small gallies fastened with
wooden pegs instead of nails, and caulked with
ropes of palm leaves. This tree, which rises to a
great height, is covered with long prickly leaves,
its spreading boughs project an agreeable shade, and
produce nuts of a large size called cocos.

1 hesse Arabians knew the use of the compass,
had very accurate sea-charts, were furnished with
quadrants and other astronomical instruments, and
in a word, very little inferior to the Portuguese in
their knowledge of navigation. They conversed
familiarly and jocosely with the sailors, whom they
supposed to be Mahometan from Barbary, and after
having received marks of the admiral's generous


THE VOYAGE OF

city, they were entrusted with some presents of
greater value for the governor, whose name was
Acacia This man was so well pleased with Ga
mans politeness, that he resolved to visit him onboard,
and immediately sent notice of his intention ;
so that the admiral had time to remove the Tick out
of sight, and arm the people for his reception.
He appeared in rich embroidered cloaths, wearing
a curious sword set with diamonds, and attended by
a number of armed men, with drums and trumpets
sounding as he advanced. After the ceremony of
salutation, he and his followers were elegantly entertained
by Gama, with whom he foci ally conversed,
and among other questions, asked whether
they were Turks or Moors, what kind of warlike
arms they used, and desired to know if he had any
books concerning the Mahometan religion; the
admiral said he came from the wed:, that besides
the weapons with which he saw his people armed,
they had engines of such amazing power, as not
only to destroy whole armies of men, but even to
iChake and overturn the strongest citadels; he like-wife
told him that he was bound for India, and begged
he would supply him with pilots in whom he
could confide.

This request was chearfully granted by Acacia,
who returned next day with two pilots, and they, fora
certain sum of money, undertook to conduct the
ships to Calicut: in a word, there was a mutual
exchanges good offices between the Portuguese
and these islanders. But this harmony was not of
long continuance; for, the governor no sooner
discovered the new comers to be Christians, than all
his friendship was converted into rancour, and he
began to lay schemes for Amans destruction. The
Portuguese were reviled and insulted by the populace
; the admiral's life was endangered by a plot,
which Was happily discovered; one of the pilots

made


VASCO D E GAM A. 139

made his escape, and Tome of the people, who were
sent on shore to wood and water, being attacked by
seven vessels, would have lost their lives, had not
the other boats come to their assistance, and poured
in a volley of shot among the aggressors, who fled
in the utmost consternation.

The admiral finding he could stay here no longer
with safety, steered to another island at the distance
of four miles, from whence he set sail for Quiloa 5
but being driven back by contrary winds and tempestuous
weather, he was sollicited by an Arabian,
who begged to be taken on board with his little son,
and see on shore at some convenient port, from
whence he might repair to Mecca, which was the
place; of his nativity. Gama was glad of an opportunity
to indulge this persons, who he understood
was an excellent pilot, and his brother Paul having,
in the fcufHe at Mozambique, carried off another
man well (killed in navigation, the weather
no sooner became favourable, than they went to sea
again in three ships, for, the store-ship had been
emptied and destroyed by the admiral's order.
Their intention was to make Quiloa, which however,
they could not reach 5 a disappointment owing
to some error in their course, or perhaps to the
fraud of the Mozambique pilot, who now advised
Gama to fleer for Mombaze, a city which, he said,
was chiefly inhabited by Christians, and in all respects
well adapted for the reception of his (hips,
and the refreshment of the men. The admiral .
was accordingly persuaded to follow this advice ;
for, his provisions began to sail, a great number of
his men were already dead, and the survivors in a
sickly and lingering condition.

Mombaze is situated in a bay upon an high rock,
almost surrounded by the sea, the harbour being defended
by a fortress furnished with all manner of
warlike stores, and a strong garrison 3 the soil is

fertile.



Ho THE VOYAGE OF

fertile, abounding with all sorts of fruits and vegetables
; the country is well flocked with cattle,
the water is excellent, the climate temperate, the
air healthy ; and the inhabitants live with taste, in
houses built after the European manner, and adorned
with variety of fine painting.

Scarce had the Portuguese anchored, when they
perceived a galley rowing towards the flag (hip, and
in her observed about one hundred men in Turkish
habits, armed with bucklers and fcymetars. They
would have come on board without hesitation, had
not they been prevented by order of the admiral,
who denied admission to any but four, who
by their appearance seemed to be above the common
rank, and even these were obliged to lay aside
their arms, before he would suffer them to mount
the ships side. This caution of Gama they extolled
with many encomiums, and told him that
their king having been informed of his arrival, had
sent them with compliments of congratulation, and
proffers of alliance, which the admiral said he
would embrace with pleasure : next day, other deputies
came with a supply of refreshments for the
men, which his majesty sent as a small token of his
friendship and regard, desiring, at the same time,
that he would approach the city and come to an
anchor in the harbour, where he could more conveniently
give the Portuguese fresh proofs of his
good will. Gama, with all suitable acknowledgment,
promised to comply with his request, and in
the mean time, as a mark of his confidence, sent on
shore two of his exiles, who were treated with the
utmost hospitality by the king, who ordered same
of his people to accompany them while they should
take a view of the city, and then desired them to
carry a sample of spices to Gama, by which he
might be induced to trade with his subjects, rather

than


than proceed farther, and run the risque of a dangerous
voyage.

The admiral, being overjoyed at their report, immediately
ordered the anchors to be weighed, in
order to advance into the harbour; but his own
ship being by the violence of the tide in danger of
running a-ground, he commanded the sails to be
furled, and the anchors to be dropped; and the other
captains followed his example. The Mozambique
pilots seeing these orders executed, without knowing
the reason, and being conscious of their own
treachery, which they now imagined he had discovered,
threw themselves into the sea, and were
taken up by the people of some boats, who landed
them on the opposite snore, notwithstanding the
remonstrances of Gama, who called aloud to them,
desiring them to bring the fugitives on board. By
this providential occurrence, he discovered the perfidious
design of the king, whose assessed civility
was no other than dissimulation ; for, having heard
of what palled at Mozambique, he had laid a
scheme for destroying the Portuguese in the harbour :
but his project being thus accidentally baffled, he at
midnight sent a detachment of men, small vessels,
to cut the cables, which however were preserved by
the vigilance and activity of the admiral, who, as
soon as he could get clear of the bay,diredfed discourse
for Melinda. In his passage he took an Arabian
ship, which he dismissed, after having detained fourteen
prisoners, and among these a person of distinction,
from whom he received some useful instructions
concerning his voyage. On Easter-day
he arrived at Melinda, which Hands in a delightful
plain, surrounded with pleasant gardens, Hocked
with a variety of trees, and in particular the orange,
whose blossoms yielded a moi agreeable and diffusive
odour. The country was rich and plentiful,
abounding not only with tame cattle, but also with

game


jt 4 2 the voyage of

game of all kinds, which the natives took pleasure
in hunting. The houses are built of square stones,
in a magnificent taste. The inhabitants, tho of a
black colour, are not inelegant in their dress ; their
heads are adorned with turbans, the body is naked
to the waist, from which a garment of silk descends
to the middle of the leg: their arms consist of small
bucklers, fcymetars, spears, with bows and arrows;
they are extremely fond of military glory. Their
religion is Paganism, and they worship their images
with great superstition.

Gama understanding the coast was shelly, and
the sea tempestuous, and being warned by the danger
he had so narrowly escaped at Mombaze, came
to an anchor at a good distance from the city,
when his Arabian prisoner, perceiving his caution,
offered to go and found the sentiments of the king ;
and at the same time told him, that there were four
ships then in the harbour, commanded by Christians,
who having already transacted their business at
Melinda, would in a little time set out for India,
whither Gama might have the benefit of their company.


Altho the admiral did not repose much confidence
in the sincerity of this prisoner, yet, as the advice
could followed without running any risque,
he ordered him to be landed on an island opposite
to the city, to which he was immediately trans
ported and conduced to the king, who was an old
man, of a mild and gentle disposition, and so much
pleased with the ,character which the Arabian gave
of the Portuguese, that he forthwith sent a person
with his compliments to Gama, and a present of
sleep and other refreshments. The admiral, unwilling
to be outdone in generosity, repaid this
courtesy with presents of greater value, ordered his
ships to move nearer to the shore, and sent an invitation
to the Christians of India, who were transported



VASCO DE GAMA.





ported with joy at sight of Grangers who professed
the same faith, and gave him many useful instructions
with regard to the prosecution of his voyage.

The king being disabled by the infirmities of age
from visiting the admiral in person, sent on board
his son, to whom he had delegated the supreme authority
; and this young prince, royally attired, and
attended by his nobles, came in a galley that resounded
with the musick of drums and trumpets. Gama,
that he might pay the greater honour to his
guest, went in his barge to receive him, and at
meeting he was embraced by the young prince with
great familiarity and affection. He behaved on this
occasion with uncommon politeness; his convention
was sensible and sprightly 5 he looked upon the
admiral with marks of pleasure and admiration, examined
the ships attentively, and expressed the ut
mod friendship and regard for the Portuguese : and
this good disposition was improved by the generosity
of Gama, who made him a present of all the prisoners
he had taken. But this cautious officer declined
his pressing invitation to go ashore, altho s
he offered to leave his own fons as pledges of his
safety. However, he next day ordered himself
to be rowed in his barge nearer the city, that he
might enjoy a more distends prospect of its beautiful
situation ; and received another visit from the prince,
who furnished him with an able pilot, and obtained
his promise, that on his return he would take
Melinda in his way, as the king expressed an eager
desire of sending an ambassador to his Portuguese
majesty, with whom he was very ambitious of engaging
in the mod friendly alliance and intercourse.

On the 22d day of March he set sail, and fleering
to the northward, they in a few days passed the
line ; then slanting to the raff, and crossing a broad
sea, the pilot descried the mountains of Calicut a
discovery which was no sooner imparted to the admiral





i 4 4 THE VOYAGE OF

moral, than he returned thanks to heaven in a transport
of joy, and unfettered all the prisoners, that
there might not be one Sorrowful heart on board.
That Same day, the Ships, dropping anchor within
two miles of Calicut, were Surrounded by a number
of canoes full of Indians, who came to gratify their
curiosity. Of these Gama inquired by his interpreters,
in what place their king resided; and one of
the exiles being Sent on Shore to obtain intelligence,
was environed by a vaSt multitude, who thronged
about him in Such a manner, that he was lifted from
the ground, and borne backwards and forwards like
a wave of the Sea, until he was at length perceived
by two merchants from the city of Tunis in Barbary,
who were net a little astonished to See an
European in that place; and one of them, whose
name was Monzaida, supposing him by his dress
to be a Spaniard, accosted him in Castilian: but,
when he understood the danger was a Portuguese,
he expressed great joy ; for he had been chief contractor
for the warlike cores which King Ferdinand
had purchased at 'Funis : he therefore desired the
exile to introduce him to the admiral, and they
came on board together. Here he was kindly received
by Gama, who, finding him a very intelligent
person, took this opportunity to inform himself
of many interesting particulars touching the affairs
of Calicut; and the Moor, after having made
a tender of his Service to the Portuguese, gave him
to understand, that his arrival would be very agreeable
to the king or Comorin, whose chief care and
aim was to extend the commerce of his subjects :
for altho his dominions were extensive, and many
princes his tributaries, yet the mod considerable part
of his revenue arose from duties upon merchandize.
Next day, Gama Sent two of his officers with Mon
zaida to wait upon this monarch, whose residence
at that time was at Pandarene, three miles from

Calicut.


page, 144













































































y






./














VASCO D E GAMA; i 4S

Calicut. These deputies being admitted to his presence,
told him, that the King of Portugal having
heard of his fame and dignity, had sent thither one
of his admirals, who would be glad to attend his
Majesty, with proffers of friendship and alliance in
the name of his master. To this address, the king
made a mod gracious reply, alluring them that he
would chearfully engage in a league with the king
of Portugal, and for that purpose take the first convenient
opportunity of conferring with the admiral,
whom in the mean time he advised to bring the
ships nearer to Pandarene, that they might be the
less exposed to the tempests, which were frequent
at that season of the year; and he accordingly sent
a person to pilot the ships into a safer riding.

In a few days, one of their chief magistrates,
whom they call casual, being sent by the comorin
to conduct Gama to the palace, the admiral gave
the command of the ships to his brother Paul, with
whom, and Nicholas Ccelo, he left directions, importing,
that in case he should meet with any accident
on shore, they should give themselves no
concern about his safety, but sail directly homewards
with an account of the discoveries they had
made; and that they might not be destitute of hands
to navigate the vessels, he chose only twelve men
to attend him in his visit. When landed, he was
put into a sedan-chair by order of the casual, who
was carried in another by his side, while a number
of their nobles, called nares, and all the rest of
the company walked on foot to the city; where having
dined, they went on board of canoes, and sailed
down the river to a place where they found a
great number of men and sedans waiting for their
convenience. Thence Gama and his attendants
were conduced by the casual into a magnificent
temple, at the entrance of which they were met by
four men naked from the head to the middle, from
Vol. I. H whence






146 THE VOYAGE OF

whence to the knees they were covered with a kind
of silken robe; over the shoulder of each were three
firings tied under the left arm. They sprinkled a
sort of holy water, and prefer ted to every individual
of the company a powder of a sweet-scented
wood, with which they made the sign of the cross
on their foreheads. The walls of the ternate were
adorned with curious painting, and in the middle
was a little round chapel, with a very small door
made of brass, to which they ascended by steps.
By the wall opposite to this entrance flood an image,
which could not be distinctly viewed, because the
place was dark, and admittance was denied to everybody
except the pi iefls, who approaching and pointing
at the figure, called aloud Maria, Maria: then
the casual and his attendants prostrated themselves,
and worshipped with great devotion; and the Portuguese,
imagining they invoked the mother of jesus,
adored the blessed Virgin in the manner of
their own country.

Having quitted this temple, they entered another
of equal magnificence, from which they walked in
procession towards the palace, through infinite
crowds of people, which pressed upon them in such
a manner, that the nobles were obliged to clear the
way with their drawn swords. At the palace gate
they were received by several grandees, whom they
call crimes, and-when they approached the audience
chamber, they were met by an elderly man,
clothed in a silken garment that reached from his
shoulders to his heels, who embraced Gama in the
inofl friendly manner. This venerable person, w ? ho,
was mailer of the brains, conduced the admiral
into a spacious hall, accommodated with several
rows of seats rising one above another, in the manner
of an amphitheatre : the floor was covered with
rich carpets, and the walls hung with fisk tapestry,
curiously interwoven with gold. The king lay rec
dined



£/c>C?a/7i0rpn


rtJCO
























































I



VASCO DE GAMA. 147

dined on a magnificent sofa: he was crested in a
silken garment fattened with golden clasps ; on his
head was a mitre adorned with jewels; his fingers
sparkled with precious stones: his person was graceful,
and his deportment noble and majestic.

Gama, having done obeisance in the Portuguese .
manner, was very graciously received, and placed
on a seat just by him, while his attendants were
likewise desired to sit down ; and in this order they
were treated with a collation, after which the comorin
expressed an inclination to know the particulars
of the embassy. To this hint the admiral replied,
that the cuPcom of his country would not permit
him to communicate his instructions in a public
assembly : upon which the king ordered him to
be conduced into another apartment, whither he
himself immediately repaired in person, together
with the matter of the brains, and some of the
chief nobility. Here Gama, in a studied speech,
gave him to understand, that Emmanuel, a prince
of great dignity, curiosity, and an aspiring soul,
having heard of the same of India, and in particular
of the Calicut empire, was extremely felicitous
to enter into a league of friendship with such a renowned
monarch, for the accomplishment of which,
he (Gama) was sent to that country ; and he did
not doubt that such an alliance would greatly tend
to the mutual advantage of both princes: and in
confirmation of the truth of what he advanced, he
said he would produce the letters of his king at the
next audience. The comorin answered in few
words, that nothing could be more agreeable to him
than such an alliance; and then ordered the catuai
to attend the admiral to the apartment which was
appointed for his residence, while others w T ere directed
to provide for the accommodation of his attendants.


H 2


Calicut,



i 4 8 THE VOYAGE OF

Calicut, which is on the coast of Malabar, was
at that time the most celebrated mart in India,
abounding with all sorts of merchandise, partly
its own produce, and partly imported from other
countries. The people are bigotted pagans, have
a great number of temples, and pay implicit faith to
their priests or brains, in divine as well as human
affairs. The king is always instructed in the mysteries
of their religion by these doctors ; whose persons
are accounted so sacred, that even in time of
war they have free communication with all parties,
and it would be deemed the greatest impiety to offer
them the least violence. T he three firings which
they wear over their right shoulder is a symbol of
the trinity; and they believe that God came upon
earth in human form for the redemption of mankind
; doctrines which in all probability they learned
from christian travellers. They study mathematic
ks and philosophy ; but their religion is nothing
elfe but the vi 1 eff dissimulation, under the cloak
of which, they are guilty of the most fraudulent
practices. They are great observers of prodigies
and omens, and keep a grand festival on the midday
of October, when not only the boys, but even
men of advanced age, march out and skirmish with
one another, in such a manner, that many die of
the wounds they receive, and such a death is greatly
coveted as the immediate conveyance to everlasting
happiness. They have likewise other holidays,
on which some devotees are always ready to
sacrifice their lives in public. Their year begins
in the month of September, after the day and hour
have been fixed upon as auspicious by their augurs
and astrologers. The nobility are prohibited from
marrying, left a family should render them remiss,
and detach them from the seats of war: nevertheless
they may keep mistresses, provided they be of the
same rank with themselves 3 for it is unlawful to

lie


VASCO DE GAMA, 14.9

lie with their inferiors; and when a nobleman is
convicted of this crime, he is cut in pieces by his
peers. Women of quality may indulge themselves
with any number of gallants under the same reductions
and jealousy is utterly unknown. A noble
mans son does not inherit, because this promiscuous
commerce renders it uncertain who is the father;
he therefore adopts his sitters son, who is educated
at the king's expence, and inured betimes to danger
and fatigue ; yet they are not permitted to use
their arms in the field of battle, until the king has
distinguished them by some military honour : but,
as they are furnished with proper makers to intrude
them in their exercises, they are surprizingly expert
in the use of their arms, confiding of bows and arrows,
javelins and scimitar. Their pride soars to
such a degree of haughtiness and absurdity, that they
think their blood is tainted even by the accidental
touch of a commoner, and that nothing can wash
out the cain but the blood of the offender; for
which reason, the common people in the greets are
obliged to call aloud and proclaim their condition,
in order to avoid such a dangerous encounter. Nobility
cannot be forfeited by the fouled crime, nor
can a person of mean birth acquire it by the mod
illustrious adliom. The lower class of people mud
marry with those only of their own profession; and
no man is permitted to follow any other business
but that by which his father earned his livelihood.
Indeed of paper, they use the leaves of a certain
tree, upon which all their memorable events are
recorded, with a dale or sharp pointed pen ; and
these leaves being cut into regular forms, are tied
up compactly between two pieces of polished
wood.

Calicut is situated in the middle of the Malabar
coat, at a little distance from the sea, and fills up
a large extent of ground ; not that the inhabitants

H 3 are


150 THE VOYAGE OF

are very numerous, but because the houses are detached
from one another, and fur rounded by gardens
: yet they are but meanly built, and make a
poor figure, tho they serve as a contrast to the
palace, which is the only stone edifice in the place,
and has a very magnificent appearance. As for the
soil, it is extremely fertile, and abounds with all
the necessaries, and even conveniences of life.

Gama, having reposed himself three days, had a
second audience of the comorin, to whom he delivered
the letter and presents he had brought from
Emmanuel: the first was received with great respects;
but the admiral perceiving the king looked
at the presents with contempt, told his majesty, that
he ought net to be surprised if they did not seem
suitable to his dignity, for Emmanuel could not
foresee the success of the voyage ; and, after all, he
could not have brought a more valuable present
than the friendship of his royal maiden, who was
desirous of establishing a trade, which would greatly
redound to the advantage of Calicut. Le likewise,
after Monzaida had explained the letter, desired his
majesty would not communicate the contents to the
Arabians, who, he understood from the moor, were
his professed enemies; and the comorin dismissed
him with a friendly caution, to beware of these perfidious
men. Nor was this advice unnecessary or
unreasonable; for those merchants, partly through
pique to the Christian name, and partly from the
prospect of seeing their trade and profits diminished
by the interloping Portuguese, spared no pains to
render them odious and suspected. After having
prepossessed the ministry, by dipt of bribes, they represented
Gama as a bloody pirate, who had behaved
in an outrageous manner in every place at which
he had touched in the prosecution of his voyage, and
was come to Calicut in order to carry on his hosts e
intentions, under the cloak of a treaty, which was

no


VASCO DE GAMA: 151

no other than a meer pretence. By these means
they secured the interest of the catual,- who filled
the ears of his prince with false insinuations to the
prejudice of the Grangers, and at length obtained an
audience for the Arabians, who went to the palace
in a body, and, by the mouth of an orator, made a
very vehement and artful remonstrance, importing,
that the Portuguese were a cruel and perfidious
people, inflamed with avarice and ambition; that
they had, without! the least provocation, ravaged
the whole coast of Africa, and made themselves
masters of a great part of ethiopia; that Gama
himself had fallen upon Mozambique, made great
daughter at Mombaze, and taken several ships like
a professed pirate; that the cargo he had brought
was poor and inconsiderable, and the presents such
as rather denoted the contempt than the regard of
the fender: that therefore his interest could never
prompt him to prefer such beggarly strangers, and
they too of suspected morals, to his antient friends
the Arabians, who had given such repeated proofs
of their fidelity, and from whose commerce tbs
greatest: part of his revenue vas derived : and, lastly,
that if, notwithstanding these representations,
he was resolved to encourage the Portuguese., they
for their parts would immediately withdraw them
selves into other countries where they could settle
to more advantage.

This declaration, supported by the Hander and
advice of the .casual, made an impression upon the
mind of the comorin, who was naturally fickle and
irresolute; and Gama, being apprised of a design
against his life, resolved to return to his ships withall
possible expedition. For this purpose he retired
before break of day, but was overtaken at Pandarene
by the casual, who, tho stili under the mask
of friendship, told him, that before the king could
grant his request, it would be necessary for him to rei

4 turn.


152 THE VOYAGE OF

turn, and acquit himself of some imputations touching
the design of his voyage, and in the mean time
to bring the ships nearer the shore, and deliver up
their sails and rudders as pledges of his fidelity.
Gama replied with great spirit, that he would sooner
forfeit his life than act so much beneath the dignity
of his character; and sent a letter to his brother,
repeating his injunctions to sail homewards,
provided he should be detained. Two days being
spent in fruitless altercation, it was at length
agreed, that the Portuguese goods should be landed,
with some men to take charge of the warehouse,
and then Gama was allowed to go on board of his
flip, from whence he wrote a letter, complaining
of the catuaFs treachery; and the comorin promised
to inquire into his conduct, and, if he should be
found guilty, to punish him according to his demerits.
Mean while, he advised the admiral to send
his goods to Calicut, where they might be sold to
great advantage; gnd, in consequence of this advice,
they were conveyed to that city at the king's
expence. The ships were moved nearer the city,
and several Portuguese allowed to go on shore everyday,
in order to view the country, and make observations
on the temper and genius of the inhabitants.
Gama took all possible methods to promote
peace and amity ; and, by another letter to
the comorin, proposed that a person should be left
at Calicut to transact the affairs of his Portuguese
majesty. To this message, which in all probability
alarmed those Indians, he received such a surly
and insolent answer, that he resolved to break off
all manner of correspondence with a prince of such
levity; and this neglects incensed him to such a degree,
that he ordered the goods to be seized, and
the two Portuguese factors to be thrown in prison.
Gama, having in vain demanded reparation for this
outrage, resolved to make reprisals by force of arms;






VASCO DE GAMA. 153

and, attacking the first ship that flood into the harbour,
made prisoners of six nares, or noblemen,
with nineteen servants; then ordered his own vessels
to set sail, in hope that the king would be alarmed
at his Teeming departure, and restore the goods and
men in exchange for the captives. The scheme
succeeded to his wish ; for no sooner were his ships
perceived to be under sail, than the comorin lent a
dispatch on board of Gama, to tell him, he was
surprised at his having made prisoners those noblemen
who had never given him the leaf! offence ;
and to allure him, upon his honour, that he would
before the goods, and release the two Portuguese,
whom he detained for no other purpose, but that of
carrying the letters which he intended to write to
his brother Emmanuel. Induced by these promises,
the admiral returned to his former station ; and,
next day, the two Portuguese came with letters for
the king, together with an officer, who told h m,
in name of the comorin, that he might leave a
person at Calicut to manage the affairs of Portugal,
and fell the goods which he had not sent on board,
because they might be sold to great advantage. To
this message Gama replied, that he had altered his
resolution with respect to the resident, and that, if
the comorin of Calicut wanted to see his subjects
released, he must send back the goods without delay.
Next morning, Monzaida appeared, before
him in vast perturbation,, and earnestly begged he
might be carried to Portugal, as the friendship he
had manifested for the admiral rendered it impossible
for him to live in safety at Calicut: he laid,
the Arabians had raised great commotions in the
city, and by various calumnies exasperated the za¬
morn against the Portuguese; and that he himself
had escaped with the utmost difficulty. Gama took
this man into his protection, and behaved towards
him with great friendship and generality ; and that

H. 5 fa rue.




154 THE VOYAGE OF

same day received his goods, which were sent in
seven boats: bat by this time he was determined
to carry his prisoners into Portugal; and therefore
told the persons by whom they were re-demanded,
he had been deluded by so many low artifices, that
he looked upon the people to be altogether void of
faith and honour; that all the goods were not restored,
and tho he had not leisure to inquire into
the particulars that were wanting, he would not release
the prisoners, but conduit them to Portugal, as
testimonies to convince Emmanuel of the insults
his admiral and ambassador had suffered from the
comorin of Calicut, at the instigation of the Arabian
merchants. Having made this declaration, he
ordered his cannon to be fired, that he might strike
terror into the hearts of these Calicutians, who immediately
shed in the utmost confirmation.

Tho the king was enraged at this presumptuous
behaviour, he was obliged to stifle his resentment,
because all his ships were laid up at that season of
the year; but as contrary winds detained the Port
tuguefe for same time upon the coast, he fitted out
twenty light ships, which were well furnished with
men and arms, and sent them against Gama. His
hope, however, was baffled by a hidden storm that
scattered his ships ; and the Portuguese, taking the
opportunity of a favourable gale, soon lost sight of
Calicut. Yet the admiral dignified one of the captives
from the nest port at which he touched, with a
letter to the comorin, in which he expatiated upon
the snares which had been laid for his life by the
Arabians : but, notwithstanding these combinations,
lie salt, he frill retained the utmost regard for his
majesty, between whom, and the King of Portugal,
he w r ould labour with all his might to establish such
a league as would redound to their mutual advantage
; and as to the nobles who were his prisoners,
he allured him upon his word and honour, that

they






VASCO DE GAMA, 155

they should be treated with the highest respect, and
sent back to their native country. Having taken
this step, Gama, in his voyage homewards, steered
towards the islands of Anchedive, and in his course
thither was attacked by seven ships, belonging to a
pirate named Simia, a bold intrepid fellow, very
much dreaded in those Teas. However, his vessels
were soon obliged to sheer off; and one of them,
loaded with provisions, was taken by the Portuguese.
At one of the Anchedive islands, which are
five in number, about four miles distant from the
coast, the admiral touched, in order to refit his ships,
which had been (battered by the violence of the
weather ; and among the multitude that crowded
to the shore to view the Grangers, was the prime
minister and confident of Zabaio, king of a neighbouring
island called Goa, an able prince, of great
power, courage, and ambition. This minister
came to Gama, in his masters name, and, having
paid his compliments in the Italian tongue, told the
admiral, that Zabaio, having heard of his fame, was
disposed to do him all the service in his power ; and
if he flood in need of provisions, arms, or money,
he might demand them with the greatest freedom.

Gama was struck with the graceful appearance
of this person, and admired his fluency of language,
as well as the quickness and facility with
which he answered his interrogations. He said, he
was by birth an Italian; that he had been taken by
pyrates in his youth, during a voyage to Greece with
his parents, and, after having undergone a variety
of misfortunes, and seen himself cut oft' from all
hope of revisiting his native country, he had been
obliged to enter into the service of a Mahometan
prince. He, in his turn, asked a number of questions,
that seemed to denote an artful and uncommon
curiosity; so that Gama began to suspect him
of being spy, and was so strongly influenced by

H 6 thei





5 6 THE VOYAGE OF

the conjecture, that he ordered him to be seized
and put to the rack; an expedient which justified
his suspicion : for, by dint of torture, he was fain
to confess, that he was by birth a Pole, and by religion
a Jew; and that Zabaio, having a design to
attack the Portuguese ships, had sent him on purpose
to discover their strength, and manner of fighting.
The admiral, in consequence of this confession, set
sail immediately, detaining the Jew, who afterwards
became a Christian, under the appellation of
Jasper, and was very serviceable to Emmanuel on
many occasions: and the fleet, proceeding on the
voyage homeward?, was becalmed in such a manner,
that a long time elapsed before they reached the
coast of Africa. Magadoxa, which was the first
place they descried, being at that time inhabited by
Arabians, Gama battered the city with his cannon,
and sunk or defrayed all the ships in the harbour :
he was afterwards attacked by eight Arabian ships,
which he defeated, and would have taken, had
there been wind enough to manage his sails ; and
at length arrived in the amicable port of Melinda,
where he again met with a most friendly reception,
and was supplied with refreshments for his men,
who were quite exhausted by sickness and fatigue.
Being afraid of finding difficulty in doubling
the Cape of Good Hope, should the season be advanced,
he sailed from hence, after a Bay of five
days only, carrying along with him an ambassador
from the king of Melinda to Emmanuel; and, as he
had not a sufficient number of men left to navigate
three ships, he ordered that which his brother commanded
to be bun t, because she was crazy and
leaky, and divided the crew between himself and
Nicholas Coeli.

On the 2/th day of February he reached the
sand of Zanzibar, about eight leagues from the
continent, where he found plenty of cattle feeding

on




VASCO DE GAMA. 157

on a rich and fertile soil, abounding with springs of
excellent water, and covered with delightful woods,
interspersed with wild citrons, which diffused the
most agreeable odour. The prince of this island*
tho a Mahometan, having entertained the Portuguese
with great hospitality, and furnished his (hips
with a supply of fruit and fresh provisions, Gama
sailed from thence along the coast, and, palling Mozambique,
took in wood and water, with some pro
visions, at St. Bias; but the wind would not permit
him to touch at the places where he had left
the exiles. On the 26th day of April he doubled
the Cape, from whence he failed to the idand of St,
Jago, where the two ships being separated by a
violent storm, Nicholas Ccelo Steered directly for
Lisbon ; but Gama was obliged to put in at the
idand of Terra, on account of his brother, who
for a long time had languished in a sickly condition,
and was now so ill, that he could not bear
the motion of the Slip: he accordingly ended his
days in this peace ; and the admiral, having performed
his obsequies with all possible decency, proceeded
on his voyage to Lisbon, at which he arrived in the
year 1499; tho Carlo had been before-hand with
him, and given a full detail of the voyage to his Port
tuguefe majesty, who received them with equal joy
and surprize, and distinguished both commanders
with marks of peculiar favour.


The









The Voyage of Pedro Alvarez de

Cabral.


I emmanuel king of Portugal, encouraged
^ by the success of Gama, resolved to prosecute
his discoveries, and settle a trade with India f
and, for that purpose, equipped a fleet of thirteen
ships, furnished with fifteen hundred men, and all
manner of warlike flores, and bellowed the command
of it upon Pedro Alvarez de Cabral, a person
in whose courage and abilities he reposed the
moll unbounded confidence. This admiral was
directed to effect, if possible, a treaty of commerce
with the comorin of Calicut, and obtain permission
from him to build a fort near the city, for the security
of the Portuguese; but, in case that prince
should prove averse to such intercourse, and ill-disposed
towards the Christians, to declare war, and
treat him as an enemy. He was likewise ordered
to wait upon the king of Melinda, with Emmanuel
elms acknowledgments of his hospitality, to testify
that his embassy was extremely acceptable, and that
the king of Portugal would do every thing in his
power to cultivate the friendship of such an amiable
prince. On board of the fleet were five Francs f-
can friars, of distinguished piety and zeal for religion,
who undertook the voyage with a view to
make converts, and perform divine service to the
Portuguese who should settle at Calicut, in case matters
should be amicably determined with the comorin.



Thus


THE VOYAGE, Cst. 159

Thus intruded and provided, Cabral set sail on
the 8th day of March, in the year 1500, and having
passed the island of St. Jago, met with such a
furious tempest as scattered the whole fleet, so that
one ship having lost almost all her rigging, was
driven back to Lisbon; and Cabral, after the storm
abated, having waited for her two days, proceeded
on his voyage, fleering to the westward. On the
24th day of April, one of the seamen descried land,
to the inexpressible joy and surprise of the admiral,
who never dreamed of making such a discovery ;
and who, having approached the coast, tenths mailer
on shore in a boat, to examine its nature and
situation. He soon returned with a favourable account
of the country, which was clothed with a
beautiful verdure, (hated by tall trees, abounding
with excellent water, and inhabited by naked people,
of a dusky olive hue, with long lank hair as black
as jet.

This account was afterwards confirmed by fever
al officers, who went ashore to make observations
; but, in the midst of their joy, they were
overtaken by a dreadful storm, that drove the
ships from their anchors, and toiled them for a confiderable
time along the coast ; until at length they
found a very safe and commodious harbour, which
the admiral named Porto Seguro. Here also Cabral
sent on shore some officers to reconnoitre, and
they returned with two nffiermen whom they had
taken in a canoe; but they were so slow of apprehension,
that the Portuguese, by all the signs they
could contrive, found it impossible to make them
understand their meaning. However, Cabral ordered
them to be clothed, and presented with some
small bells, brass rings, and looking-glasses, and
then to be let on shore. They were extremely
pleased with these baubles, which they shewed in
an ostentatious manner to their countrymen, who,

ah u red







160 THE VOYAGE OF

allured by such trifles, flocked in great numbers to
the fleet, with fruits and provisions, which they
bartered for things of little or no value : in a word,
the ships and the dress of the Portuguese, together
with almost: every thing they beheld, filled them
with the utmost astonishment.

-K Cabral himself, going ashore, ordered an altar to
be erected, under the shade of a large tree, where
service was performed in presence of the natives,
who listened with filent admiration, and by their
gestures seemed to express a deep sense of religion.
In his return to the fleet, they followed him in a
transport of joy, singing aloud, blowing a kind of
trumpets, throwing arrows into the air, and with
uplifted hands seeming to thank heaven, for the
arrival of such a godlike people. Some of them
ran into the sea and swam after his barge, others
attended him in canoes, and could hardly be prevailed
upon to return.

While he lay at anchor in this place, taking ina
supply of water and provisions, his people were
surprised with the appearance of a strange fish that
was cast on shore: at was as thick as a large hogshead,
and about twice as long; its head and eyes
resembled those of an hog; its ears were not unlike
the elephants; but it had no teeth : the (kin was
about an inch thick, covered all over with bridles,
and the tail about five feet in length.

The admiral having erected a marble pillar, in
commemoration of the discovery, called the country
Santa Cruz, tho J it afterwards acquired the name
brasil; and dispatched one of his officers, called
Jasper Lsemio, to Portugal, with an account of its
nature and situation.

Brasil, which lies on the south of the line, is
very extensive, and in some parts almost adjoining
to Peru : it is a fertile and pleasant country, and fd
healthy, that the natives seldom die of any other

distend


PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL, 161

/

distemper than old age. It is watered by many
large rivers, and avail: number of delightful streams :
the plains are large and spacious, affording excellent
pasturage ; the harbours are extremely commodious
and easy of access; and the whole country
affords a mo ft beautiful prospers, diversified with
hill and dale, (hated by thick woods, on which are
many trees fraught with medicinal virtues. All
the natives seem beardless, because they carefully
pluck the hairs from their faces, with an instrument
made for that purpose. They are strangers
to letters and religion, bound by no laws, and ruled
by no particular government; but when engaged in
war, they chuse him for their general, whom they
know to be the bravest and most expert in martial
affairs. The people in general wear no cloaths,
tho the nobility are covered from the waist to the
knees, with skins of parrots, and other birds of various
plumage : their heads are also adorned with
caps, made of the same kind of feathers. The women
comb and dress their hair with a good deal of
nicety, white the men are shaved from the forehead
to the crown. Those who affect the ornaments of
dress have holes in their ears, nostrils, lips, and
other parts of the body, decorated with precious
stones of various colours ; and the women adorn
themselves with little (hells, upon which they put a
very great value. In war the Brazilians use bows,
with which they (hoot so dextrously, that they very
seldom mils their aim ; and their arrows are pointed
with fish-bone that will penetrate the thickest boards.
They live chiefly by hunting, and feed occasionally
upon monkeys, lizards, snakes, and mice. The
boats they use are made of the bark of trees, large
enough to contain thirty men, each, and while some
row the vessel, others beat the water, in order to
frighten the fifth, which being thus alarmed, fwira
up to the surface, and are caught in large calibafties,

disposed


ife THE VOYAGE OF

disposed in a certain manner upon the surface for
this purpose. They sow no corn, but make their
bread of a certain root, which is poisonous, if eaten
before it is duly prepared by being squeezed and
dried in the fun, and from this also they distil a
kind of liquor, by which they are intoxicated even
to a degree of frenzy. They are great observers of
omens, and deal much in sorcery, which is traffic
led by a certain set of men whom they hold in high
veneration, and consult on all emergencies. These
wizards generally carry an arrow, to the end of
which is fixed a calabash cut into the shape of a mans
head : within this gourd they kindle the leaves of a
certain plant, and snuff up the smoke, which is very
intoxicating, until they begin to reel, gnash their
teeth, foam at the mouth, roll their eyes, and twill
themselves into various contorsions, which the spectators
imagine are the effects of divine inspiration
: during these transports, they utter an unconnected
jargon, which is reckoned an oracle:
they are every where attended by crowds, who testify
their respect by loud acclamations, music, and
dancing ; and the most beautiful women, married
and unmarried, are given up to their possession.

fn this country, the husbands may, for any slight
cause, repudiate their wives, and, if they should be
found guilty of adultery, have a right to kill or sell
them as slaves. The natives in general are lazy and
slothful, and spend the greatest part of their time
in feasting, Tinging and dancing to an immoderate
degree. In their dances they form a ring, tho every
individual remains in the same place, beating the
ground with a sort of transport, according to the
variation of the long, which is rude and inharmonious,
composed in honour of their own exploits,
and military courage; and while one set is thus engaged
in dancing, another is employed in supplying

them


PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL. 163

them with liquor, which they swallow until they
crop down in a hate of brutal insensibility.

They live in huts made of wood, thatched with
reeds, and surrounded with a double or triple row of
palisades, and several families dwell under one roof,
connected by a kind of sacred tie: for they will with
pleasure sacrifice their lives in defence of one another.
They never engage in war with a view to enlarge
their territories, but to maintain their dignity,
when they think it is impaired by any injury or affront
: in such cases they chuse a council of seniors
to estimate and regulate the expence and preparations
of the war, and then elect a general, who visits every
house, and in set harangues encourages and animates
the men to deeds of glory. Besides their bows and arrows,
they use swords made of a very hard wood, with
which they cut and maim their enemies in a terrible
manner; and they carry on war by stratagem rather
than open force. Part of the prisoners they immediately
eat, and the rest, being reserved for festivals, are
in the mean time indulged with plenty of provision,
and even furnished with women for their pleasure;
but when the fatal day of rejoicing comes, the plump-eft
of these miserable wretches is brought fortin
fetters, and his mistress, as a mark of affection, ties
about his neck the rope by which he is led to sacrifice.
Then, being fastened to a pillar, he is painted
with a variety of colours, and adorned with feathers,
and between whiles loosened, and cheared
with plenty of victuals and liquor, while the people
feast in public, dance, drink and sing for three days
successively ; on the fourth, the captives arms and
legs are untied, and, with ropes round his waist, the
women and boys pull him along towards a cave,
while others pelt him with orange, which he picks
up and throws at* them in his turn, with all the appearance
of unconcern, and even of mirth ; and
when the spectators infulthim with abusive language,

declaring


164 THE VOYAGE OF

declaring that now he will suffer the punishment due
to his crimes, and be killed, cut in pieces, and eaten
; he replies, with an undaunted air, that as he
has always lived, so will he die, like a brave man,
in defiance of all their tortures ; if they kill him, he
has likewise (lain many of their countrymen; tho
they may glut themselves with his flesh, he is satisfied
with reflecting, that he has been often regaled
upon the mangled bodies of those who were the
friends and relations of his murderers; and that he
has brothers, companions, and kindred, who will
revenge his death. When he arrives at the cave,
the person by whom he had been kept in custody,
having painted his body, and adorned his neck with
feathers, enters with a sword, which he brandishes
over the victims head, dancing, singing, or whiffling
all the while. The captive, in the mean time,
attempts to catch the weapon, but is prevented by
the boys and women, who pull different ways so as
to confine him to the spot where he stands ; in this
Actuation he continues until the executioner stuns him
with several blows, after which he cleaves his skull
with one stroke, and cuts off his hands: this amputation
being performed, the women throw the body
on a fire of wood, where it lies until all the\hair
is scorched off;- then opening the belly, they take
out the intrails, and the rest of the carcass is divided
into Email pieces, on which the barbarians feast
with the utmost satisfaction.

The constant adversaries of those Brazilians, who
live in huts, are another people of the same savage
and brutal disposition, inhabiting the woods and
mountains, among whom no crime but murder is
punished ; and when this is the case, the relations
of the murderer are obliged to deliver him up to
those of the deceased, who put him to death ; then
the kindred of both join in performing the funeral
rites over the two bodies, which they inter with

mutual


PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL, 165

mutual lamentation : but should the assassin escape,
his daughters, sisters, or some of his neared kinswoman
are delivered up as (laves to the kindred of
the defunct; and thus the injury is atoned, and all
resentment buried in oblivion.

Such was the estate of Brasil when it was first
discovered by Cabral, who took his departure from
it on the 29th day of April; and in the beginning
of the next month was surprized by a furious (form,
which ruled down so suddenly, that before the
sails could be handed, and other necessary precautions
taken, four ships that ran foul of one another
were dashed in pieces, and every soul on board peri
(lied in sight of their friends and companions, who
could not give them the lead affiance. Notwithstanding
this dreadful disaster, the remaining seven
proceeded on their course, and were again separate
ted by severe weather ; but on the 27th day of July,
six of them came in sight of one another, the seventh
having put back to Portugal, after the crew had been
reduced to six men, by thirst, hunger, and fatigue.

Cabral, having turned the Cape, descried a mod
pleasant country, shaded with trees, abounding with
cattle, and watered with excellent rivers; but the
inhabitants refusing to supply him with provisions,
or to enter into any sort of intercourse with the Port
tuguefe, he sailed along the coast, until, coming infight
of two islands opposite to the main land, he
espied two ships at anchor ; but the people on board
of them no sooner perceived his vessels, than they
slipped their cables, and crowded all their sails to
make their escape. Notwithstanding their utmost
efforts, they were soon taken by the admiral, who,
understanding they belonged to one Fonteima, a
prince of that country, related to the king of Melinda,
generously dismissed them, without having
touched the gold and merchandise which they had
brought from Zofala,


On



i66 THE VOYAGE OF

On the 24th day of July, he arrived at Mozambique,
where he watered his ships without any obstruction,
and laid in a fresh flock of provisions ;
and, having hired a pilot for Quiloa, proceeded on
his voyage, in sight of several beautiful and well
cultivated islands, subjects to the king of that country,
whose dominions on this coast are two hundred
miles in extent. He and all his people are Maho¬
means, tho some are quite black, and others of a
tawney colour : they speak Arabick and several
other languages, which they learn from the different
nations that trade among them : their dress resembles
that of the Turks and Arabians, and they
live with elegance and taste. Quiloa is about four
hundred miles distant from Mozambique, divided
from the continent by an arm of the sea. The
island is flocked with plants and trees, watered
with refreshing springs, and abounds with tame
cattle as well as with wild heads, which afford the
diversion of hunting. The soil is very fruitful,
the city large and populous; the houses are magnificently
built and elegantly furnished ; and their
ships, which referable those of Mozambique, laid
over with a sort of frankincense indeed of pitch.

Cabral, having come to an anchor in this port,
sent a message to the king, whose name was Abraham,
importing that he had letters for horn, containing
proffers of friendship and alliance from his
Portuguese majesty; and that, as he himself was
unbridled from going ashore, by the express orders
of h is royal mailer, he hoped his majesty would be
so indulgent as to gratify him with an audience
upon the water. Time king received his messengers
in the mod friendly manner, and immediately sent
one of his domestics to the admiral, with presents,
and a promise that he would next day give him a
meeting according to his desire. Accordingly he
appeared upon the water, in a vessel richly adorn

ed;


PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL. 167

cd; his attendants were clad in purple embroidery,
silk, and fine cotton, and armed with swords and
daggers, the handles of which were set with diamonds
; while the harbour resounded with the joyous
music of flutes and trumpets. - Cabral, on the
other hand, saluted him with the sound of cannon,
and ordering all his officers, who were dressed in the
most elegant manner, to attend him in their boats,
he put off in his own barge, and was rowed up to
the king's galley. There he saluted his majesty
with great respect, delivered Emmanuel letters,
written in the Arabian language, and communicated
the particulars of his embassy, which were
joyfully received by the king, who said he should
henceforth consider Emmanuel as his brother, and
at all times duty to advance his honour and promote
his entered. It was likewise agreed, that Cabral
should next day send on shore a person to confirm
this friendship by a solemn league, and every thing
learned to promise a lading and advantageous alliance,
when this favourable disposition was destroyed
by the malicious and artful insinuations of the Arabians,
who, actuated jealousy and pique, represented
the Portuguese as blood-thirty pyrates, who
under the cloak of friendship, would drip the king
of all his possessions, and ravage his whole country
with the utmod cruelty and avarice. These mischievous
calumnies had such an effects upon the king,
that he not only laid aside all thoughts of engaging
in a league with the Portuguese, but he conceived
a rooted aversion to them, ordered the garrison to
be immediately reinforced, and began to put the
city in a procure of defence. These particulars being
communicated to Cabral by the king of Me
linda brother, who happened to be at Quiloa, he
resolved to wade no more time in this place, and
set sail for Melinda, where his arrival gave inex-

pr edible


16S THE VOYAGE OF

preflible joy to the people and their sovereign, who
instantly provided refreshments for the whole fleet.

The admiral, having come to an anchor, sent
ashore the ambassador whom Gama had carried to
Portugal, and along with him some of his own
people, with valuable presents to the king from
Emmanuel; with which his majesty was so well
pleased that he next day appeared in public,
mounted on a fine horse richly caparisoned, which
among other things was sent by the king of Portugal
: in this manner he proceeded to the sea-fide,
where Cabral and all his officers waited for him in *
their boats, and were received by him in the most
courteous and cordial manner. The admiral, however,
notwithstanding his prefixing solicitations,
made but a very short slay in this place ; but left
two exiles, with directions to travel, if possible, into
that part of .ethiopia which lyes above egypt,
where Emmanuel had heard there w 7 as a Christian
prince, and to inform themselves of the manners
and customs of his people.

The fleet weighed from Melinda on the 7th day
of August, and, eroding the Indian sea with a fair
wind, they on the did reached the islands of An-khedive,
where the admiral flayed a few days to
refresh his men : from thence he steered for Calicut,
where he arrived on the 30th, and the comorin was
no soother informed of his arrival, than he dispatched
two of his nares or noblemen, and a considerable
merchant who was a native of Cambaya, to salute
Cabral in his name. These were treated with the
utmost respect by the admiral, who sent ashore
with them John Sala, a gentleman who had accompanied
Gama, and jasper Gama, who had
been formerly in the service of Zabaio, but having
embraced the Christian faith, was now known by
the sirname of his patron : together with these,
went four of the Indian noblemen who had been

carried




PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL. miscarried

to Portugal, and the sight of them dressed
in the Portuguese fashion, now yielded the comorin
infinite pleasure.

Resolving to give audience to Cabral in one of
his royal seats near the seashore, he went thither
in grand procession, with a number of his nobles*
preceded by the sound of gold and silver trumpets 5
and the admiral put off in his barge, attended by
several officers, after having left the command in
his absence to Sancius Shores, On landing,
he was received by a body of the nobles, who had
provided a sedan in which he was conveyed to the
palace, a magnificent structure, adorned on the inside
with silk embroidered tapestry. Here Cabral
having paid his compliments to the comorin, who
was clad in rich attire sparkling with diamonds;
he was seated by him in a silver chair, and Emma
nuel’s letters being* read and interpreted by Jasper,
the comorin made the warmest protestations of
friendship, granted to all the Portuguese the liberty
of a free trade in his dominions, and allured them
of his protection. Pie, moreover, assigned to them
a large house near the shore, for the use and convenience
of those who might be left to transact the
affairs of Emmanuel $ and, as a confirmation of this
grant, ordered it to be recorded on a golden plate :
he likewise directed that a standard with the arms of
Emmanuel should be fixed on the top of the building,
as a testimony of its being appropriated to the
use of his Portuguese majesty.

During these transactions, he was informed that a
large ship, having on board an elephant, had set sail
from Cochin to invade the kingdom of Cambaya,
and, in consequence of this intelligence, he conjured
Cabral to attack this hostile vessel; and that
he might have a particular account of the behavE
our of the Portuguese, he sent some of his domestics
to observe the engagement. For this sorrow

I. i vice.







i 7 © THE VOYAGE OF

vice, the admiral allotted one (mail ship commanded
by Pedro Ataide, assisted by three able officers,
whose names were Duarte Pacheco, Vasco Sylvia
and John Sola; and when the comorin saw
how light Cabral made of the matter, he was struck
with astonishment, and waited the event with the
utmost impatience. The Portuguese were scarcely
prepared for the battle, when the flip appeared ;
however, they immediately bore down upon her,
without going so near as to give the enemy an opportunity
to avail themselves of their darts and
the superior number of their men, and continued
plying her with the great guns, until, seeing a great
many of their people killed, they began to despair
of success, and endeavoured to save themselves by
flight : accordingly she, by favour of the night, entered
the harbour of Cananor, forty miles north of
Calicut, where four Arabian vessels lay at anchor ;
but, finding they were pursued by the Portuguese,
they put to sea again, and, the engagement being
renewed, they were thrown into such condemnation,
that they buffered themselves to be driven into the
harbour of Calicut, to the amazement of the za¬
morn, Who, having heard from his people with
what intrepidity the Portuguese behaved in the
battle, desired to see the individuals, on whom he
bellowed the moll lavish encomiums and some valuable
presents, tho the person whom he mod distinguished
was,Duarto Pacheco, the most gallant
gentleman of the age in which he lived.

This atchievement, while it raised the reputation
of the Christians excited the envy of the Arabians,
who not only renewed their private batteries,
infusing a thou band groundless suspicions into the
mind of the comorin ; but also bought up all the
spices at extravagant rates, rather than the Portus
guess should complete their cargoes. Nay, there
proceedings were connived at by the king, whose

honour


PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL. 171

honour and sincerity Cabral had already begun to
doubt, because some of the hostages on board,
having swam ashore, he had forbore making restitution,
or giving any satisfaction on that head. He
therefore sent an officer to complain of these injuries,
and represent to the comorin, how he had
engaged his honour, that the Portuguese ships
should be loaded within twenty days, whereas
three months were already elapsed, and their cargoes
Hill incomplete, while the Arabian ships were
supplied with great facility and expedition, contrary
to the treaty by which it was stipulated that no nation
should be allowed to purchase any quantity of
spices before the Portuguese had received their full
cargo. Upon this remount ranee, he pretended to
be highly offended at the behaviour of the Arabians,
and desired that Cabral would do himself justice
by unloading their vessels, and putting the cargoes
on board of his own ships, for which he should
pay no more than the just value to the merchants.

This permission the admiral considered as a snare,
in consequence of which the Arabians might be so
incensed as to fall upon and destroy the Portuguese
who were ashore; and howsoever fatal the event
might be, he knew the comorin could easily clear
himself, by throwing the blame upon the Christians,
as the aggressors and beginners of the disturbance.
He therefore debated with himself about
the resolution .he should take on this occasion,
when Ayres Correa, who was left on shore as chief
agent, pressed him by letters to make use of the
liberty granted by the comorin, and, finding him
hill backward, conjured him to act with spirit for
the interest and honour of Emmanuel, in such stimulating
remonstrances and protests, that Cabral
seeing his courage called in question, resolved to do
something that would acquit his character of that
imputation : perceiving an Arabian ship ready to

I 2 put



272 THE VOYAGE OF

put to sea, he sent a person to tell the captain
that he mu ft not depart without his permission 3
and the Arabian paying no regard to his order,
he commanded his officers to mann and arm
the boats and tow the vessel back into the harbour.
The owner who was a man of great wealth and
influence at Calicut, being enraged at this outrage,,
assembled all his friends and adherents, and, going
in a body to the king, complained of the insult,
and demanded redress against those audacious pyrates,
who presumed to act in contempt of his ma-jelly
authority. To this representation, the comorin
made such a reply as gave him to understand
that he should not be displeased at any plan of revenge
they should execute ; and, thus allured, they
with several nares and their followers, amounting
to four hundred, repaired in a riotous manner to the
Portuguese house, threatening destruction to Correa,
who immediately made a signal of distress to the
fleet, and in the meantime put himself in a posture
of defence, tho the number of his men did not
exceed seventy. The admiral, being ill of an ague,
sent Sancius Towards with a detachment in the long
boats to assist their companions, and if possible bring
them safe on board ; but, before they could land,
the Arabians had forced open the gate, broke down
part of the walls, poured in successive showers of
arrows, and at last entered sword in hand to destroy
Correa and his people, who, seeing their deaths
inevitable, made a most furious resistance, and shed
abundance of blood, until they were overpowered
by numbers, and their leader slain. Fifty were
killed upon the spot, and the remaining twenty
forced their way to the sea-fide, and were taken
on board, where, however, the greatest part of
them died of their wounds. Corrects son Antonio,
boy about ten years of ag£, was conveyed to the
shore by Nunnez Leitan, a dragoon, who defended



PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL. 17 3

ed him with incredible valour, but, in spite of all his
efforts, the child mu have perished, because there
was no boat near the place, had not a sailor taken
him on his shoulders and i'wam with him on board,
at the hazard of his own life ; and this boy afterwards
signalized himself by many brave and gallant
atchievements.

Cabral was extremely afflicted at this massacre,
which happened on the 17th day of December;
and, being enraged again the comorin, who took
no notice of the event, nor any step to vindicate
his own char adder, he called a council of his officers,
in which it was resolved, to revenge the murder
of their countrymen; and, in consequence of
this determination, they attacked ten large Arabian
vessels in the harbours The battle was maintained
for some time with great obstinacy on both Tides;
but, at la, the Portuguese boarded them, and killed
above six hundred of the enemy. Being in
want of hands, the admiral reinforced his complement
with the prisoners, and finding three elephants
in the prizes, killed and faked them for
provision, which began to be scarce : then the Arabian
(hips, being plundered, were set on fire ; and
the flames alarmed and terrified the inhabitants of
Calicut to such a degree, that they ran up and down
in the utmost distraction, howling, and uttering
the most dreadful imprecations ; but, they were
not so quit of their fears : for, next day Cabral,
bringing his guns to bear upon the town, demolished
many public as well as private buildings, and
made great havock among the people ; in so much
that the comorin was #ruek with a patrick, and
betook himself to flight, after having seen one of
his dearest friends laid dead at his feet by a cannonball.


The massacre of the Portuguese being thus revenged,
the admiral sailed for Cochin, about sei

3 vent


174 THE VOYAGE OF

vent miles to the southward of Calicut: the city
is incircled by the windings of a river, and there is
a capacious harbour, where ships may ride in safety.
Tho the soil is barren, the country yields an agreeable
prospect, because it is (hated by a great number
of trees, and affords plenty of pepper; and 2s for
the people, they nearly resemble the Calicutians.
Cabral having heard that the king was well disposed
towards the Portuguese, no sooner arrived, than
resent an Indian to his majesty, to desire that he
might be furnished with spices and other commodities
at a reasonable rate. This messenger, whose
name was Michael, had been one of that religious
fed whom the Indians cal 1 Tongues : these devotees
affect an utter contempt of all worldly things, and
live by begging ; they frequent markets and public
places, where they preach up their particular tenets
with great zeal and vehemence ; but, in general,
they are cheats who impose upon the people, for
selfish views, under the cloak of simplicity and religion.
Michael, however, was an exception to
that general rule; for, he possessed an honest heart
that abhorred such deceit, and accordingly became
a (sincere convert to the Christian faith. On this
occasion, he returned with a very civil and polite
answer from the king, who expressed his joy at the
arrival of the Portuguese, and chearfully promised
to supply them with every thing they wanted. Articles
of friendship were immediately fettled, and
the admiral sent some persons ashore to present him
with some silver plate, and purchase a quantity of
spices : these he received in a very hospitable manner,
and lodged in a strong large house, where they
resided until their business was finished, under the
protection of several nares appointed for that purpose.


During


PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL. 175

During these transactions, Cabral received invitations
from the kings of Cananor and Cobham, to
come and trade in their ports; but, as he had already
engaged to take his goods from the king of
Cochin, he thanked them for their kind intention,
and excused himself on account of his previous
contract ; promising, however, to trade with them
in case he should not be able to complete his cargo
at Cochin. At the same time, he was visited by
two Indian Christians from the city of Cranganor,
who having been instructed in the gospel, which is
laid to have been propagated in those parts by St.
Thomas, intreated Cabral to carry them to Portugal,
from whence they might travel to Rome and
J er salem, which they fervently longed to see;
and the admiral granted their request without hesitation.


The ships had already taken in their cargoes,
when the king received information that the comorin
of Calicut had equipped a fleet of twenty
large ships, besides a great number of small vessels,
on board of which were fifteen thousand soldiers,
in order to revenge the loss and insult he had sustained
in his capital: and this intelligence being
communicated to Cabral, he prepared his ships for
an engagement, and sailed directly to meet the
enemy; but, a contrary wind hindered him from
falling in with them, and they seeing with what resolution
he endeavoured to engage, were seized
with consternation, and declined the ashton : fb
that, without further obstruction, he set out on his
return to Portugal, having left Gonzalo, Barbara,
and Laurence Modena, with some others to manage
the affairs of Emmanuel at Cochin. When he
came upon the coast of Cananor, he received
another invitation from the king, in consequence of
which he entered the port of that city, which is large

I 4 and










176 THE VOYAGE OF

and spacious, situated in a bay, and forming a mod
commodious harbour. The country abounds withall
the necessaries of life. The reigning king was
rich and liberal, and as to his government and way
of life, differing but little from the rest of the
princes in Malabar. Here the admiral purchased
some cinnamon and ginger, but so little in quantity,
that the king, upon the supposition of his having
been robbed at Calicut, sent him a message importing
that his purse was at the service of Cabral, and
begged he would use it as freely as if it belonged to
Emmanuel. The admiral thanked his majesty for
I is generous offer, which however he declined,
after having (hewn to the messenger a round sum
of money, to convince him that he stood in no need
of such assistance, and that he forbore making a
larger purchase, because the ships were already
loaded.

Ontheibthday of January, he sailed from this
place, having taken on board an embassador to
Emmanuel $ and, being a little way iliort of Melinda,
took a very rich (hip, which he dismissed as
soon as he understood file belonged to an Arabian
merchant of the kingdom of Cambaya, telling the
commander, that Emmanuel was at war with none
in India but the comorin of Calicut and the x 4 arabians
of Mecca, from whom he had received the
mo ft flagrant indignities. Soon after this incident,
the fleet was overtaken by a terrible storm, by
which the flip of Sancius Solar was driven upon
a bank, where, after the crew and cargo were taken
out, (lie was burnt by the admiral's order, that
she might be of no service to the enemy : but, notwithstanding
this precaution, the king of Mombaze
found means to recover the cannon. Cabral intended
to have touched at Melinda, but, as the
wind did not favour his design, he continued his

course


PEDRO ALVAREZ DE CABRAL. 177

course towards Mozambique, where he repaired
and victualed his fleet. Then he bestowed the
command of another ship upon Solar, whom he
sent to examine the coast of Zofala, while he himself
proceeded with the rest to Portugal ; and, after
having suffered much severe weather, arrived at Lisbon
on the 31ft day of July, in the year 1501. .


5


Th



. /






















m-





■ .




\










*-























Toll




























































































































































































































































































































































































































































The Conquest of Mexico, by Her
nando Cortes*

CHAP. I.

Diego de Velasquez , governor of Cuba , equips a fleet
which sails upon discoveries , under the command of
'Juan de Grijalva . He discovers the island of
Cozumel ; makes the land of Yucatan ; enters the
river Dabafco \ trades with the Indians ; proceeds
to the river of Canoes , w here he is attacked by the
natives , who are defeated arid returns to Cuba .

np EI E conquest of Mexico is a transaction of
such importance, and abounds with such entertaining
incidents, that it would be altogether
Superfluous to usher it in with any recommendation
to the reader.

Several authors have writ an account of this expedition,;
but, as the learned Antonio de Solis has
taken great pains to collate and compare the different
details, and consult original papers, which
enabled him to solve and remove divers doubts and
difficulties, and account for some contradictions
that occur in the various histories of this memorable
event, we have determined to follow him, not
only as the mo ft authentic historian, but likewise
as the most elegant writer on the subject.

I 6 In


iSo THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

In the year 1517, which was that in which
Charles V. took possession of Spain, the conquests
and settlements in the Weft-Indies, belonging to
that kingdom, were limited to the islands of Hispaniola,
St. Juan de Puerto-rico, Cuba and Jamaica,
with a small part of the Terra-firma in
the province of Darien, at the entrance of the
gulph of Uraka. The island of Cuba was at that
time governed by Diego Velasquez, who going
thither as lieutenant to Don Diego Colon, second
admiral of the Indies, had conquered the natives,
and made very confiderable settlements. The
province of Yucatan upon the continent, had been
discovered by Francisco Fernandez de Cordova,
who, with the greatest part of his followers, was
killed by the Indians of that country : nevertheless,
those who returned to Cuba magnified the fertility
and wealth of this new continent, and, by shewing
forte toys of gold which they had brought from
thence, railed such a spirit of curiosity and hope,
as diffused itself through all ranks of people, and
even inspired the governor with the ambition of
Increasing his fortune, and rendering himself independent
of Colon, whose superiority, tho almost
entirely nominal, he could not bear without repining.


With these sentiments, he resolved to renew the
attempt of a discovery ; soldiers were inlifted, and
three vessels fitted out, under the command of his
own relation Juan dc Grijalva, assisted by the advice
and service of Pedro de Alvarado, Francisco
de Monte and Alonzo Davila, men distinguished
for their valour, humanity and discretion. On the
8th day of April 1518, they set sail from Cuba,
discovered the island of Cozumel, where they ref
refined themselves without meeting with opposition
from the natives, in a few days made the land of
Yucatan, and, doubling the point of Cotoche,

coasted


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 181

coasted along westerly, until they arrived at Po
concha or Champion, where Francisco Fernando
des was routed and killed. Here they landed to
revenge his death, and having vanquished the Indians,
returned on board in order to prosecute their
discovery. Sailing still westerly along Shore, they
descried several towns, confiding of stone-buildings,
and one of the soldiers observing that the country
resembled Spain, the hearers relished the companion
so well, that from thence forward this continent
adopted the name of New Spain.

In following this course, they arrived at the
place where the river Tobacco discharges itself by
two mouths, into the gulph of Mexico, and Juan
de Grijalva, who gave his name to the river, finding
the stream was shallow, embarked all his fol
tiers on board of the two smallest vessels, in order
to sail up, leaving the other two at anchor in the
entrance. Having with some difficulty stemmed
the current, and sailed for some time between a
number of pleasant villages, they perceived at a
little distance, a fleet of canoes full of armed
Indians, and a large body on shore, who by outcries
and gesticulations that betrayed their own fear,
endeavoured to intimidate and prevent the Spaniards
from landing. Grijalva seeing them struck
with astonishment and terror at the appearance of
his vessels and men, took this opportunity to leap
on bore, where having drawn up his people, and
erected the royal standard as an act of possession,
he sent two Indian boys, who had been taken in
the first expedition to Yucatan, with a message to
the natives, importing that he came in peace without
any intention to give offence. In consequence
of this declaration, they approached in four canoes,
and the compliments of salutation being past,
Grijalva, by the help of his interpreters, gave them
to understand that he and his soldiers were servants

to


182 THE CONQUEST OF MEXfCG.

to a powerful monarch, who possessed an empire
where the fun rises; and in whose name he was
come to offer them peace and great advantages, provided
they would become his subjects. This proposal
was not at all agreeable to the Indians, one
of whom replied, that it could not be a good peace,
the condition of which was subjection ; but, with
regard to peace or war they would consult their
superiors, and speedily return with a definitive
answer. Accordingly they soon came back with
signals of peace, and were followed by the cacique
or chief, who, after having made his submission
with great gravity, presented Grijalva with a plentiful
banquet of fruit and provision, and afterwards
with plumes of various colours, robes of fine
cotton, and figures of animals made of thin plates
of gold : in return for this liberality, Grijalva gratified
him and his attendants with some Castilian
trifles, that were very acceptable ; then re-embark
ing, he returned to sea, and, continuing the same
course as far as another river, called it the river of
flags, because', upon the neighbouring shore, they
saw a great number of Indians waving white flags
in token ©f peace, and by other signals and cries
inviting the Christians to land. In compliance with
their desire, the Spaniards went on shore, and
were received with great hospitality by three principal
men, who had provided a banquet for their
guests, after which they ordered their people to
produce some pieces of gold, which they wanted
to exchange for European commodities. A market
was immediately opened, with beads, combs,
knives and other instruments of iron, for .which
Grijalva, in the space of six days, received to the
amount of fifteen thousand * pesos of gold. These
three chiefs gave the Spaniards to understand they
were servants to Montezuma, whose empire extended


Peto was equal to ninety grains.





THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 183

ed over many countries, abounding with gold and
other riches; and that they came by his order to
examine into the intention of the Christians.

Grijalva parted with them in an amicable
manner, and coasting along, landed in a mal!
island which he called the island of sacrifices, because
going to view an house built of stone that
overlooked the rest, he found several idols of an
horrible figure, and near them the mangled bodies
of six or seven men newly sacrificed. From thence
they passed to another isle, which was called St.
Juan de Ulua, because. they made it on the baptists
day, and heard an Indian pronounce several
times the word Culpa with great vociferation.
Here they stayed several days, exchanging toys for
plates of gold with the natives who came from the
neighbouring parts; and from thence Pedro de Al
varado was dispatched to Cuba, in one of the (hips,
with all the gold, and an account of the discover*
ries which had been made, as well as with an earnest
request that Velasquez would send a reinforcement
of men and necessary stores, to enable Grijal¬
va to make a settlement. Immediately after Alva
rado’s departure, the other three vessels left St,
Juan de Ulua, and, still following the direction of
the coast as far as Patiuco, came to anchor in the
river of canoes, so named because they were attacked
in this place by sixteen canoes filled with
armed Indians, who, after having cut the cable of
one flip, were charged, defeated and put to flight
by the Spaniards. From hence they sailed along
till they arrived at a point of land running far out
into the sea ; and, as they found great difficulty in
doubling this cape, the pilots protested against proceeding
farther, and were seconded by the men,
grown weary of such a tedious navigation.

Grijalva having called a council of his officers to
deliberate upon the posture of their officers, it was

agreed



i §4 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO,

agreed, as one of the ships had sustained damage,
as the provision began to spoil, the people were
dissatisfied, and the intrusions of governor Velasquez
forbad them to make any settlement, that
they should proceed no farther, but return to Cuba,
where they might be furnished. with necessaries for
another expedition. In consequence of this determination,
he altered his course, and, on the 15th
of November 1518, arrived in the harbour of St.
Jago, where he was very ungratefully received by
Velasquez, who bitterly reproached him for having
omitted to make a settlement, tho he produced
his own order, by which he was restricted in that
particular.

\

CHAP. II.

X

The character of Cries ; he receives a commissioners
Velasquez ; fits out a fleet; sails to the Savannah j
is persecuted by Velasquez.

T HIS governor had been transported with joy
at sight of the gold brought by Alvarado, who
arrived but a few days before Grijalva ; and, to such
a degree of eagerness and impatience was he inflamed
by their success, that, even in this short space, he
had sent a person to the court of Spain, with an
account of the discovery, and a detail of his own
services; in consideration of which, he sollicited
the title of king's lieutenant of the countries he
should conquer : and he had actually begun to sit
out a new fleet for another expedition, the conduct
of which, he resolved to entrust to a man of distinguished
activity and resolution. The voice of the
people was in favour of Grijalva, who had already
given proofs of his honour and ability; and his
competitors were Antonio and Bernardino Velasquez
near relations of the governor, and several

other


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 18$

other gentlemen of good character and great influence
in the island: but the governor continued
irresolute, dreading the ambition of those whose
capacity he approved, until Amatory de Lariz the
king's treasurer, and Andres de Duero his own fe*
secretary, in whom he entirely confided, proposed
their friend Herman Cortes as a person every way
qualified for such a command. This celebrated
conqueror was a native of Modelled, a town of
Estremadura, descended from a good family, and
educated for a military life. His parents intended
to have sent him to Italy to serve under that great
captain Gonfalvo de Cordoua, but just when he
was ready to embark, he was taken ill of a dangerous
distemper, by which that opportunity was
lost : he afterwards resolved to push his fortune, in
the Weft-Indies, and sailed thither in the year 1504,
with letters of recommendation to Don Nicholas
de Obando who was his kinsman, and at that time
governor of St. Domingo. Notwithstanding the
favourable reception he met with from that gentleman,
he soon grew tired of inaction, for, by this
time the island of Hispaniola was wholly reduced,
and understanding the war was (till carried on in
Cuba, he obtained leave to go thither, and signalized
himself in such a manner, as to acquire the
reputation of a valiant soldier and able officer.
Nor was he less remarkable for other agreeable endowments
: his person and address were prepossessing,
his disposition was amiable, his conversation
entertaining, and his generosity unbounded. By
dint of these accomplishments, he won the heart
of a noble young lady called Donna Catalina
Snares Pacheco, who was sollicited in marriage by
the governor Diego Velasquez ; and his success exasperated
that gentleman to such a degree, that he
caused him to be apprehended and kept in confinement,
until the affair was adjusted, and then Velasquez




186 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

Vasquez flood father to the bride. He afterwards
Lived in a degree of intimacy with Cortes, or
whom he conferred the poll of alcalde or chief ma
nitrate in the town of St. Jago, an employment
usually conferred on those who had distinguished
themselves in the conquest of those countries.

In this situation was Herman Cortes, when his
friends recommended him to Velasquez, as a proper
person to conduct the purposed enterprize; and the
governor approving of their choice, a commission
was immediately signed, appointing him captain
general of the fleet, and of the countries he should
discover and subdue.

This nomination was no sooner known than re
fen ted by all the competitors, especially by the relations
of Velasquez, who did not scruple to censure
his conduct openly, in reposing such important
trust in a man whom he had once so flagrantly disobliged
; in a man who concealed the moll vindictive
disposition under the mask of courtesy and
mildness, and who employed the moil insinuating
artifices to acquire a popularity which could not
fail of being very dangerous to those who had incurred
his displeasure. It is even reported, that
the governor was one day accosted by a waggish
lunatick, who said, 44 Thou hail done well, friend
44 Diego: in a little time there will be occasion
44 for another fleet to go in pursuit of Cortes
In all probability, this sarcasm was dictated by
some of those who envied the fortune of the new
general. These remonstrances had at first no
effect upon Velasquez, who adhered to his resolution,
while Herman began to make preparations for his
departure. He employed his own fortune, and all
he could borrow, in the purchase of provisions,
arms and ammunition, and insisted soldiers with
such expedition and success, that, in a few days,
above three hundred were engaged by the same of


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 187

the enterprize, and the character of the captain ;
and among these was Diego de Ordaz, a creature
and confidant of Velasquez. These together with
the sailors, and all other necessaries, being embarked
in ten vessels from eighty to one hundred
tons, they sailed from the port of St. Jago de Cuba,
on the 18th day of November in the year 1^18,
and, coasting along the north side of the island towards
the call, arrived in a few days at the port of
La T trinidad, where Cortes, publishing his design,
was joined by Juan de Efcalante, Pedro Sanchez
Farfan, Gonzalo Media, and other confiderable
persons of that settlement, and afterwards by Pedro
de Alvarado with four of his brothers, and Alonzo
Davila : from the town of Sancti Spiritus, which
sands at a little distance from La 7 'rirddad, he
was reinforced by Alonzo Hernandez Pertocarrero,
Gonzalo de Sandoval, Rodrigo Ranges, Juan Velasquez
de Leon, who w 7 as the governors relation,
and others persons of distinction, who resolved to
follow the fortune of Cortes. But he was no
sooner departed from St. Jago, than his enemies
renewed their batteries again!! him, and at length,
by the assistance of a pretended astrologer, found
means to arouse the jealousy of Velasquez, who
immediately dispatched couriers to La Trinidad,
with orders to his cousin Francisco Vertigo alcalde
of the place, to dispossess Cortes of his command
in a judicial way, his commission being revoked.
Herman being informed of his design, confuted
his friends and adherents, who declared with
great vehemence, that they would hand by him to
the last extremity ; and no w, affined of their fidelity,
he went to visit the alcalde, to whom he complained
of the governors injurious behaviour, alluring him
that his followers were so much incensed at the
affront, that it was with great difficulty he could
restrain them from ails of violence. He represent
ted


18 8 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.,

y <1 '*

fenced the weakness and injustice of Don Diego 1? s
proceedings, which argued a mean jealousy of a
man whose friendship he had no reason to doubt;
and used such arguments to prove what prejudice
not only he and all his followers, but also his majesty's
interest would suffer from the execution of
the governors order, that the alcalde was convinced,
and far from taking any step to delay the expedition,
wrote to Velasquez, exhorting him to
desist from his purpose, and his advice was backed
by letters from Diego de Ordaz and others, who
enjoyed some degree of his favour; and Cortes
himself took the same opportunity of vindicating
his own character, gently reproaching him with
having listened to the suggestions of his private
enemies.

Mean while, he resolved to prosecute his voyage,
and having sent Pedro de Alvarado by land, with a
party of soldiers to take care of the horses, and raise
recruits in the settlements through which he should
pals; he sailed with the fleet for the Havana, and
that same night the rest of the ships separated from
the capitan, in which he himself had embarked ;
but, as the pilots did not perceive their error till
day-light, they were obliged to continue their
course to the Havana, where they were kindly
received by Pedro de Barba the governor under Velasquez
Here they stayed several days without
hearing any news of Cortes, so that they concluded
he was lost, and began to deliberate about chasing
another conductor, when the election was happily
prevented by the safe arrival of their original captain,
whose ship having struck upon some flats near
the isle of pines, received such damage, and stuck
so fast, that he had been obliged to unload her upon
a little sandy island in the neighbourhood before
she could be got off; and seven days elapsed before
file could be refitted and reloaded.


When


Time CONQUEST OF MEXICO, ig 9

When he arrived at the Havana, he was received
with the loud acclamations of his men, and
treated with great courtesy and respect by the governor
and here he was joined by Francisco de
Montejo, afterwards king's lieutenant of Yucatan,
and many other persons of note, who added to the
reputation of the enterprize. During the few days
he was obliged to stay in this place in order to fish
the equipment, he cleaned and proved his artillery,
ordered a number of cotton quilts to be made as
coats of mail to defend his people from the Indian
arrows, exercised his soldiers in the use of their firearms
and cross-bows, as well as in the management
of their pikes, and taught them to form a battalion,
file off, attack and retreat, according to the most
approved practice in war. In the midst of these
preparations, one Gaspar de Arnica arrived with
dispatches to Pedro de Barba, containing express
orders to dived Cortes of his command, and send
him prisoner to St. Jago with a good convoy ; and
at the same time, he sent letters to Diego de ,
and Juan Velasquez de Leon, commanding
them to assist the governor in the execution of his
orders.

Cortes, Blocked and incensed at this fresh instance
of the folly and insolence of Velasquez, which so
evidently tended to the miscarriage of an enterprize
in which he and his friends had embarked their
whole fortunes, resolved to provide for himself, and
make use of the force he was mailer of, as his occasions
should require. In the mean time, before
Pedro de Barba had determined to publish the ( r-
der, he commanded Diego de Ordaz, whose fidelity
he suspected from the efforts he had made to be
chosen chief in his absence, to embark immediately
on board of one of the vessels, and make the
b ft of his way to Guanicanico, a settlement on the
other side of Cape St. Antonio, to take in provisions

and



i 9 3 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

and wait for him and the rest of the fleet: then
he visited Juan de Velasquez, whom he soon
brought over to his interest. Having taken these
precautions, his next step was to explain his fixation
to the soldiers, who expressed the utmost indignation
against his enemies, and raised such a tumult
as could not be appeased, until Pedro de Barba,
who dreaded the consequence of their fury,
appearing with Cortes, publickly declared that he
had no intention to execute the order of Velasquez,
which he looked upon as a flagrant piece of injustice.
At the same time, he sent back Arnica with
letters to that governor, representing, in the strongest
terms, the ferment his order had produced, to
the manifest danger of the town, and advising
him to regain Cortes by adds of friendship.

This commotion being quieted, and a brigantine
added to the fleet, Cortes divided his men into
eleven companies, one of which was put on board
of eachvefiel; and he named for captains, Juan
Velasquez de Leon, Alonzo Hernandez Porto-career,
Francisco de Montejo, Christmas de Olid,
Juan de Efcalante, Francisco de Morea, Pedro de
Alvarado, Francisco Sauce, and Diego de Orel
az, whom he was not willing to disoblige ; reserving
to himself the command of the capitan,
and entrusting; Gives de Notes with the care of
the brigantine. The command of the artillery he
bestowed upon Francisco de Orozco, who had Signalized
himself in the wars of Italy ; and his chief
pilot was Antonio de Alaminos, who had acted in
the same capacity in the voyages of Francisco Fer
nantes de Cordoua and juan de Grijalva. He
then delivered instructions to his officers, and, the
day of embarkation being arrived, after a solemn
mass, in which all the soldiers assisted, he gave the
word St. Peter , whom he acknowledged as patron
of his expedition. Pedro de Alvarado was sent to

Guanicanico


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. j gi

Guanicanico in quest of Ordaz, with whom he
had orders to go and wait for the fleet at Cape St.
Antonio : and the rest of the vessels were directed
to follow the capitan, and in case of reparation,,
to rendezvous at the Kle of Cozumel, where Cortes
proposed to concert the plan of operations,

CHAP. III.

He takes his departure from Cuba ; lands upon the
island of Cozumel ; enters into a treaty of friendship
with the cacique ; demolished the Indian idols;
redeems a captive Spaniard called Jerom de
Aguilar .



ripHESE steps being taken, they departed from
j§ the Havana on the icth day of February
1519, with a favourable gale; but, at fun set, a
furious form arising put the whole fleet in disorder.
Pedro de Alvarado, who had failed in quell
of Diego de Ordaz, perceived at day break the
temper: had driven him so far into the gulph, that
it would he very difficult to weather cape St. Antonio
; and therefore, with the consent of his pilot,
steered away for Cozumel, where they found
a small town near the coast, abandoned by the Indians,
who had fled farther into the country at their
approach. Alvarado, who was a young man of a
very enterprizing spirit, tho unguided by experience
and discretion, thought nothing misbehave a
soldier so much as inaction, and, with that sentiment,
ordered his men to march farther into the
island, in order to reconn ire. At the distance of
a league, they found another town abandoned as
the first, and here the soldiers made-prize of some
provisions, together with the plunder of an idol-temple,
confiding of ornamental jewels, and instruments
for sacrifice, made of gold mixed with

copper 3



i 9 2 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO,

copper, tho* of small value. This expedition, far
from promoting the service, rendered it impracticable
to gain the friendship and assistance of the
Indians, and Alvarado was afterwards sensible of
his misconduct.

Next day Cortes arrived with the fleet, having
sent another veil'd with directions to Ordaz, on
the supposition that Alvarado was prevented by the
storm, and tho he was very well pleased to find
that young captain in safety at Cozumel, he reprimanded
him in public for his rash behaviour, and
dismissed three Indian prisoners whom he had taken,
after having ordered their effects to be restored, and
given them some presents for their caciques, in
token of amity and peace.

The Spaniards continued three days encamped
on the sea-fide, during which the men were mustered,
and found to amount to five hundred and
eight soldiers, one hundred and nine marines and
mechanics, besides two chaplains, who were the
licentiate Juan Dial and Father Bartholomew de
Oviedo; and this army was strengthened by sixteen
horse. The people being assembled on this
occasion, Cortes took the opportunity of making a
public speech, in which, after having inflamed
their courage and cupidity with the promise of
honour and wealth, he explained the dangers they
must lay their account with encountering, and represented,
in the strongest terms, the necessity of
acting with unanimity and undaunted resolution.

This harangue was interrupted by the appearance
of some Indians, and tho they were unarmed
and in small detached parties, he drew up his menin
order, without beat of drum, and directed them
to stand covered behind their lines, prepared for
whatever should happen. The Indians perceiving
no signs of hostility among the Spaniards, approached
by little and little, and the boldest of them
7 entering


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 193

entering the camp, were so favourably received,
that they called to their countrymen, who followed
their example, and mingled among the soldiers
with great confidence and familiarity, which argued
that they were accustomed to converse with
Grangers. Indeed there was an idol in this island,
very much reverenced by the barbarians, who resorted
to it in great crowds, from all the different
provinces of the continent; so that the natives of
Cozumel were used to the sight of nations who
differed from one another in custom, language and
dress. Next day, the principal cacique of the
island visited Cortes, who received him very graciously
; and while the conversation was carried on
by the medium of an interpreter, one of the Indians
was heard to pronounce the word Camilla , the
meaning of which when Cortes demanded, he
was given to understand that the savage said, the

I Spaniards resembled certain prisoners in Yucatan,
who were natives of a country called Camilla .
Herman immediately concluded that those prisoners
were his countrymen, whom he forthwith resolved
to release; and, consulting his guest on this subjects,
the cacique very candidly told him, they were in
the power of some Indians of the highest rank, residing
in the heart of Yucatan, and that, the molt:
j certain and expeditious method of procuring their
liberty, wound be to offer a ransom ; for, Should
he have recourse to arms, they would run the risque
of being furthered by their mailers. In complies
ance with this advice, he ordered Diego de Ordaz
| to fail to the coast of Yucatan, according to the
I direction of the cacique, with a letter to the prit
somers, and some trifles for their ransom, and to slay
H eight days, within which space the Indians, ap
Jj pointed by the cacique for that purpose, undertook

I to return with an answer; mean while Cortes
1 marched with his men in a body round the island,

Vol. I. K in

I ' ".










i 9 4 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO*

in order to view the country, keep his men m
action, which might prevent irregularities, and display
his strength and discipline to the pilgrims, who
would not fail to magnify both, in the respective
nations to which they belonged. In this circuit he
was always accompanied by the cacique and a great
number of Indians, who supplied him with provisions,
and exchanged gold for glass beads, which
they believed they could never purchase too dear.

At a little defiance from the coast, Hood the
temple of the idol, so much revered by the savages:
it was a square Hone building of no contemptible
architecture, and the idol, called Cozumel, appeared
in the figure of a man of a moi horrible aspect.
Here was a very great concourse of people, listening
to a priest distinguished by a certain garb, who
seemed to preach with great gravity and emphasis
of speech and gesticulation. Cortes, shocked at
the absurdity of such worship, told the cacique,
that, in order to maintain the friendship subsisting
between them, it would be absolutely necessary for
him to renounce such a diabolical religion, and influence
his subjects to follow his example. This
declaration he enforced by such arguments in favour
of the Christian religion, that the chief was confounded
and dismayed, and begged leave to communicate
the affair to his priests, with whom he
left the absolute authority of deciding in matters of
religion. These being immediately brought before
Cortes, and informed of the affair in agitation,
began with hideous outcries to protest against those
who should be so audacious as to disturb the worship
of their gods, denouncing the immediate vengeance
of heaven upon such impious innovators. - Cortes,
without paying the least regard to their menaces,
immediately ordered his soldiers to demolish the
altar and break all their idols in pieces: a scene
that filled the barbarians with astonishment and

affright j








THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. tes

affright; which, however, were succeeded by contempt
for their own deities, when they beheld the
Christians use them in this manner with impunity*
The other temples underwent the same fate, except
the chief place of worship, which being cleansed
from all impurities, was converted into a Christian
chappel \ and, next day, mass was said at a new altar,
in presence of the cacique and his people, who
assisted at the ceremony with great reverence and
marks of devotion.

At the end of eight days, Diego de Ordaz returned
from Yucatan, without the prisoners or the
Indians, who had not returned according to their
promise: so that Cortes was highly displeased at
the cacique, who, he supposed, had deceived him
by false intelligence, in order to appropriate to himself
the presents intended for the ransom. nevertheless,
he would not manifest his resentment or
suspicion, but, taking his leave of him with great
civility and expressions of satisfaction, he put to
sea, intending to pursue the course which had been
followed by Grijalva. Although they set sail with
a fair wind, they were obliged that same day to return
to the island, in consequence of an accident
that happened to the flip commanded by Juan de
Efcalante, which sprung a leak, and had almost
foundered before she reached the Chore. This delay,
which at first: seemed a misfortune, turned out a
most lucky incident, which greatly contributed to
the conquest of New Spain ; for, after having spent
four days in repairing the damage, jus as they
were re-embarking, they discovered a canoe crossing
the gulph of Yucatan, and (landing directly
for the island. Cortes, perceiving (lie was full of
armed Indians, ordered Andrew de Tapis to lie in
ambuscade near the place to which they rowed,
and as soon as they landed, he rushed between them
and the canoe, so as to cut off their retreat. The

K 2 savages








i 9 6 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

savages immediately betook themselves to flight,
but one among them, advancing a few paces towards
the Spaniards, pronounced with a loud voice
in the Castilian tongue, <c I am a Christian.”
Tapis received him with equal joy and surprize,
and conduced him to the general, attended by the
Indians, who were no other than the messengers
left by Diego de Ordaz on the coast of Yucatan.
He had no covering but just enough to hide his na
redness, and on one shoulder he bore his bow and
quiver. Cortes caressed him extremely, and having
given orders to clothe and regale him, desired
to know who he was, and by what accidents he
was reduced to such a wretched equipage. He
said he was called Jerom de Aguilar, a native of
Ecija, where he had received deacons orders : he
had been, eight years before this deliverance, shipwrecked
upon the flats of the Alacranes, in his passage
from Darien to Hispaniola, and with twenty
other persons taking to the boat, had reached the
shore of Yucatan, where they were taken and carried
to a country of Caribbee Indians, whose cacique
immediately culled out the fattest of them as
sacrifices to their idols. As for Aguilar, he was so
lean and meagre, that they reserved him for a future
banquet, and, that he might be in better case, gorged
him with food in a wooden case, from which
he made shift to escape. Having wandered several
days in the fields, without any other support than that
which the herbs and trees afforded, he fell into the
hands of certain Indians, by whom he was presented
to their cacique, who was at war with him from
whom he had made his escape. This master, who
was less barbarous than the former, he served for
some years, during which he acquired such a degree
of his favour, that he conferred upon him an
employment near his person, and honoured him
with his confidence. The cacique, upon his deathbed,










THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 197

bed, recommended him to his Ton, under whom he
possessed the same office; and, in a war with the
neighbouring caciques, signalized his valour and
conduct in such a manner, that he became a great
favourite both of prince and people; so that, when
he received the letter from Cortes, he obtained his
liberty as the recompence of his services, and offered,
as his own gift, the presents that were sent
for his ransom.

CHAP. IV.

He sails from Cozumel ; enters the river Grijalva ;
defeats the Indians ; takes the town of Tabasco ;
obtains a great victory.

T HE Spaniards, having refitted their flip and
gained this valuable acquisition, departed
from the island for the second time, on the 4th of
March 1519, and doubling the point of Catch,
which is the most easterly part of Yucatan, arrived
in the road of Champaign, where Cortes discovered
an inclination to land, and chastise the natives
for the opposition they had made to Hernandez
de Cordoua and Grijalva; but, being overruled
by the suggestions of the pilots, who represented
that the wind favoured the prosecution of
their voyage, and was directly contrary to their
landing in this place, he pursued his coterie until; he
reached the river of Grijalva, where there was no
room for deliberation; for, the good treatment
which the Spaniards had formerly received from hie
Indians of Tabasco, and the gold brought from
thence, were motives not to be refilled. He therefore
made a disposition for entering the river,
leaving his larger vessels at anchor without, and
embarking his soldiers on board of the finally and
the boats; and, in the order formerly observed by

K 3 Grijalva,













ig8 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO,

Grijalva, began to stem the current, when he perceived
both Tides of the river covered with canoes
full of armed Indians, supported by several bodies
on shore. Guessing, from their outcries and gesticulations,
that their intent was hostile, he sent
Aguilar as interpreter, in a canoe, with offers of
peace, which being rejected with insolence, he resolved
to chastise them for their presumption, altho
his revenge would delay his grand project of penetrating
at once into the territories of Montezuma.

Night being at hand, he thought'proper to lie
by till day, and in the mean time ordered his soldiers
to put on their quilted coats, to transport the
artillery into the small vessels, and make all the necessary
preparations for an engagement. Day no
sooner appeared, than his vessels, being ranged in
the figure of an half moon, advanced slowly towards
the Indians, who waited their' approach in
the same order ; and Cortes, hill loth to shed the
blood of those ignorant say ages, sent Aguilar a
second time with proposals of amity and peace, to
which they made no answer, but, giving the signal
for the attack, rowed down with great expedition
by favour of the current, until they w T ere near
enough to use their arrows, of which they discharged
such a number both from the canoes and banks
of the river, that the Spaniards were very much
embarrassed in their endeavours to cover themselves.
Nevertheless, having sustained the charge, they returned
it with such interest, that the canoes quickly
left the passage free, and many Indians, intimidated
by the death of their companions, flung themselves
into the river. The Spanifh vessels approached
the shore, in a marshy place covered with brambles,
where the Indians lay in ambush, and renewed the
attack with great fury ; notwithstanding which,
Cortes made his point good, and having formed
his battalion in sight of the enemy, whole numbers
7 continually


V


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 199

continually increased, he ordered Alonzo Davila
to advance with an hundred soldiers through the
wood, and take posteriori of the town of Tabasco,
which, according to the information of those who
had been in the former expeditions, was not far
from the place of action. This officer being detached,
Cortes at the head of his troops attacked
that vast multitude, and though he was obliged to
fight up to the knees in mud, where he lost one of
his own shoes, he put the savages to flight, and
they instantly disappeared, tho with intention to
defend their town, as by this time they had discovered
the march of Davila. But, before he got up,
Cortes reached Tabasco, which was fortified with
large trunks of trees fixed in the ground like palisades,
with interstices for the convenience of
shooting arrows: and at the extremity of the
circle, one line covered the other, forming a narrow
winding lane, in which were two or three
block-houses of wood that filled up the passage.
Cortes, being joined by Davila, whole march had
been retarded by marshes and lakes, distributed
among the men proper instruments for breaking
down the palisades, and, drawing his sword, led
them on to the attack. Having received a shower
of arrows on their shields, they advanced to the
fortification, and, discharging their fire-arms and
cross-bows through the interstices, quickly drove
the. enemy backwards, so as to be at liberty to demolish
the palisades. Then entering without difficulty,
they found the Indians formed behind barricades
in the streets ; but they were so embarrassed
by their own numbers, that their resistance
had little or no effects. They made their last effort
in an open space about the center of the town,
from whence, however, they were soon repulsed,
and fled to the woods in great disorder ; and Cortes
would not follow the pursuit, that his men might

K 4 have



ico THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

have time to refresh themselves, and the fugitives
an opportunity to sue for peace. In this manner
did the Spaniards make themselves mailers of tobacco,
which was well stored with provisions, tho 5
the Indians had removed their families and effects;
and the conquest did not coll the life of one Christian,
yet fourteen or fifteen were wounded : whereas
the Indians lost a confiderable number. The
troops were lodged that night in three temples, and
tho next day the country appeared quite deferred,
and not the least sign of an enemy appeared, every
place being filent and solitary, Kernan began to
be suspicious of this stillness; and his apprehensions
were confirmed, when he understood that
Melchior his interpreter, who came from Cuba,
had deferred to the barbarians, and doubtless discovered
the small number of the Spaniards. In
this interval, he detached, by different routs, Pedro
de Alvarado, and Francisco de Lugo, each having
an hundred men, to view the country, wish orders
to retire if they should find any army in the field.
Francisco de Lugo, after an hours march, fell into
an ambuscade, and was attacked on all Tides with
such fury, that he was obliged to form his small
body into an hollow square, and must certainly have
been overpowered by the numbers of the enemy,
had not Alvarado heard the report of the fire-arms
and hastened to his assistance, after having detached
an Indian of Cuba to apprize Cortes of his situ
action. Perceiving, as he advanced, the distress of
de Lugo, whose men were by this time quite fatigued,
he fell upon the enemy with such resolution,
that they fled in the utmost consternation at
this unexpected attack. Yet, when they recovered
of their surprize, they formed again, in order
to obstruct: the retreat of the two captains,
who being joined, and a little refreshed with rest,
were obliged to cut their wav through a vast multitude



THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 201

tide of barbarians, that rolled forwards and backwards
like the waves of the sea, until Cortes appeared
at a distance marching to the relief of his
men ; then the Indians dispersed, leaving the field
free to the Spaniards, eleven of whom were wounded,
and of these two died ; and this, at that time,
was counted a very confiderable lost.

Some prisoners that were taken, being examined
separately by Jerom de Aguilar, agreed in affirming
that all the caciques of the neighbouring countries
were summoned to the assistance of the inhabitants
of Tabasco, and that next day a very powerful
army would take the field, to destroy the Spaniards
at once. In consequence of this intelligence, Cortes,
calling a council of his captains, communicated
what he had learned, and desired their advice, after
he had represented the weakness and ignorance of
the enemy, and the ill consequence of turning their
backs upon the barbarians, who would not fail to
report such a disgraceful shep, and inspire a contempt
of them in that country to which they were going.
AH the officers agreeing that it was absolutely necessary
to stay and subdue these people, Cortes ordered
the wounded men to be carried on board, the
horses to be landed, the artillery to be in readiness,
and every thing in order by next morning, which
was the feast of the Annunciation. At day-break
the men heard mass, then giving the command of
the infantry to Diego de Ordaz, he himself and
the other commanders mounted on horseback, and
marched with the artillery, which moved but slowly,
because the ground was boggy and uneven, until
arriving at a place called Cynthia, about the distance
of a league from their quarters, they descried afar
off the Indian army, so numerous and extensive,
that the eye could not take it in. As the art of
war is almost the same in all the nations of New
Spain, we shall now describe the Indian manner of

K 5 marching


202 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

marching and engaging, by which the reader will
have a idea of their appearance through the whole
of this conquest.

Their chief weapons are bows and arrows, the
bow-firings being made of sinews of beasts, or
thongs of deer skin twilled, and their arrows, for
want of iron, headed with bones; they use like-wife
a kind of javelin, which sometimes they throw,
and sometimes manage as a pike, together with
long two-handed swords of wood edged with flints:
some of the strongest weild clubs pointed in the
same manner, and many sling stones with great
force and dexterity. T heir defensive arms, which
are worn by none but commanders and persons of
distinction, con fill of quilted cotton coats, ill-fitted
breast-plates and shields of wood or tortoiseshell,
adorned with plates of metal. The generality of
them are naked, their faces and bodies being painted
in various colours, in order to strike terror into
their enemies $ and their heads adorned with plumes
of feathers, raised up in the form of crowns, to
make them appear taller than they really are. Their
warlike instruments are pipes of large cane, conch-shells,
and drums made of the trunk of a tree hollowed,
which being beaten with a slick, yield -a
very disagreeable sound. Their battalions are
formed without any order, they have a body of
deserve to answer all emergencies, and they attack
with great fury and precipitation, making hideous
outcries to terrify their adversaries. Not but that
they are divided into companies, commanded by
their respective officers, who cannot, however,
govern them in an engagement, during which,
they obey nothing but the dictates of rage or
horror ; in consequence of which, they are equally
apt to charge and run away

Such was the army, or rather inundation of Indians
that now poured upon the Spaniards* whom

Cortes


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO, 203

Cortes ported under the shelter of a risings ground
that covered the rear, and having placed the artillery
to the greatest advantage, he advanced with
his fifteen horse into the center of a wood, from
whence he meant to Tally, and flank the enemy as
occasion should require.

The Indians, having marched up within a proper
distance, shot their arrows, and then attacked with
such ferocity and expedition, that the Spaniards, finding
their fire-arms and cross-bows unable to flop
their progress, had recourse to their swords, which
soon ranked with slaughter ; and as the enemy
pressed on, the artillery destroyed them by whole
companies: yet they continued obstinate or rather
desperate in their assault, concealing the damage
they suffered, by closing after the ball was part,
and drowning the groans and lamentations of the
wounded by dreadful outcries. Diego de Ordaz,
repairing to every part where his presence was required,
acquitted himself as a valiant soldier and judicious
captain ; but such was the number of the
foe, that his men could hardly stand their ground,
when Cortes fuddenlyrufhing from the wood, broke
through the thicker of their battalions, doing infinite
execution with his horse, the very sight of
which terrified the Indians, who, feeling themselves
wounded and trodden under foot by such dreadful
monsters, threw down their arms, and fled with
precipitation. Diego de Ordaz being sensible of what
was adding, from the weak resistance of their van,
which now began to face about, advanced with his
infantry, and charged this huge body with such resolution,
that he soon forced his way to the place
which Cortes and his captains had cleared of the
enemy, who retreated in good order, making a running
fight, until the Spaniards overtook them, and
then they fled in the utmost confusion, leaving
above eight hundred dead upon the spot. In

6 gaining


204 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

gaining this victory over forty thousand Indians*
two Spaniards were killed, and seventy wounded:
so that, in spite of envy, the action was truly worthy
of the honour which was afterwards done it, by
building a church in commemoration of it, dedicated
to the Lady of Vi dory, a name likewise bellowed
on the first town which the Spaniards built in
that province.


CHAP. V.

He makes peace with the cacique ; receives Donna Marina
in a present ; remarks ; coasts along to the
westward ; arrives at St. Juan de Ulna.

EXT day, Cortes ordered two or three Indian
officers, who were prisoners, to be
git before him, and perceiving their terror by
their countenances, received them courteously, and
set them at liberty, after having presented them with
feme trifles. This piece of humanity had such an
effect, that in a few hours several Indians came to
the quarters, leaded with Indian wheat, fowls, and
other provisions, as a present from the principal cacique
ofTabafco, who by these ambassadors made
proposals of peace; but Jerom de Aguilar observing
that these were mean persons, and that the custom
was to send people of the first rank upon such
occasions, Cortes, tho very desirous of peace, would
not admit them to, his presence, but sent them back
to their cacique, with a message, importing, that
if he desired his friendship, he muss send persons of
greater account to sollicit. The Indian chief, being
sensible of his error, sent next day thirty of
his principal men, adorned with their plumes and
jewels, and followed by a train of Indians, who carried
another present to the Christian general. Cortes
believing it was necessary, on this occasion, to

lay



brou


"THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 205

lay aside his natural affability, assumed a grave and
severe aspect; and, being attended by his officers,
gave audience to those ambassadors, who having
first perfumed him with great submission, made an
apology for the war, and sued for peace with the
most earnest entreaties: Having listened with an
affected reserve, he explained the cause he had to
be displeased at their conduct, and then condescending
to grant their request, presented them with a
few baubles, so that they returned extremely well
satisfied with the issue of their negotiation. Cortes
was afterwards visited by the cacique in person, attended
by all his officers and relations, and followed
by a present of cotton-cloths, plumes, and some
pieces of low gold, of admirable workmanship. He
was received with open arms, and peace being reestablished,
he, to show his confidence in Herman,
ordered his subjects to return with their families to
Tabasco, and obey the Christians in everything
they should command. Next day he returned with
a present of Indian women to serve the Christians,
in dressing all sorts of victuals, and making bread
of Indian wheat: among these was one of extraordinary
beauty, who was afterwards baptized by the
name of Marina, and proved very serviceable in the
conquest of Mexico, as we shall see in the sequel.
It was now that Cortes told the cacique and his
chiefs, that he was subjects, and officer of a most
powerful prince, to whom, if they would become
iubje £ls, he would make them happy, and convert
them to the Christian religion, of which they were
at present utterly ignorant. The Indians answered,
that they should think themselves happy in obeying
a monarch, whose greatness and power appeared so
conspicuous in the valour of his subjects: but, in
the article of religion, they were more reserved,
and seemed much more inclined to worship a new
deity, than to forsake any of their own gods.


The


2o6 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

The pilots now pressed the departure of the fleet,
which might be endangered by a longer slay in that
place; and Palm-sunday being the day appointed for
embarking, Cortes ordered an altar to be raised,
and covered with boughs in form of a chapel, where
he intended to celebrate that festival before he should
go on board. Mean while the Indians affixed his
men in all things with the mod: officious diligence,
the cacique with his chaplains always attending the
Spanifh general; and on Sunday morning, the
boughs being blessed with the usual solemnity, were
distributed among the soldiers, who marched in processions
with such marks of modesty and devotion,
as very deeply steeled the Indian spectators, who
exclaimed in their own language, 46 This mud be
is * a great God, to whom such valiant men pay so
64 much respect.” Mass being sung, Cortes took
leave of his Indian friends, after having confirmed
the peace in the mod solemn manner : and next day
setting sail, coated along to the edward, till he
came in sight of the province of Guazacoalco, and
had a view of the island of sacrifices. Without
flaying to put in at Rio de Banners, he continued
his course, and cn MaunJay Thursday, at noon,
arrived at St. Juan de UJua, where he no sooner
came to an anchor between the island and the main,
than he saw two large canoes, called piraguas, coming
towards the ships, with Indians in them, from
the neighbouring coat: when they were within a
small defence of the admiral, they began to speak
in a language which Aguilar did not underhand, a
circumstance that very much chagrined Cortes, who
foresaw that the want of an interpreter would be a
great obstacle to the success of his enterprize. The
Indian woman, whom we shall henceforth call Donna
Marina, guessing his concern by his looks, told
Aguilar, in the Yucatan tongue, that those people
spoke the Mexican language, and desired audience


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 207

of the general, on the part of the governor of that
province ; and Cortes, overjoyed to find (he understood
their meaning, desired them to come on board
and deliver their message. This woman, who, according
to report, was daughter of a cacique, had
been by some accident in life carried away in her
youth, to a place upon the confines of Yucatan,
kept by a Mexican garrison, where she learned
the language of that people, and afterwards, <
either by sale or the fate of war, became Have to
the cacique of Tabasco, who made a present of her
to Cortes, and he confirmed her in his interest, by
making her his concubine. She was a person of
rare endowments, in a little time learned the Castilian
tongue, and bore a son to the conqueror of
Mexico, who was called Don Martin Cortes, and
created a knight of St. Jago, in consideration of the
nobility of his mother's birth. This lady, tho not
as yet acquainted with the language of Spain, interpreted
to Aguilar, in the Yucatan tongue, what
the Mexicans said, and he imparted it to Cortes in
the Castilian. By means of this double interpretation,
they gave him to understand, that Pilate
governor, and Teutile captain-general of that province
for the emperor Montezuma, sent them to learn
his intention upon the coast, and to offer what assistance
he should want for the prosecution of his
voyage. Cortes having presented them with a few
baubles, and treated them with a Spanifh collation,
told them, he came as a friend, and would meet the
two governors, from whom he hoped to receive
the same civility which had been experienced by
some of his nation the preceeding year.


CHAP,



208 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO;


CHAP. VI.

He lands and puts his men under cover; gives audience
to two Mexican officers ; sends a present to Mote -
%uma ; receives a meffagefrom that prince .

N EXT day, in the morning, being Good-friday,
the Spaniards being landed with their
horses and artillery, Cortes ordered the soldiers to
cut fascines and fortify their camp, within which
was built a sufficient number of huts or barracks, to
shelter them from the excessive heat of the fun ; and
in a little time they were all under cover; for Textile
sent to their assistance a great number of Indians,
who were of great service in cutting flakes
with their flinty tools, and afterwards in driving and
interweaving them with boughs and leaves of palm-trees.
They likewise brought plenty of provisions
and some cotton cloths to cover the barracks in
which the officers lodged. This civility on the
part of Teutile, who with a confiderabie body of
troops was employed in establishing the dominion
of Montezuma in some places newly conquered, was
in a good measure owing to the terror created among
the Indians by the success of the Spaniards at tobacco,
against such a vast army of their countrymen.

Cortes, notwithstanding his friendly intercourse
with the natives, still kept himself upon his guard,
and nothing extraordinary happened till Easter-day
in the morning, when he was visited by Teutile
and Pilate, attended by a very great retinue, and
Herman received them with equal state, surrounded
by his officers and soldiers. The first compliments
being pall, he conduced them to a great barrack
that served as a chapel, it being the hour of divine
service, and mass was celebrated with all possible
solemnity, to the astonishment of the Indians, which
indeed bad all the air of devotion. After the worse


CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 209

ship, they returned to the generals quarters, where
they were entertained with great plenty and ostentation;
and the rep aft being ended, Cortes, by his
interpreters told them, that his errand was to treat
with the emperor Montezuma, on the part of Don
Carlos of Austria, monarch of the east, touching
affairs of great importance, not only to his own
person and estate, but likewise to the welfare of
his subjects; for which reason it was necessary that
he (Cortes) should appear before his royal presence,
to which he hoped he should be admitted, with all
the civility and respects due to the greatness of the
king whose minister he was.

His guests, hearing this declaration, changed countenance,
and, before they returned an answer, ordered
their Indians to bring in a present of provisions,
fine cloths, feathers of various colours, and
a great box containing divers pieces of gold curiously
wrought : then, turning to Cortes, Teutile
begged he would accept that small present from two
slaves of Montezuma, who had orders to entertain
such strangers as should come upon the coast : but
he desired he would not think of prosecuting his
design, for it would be no easy matter to speak with
their prince; and he advised him as a friend to de-fist,
before experience should make him sensible of
the danger attending such an enterprize. Cortes replied,
with some warmth, that ministers ought not
to take upon themselves to advise in such cases,
without express order; that their hisses was to
inform Montezuma of his arrival, his embassy, and
his determined resolution to see him : for he would
never leave the country with dishonour to the king
whom he represented.

The Indian chiefs, confounded at his boldness,
earnestly entreated him to continue in his quarters,
until the return of a messenger from Montezuma,
and in the mean time they would supply him withall




dio THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

all things necessary for the support of his soldiers.
During this conference, some Mexican painters
were employed in drawing upon cotton cloths, which
they had brought ready primed for the purpose, the
ships, soldiers, arms, horses and artillery, by way
of information to Montezuma : for they knew not
the use of letters; and this was the only method they
had of transmitting ideas without the help of speech*
To render their descriptions more intelligible, they
placed here and there certain characters that seemed
to explain the picture, which was not at all contemptible,
either for colouring or design: and in this
manner they preserved the remembrance of antiquities,
and handed down to posterity the annals of
their kings.

Cortes perceiving their work, and being informed
of their intention, observed that those still images
wanted aCtion, to express the valour of his fol
tiers, and therefore ordered his men to be exercised,
and the artillery loaded, while he and his captains,
mounting their horses, began to skirmish in a martial
manner, to the amazement of the Indians, who
seeing such fierce animals lo obedient to their riders,
thought there was something supernatural in those
who could manage them with so much ease and dexterity
; but when, in consequence of a ngnal, fir ft
the small arms were fired, and then the artillery discharged,
they were so confounded and dismayed
at the noise, the fire and the smoke, that some fell
down upon the ground, others fled in the utmost
fear, and those who flay'd were fixed to the spot
with terror and admiration. Cortes immediately
dissipated their apprehension, by alluring them that
these were only diversions from which they would
receive no injury; upon which the painters began
to represent the Spaniards drawn up, the horses in
the attitudes of their exercise, and the artillery sewing
forth fire and smoke ; while Herman reconciled




THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 211

ed the two governors to his barrack, where he
gave them feme small Spanifh jewels, and prepared
a present for Montezuma, consisting of several polished
mirrors, an holland shirt, a cap of crimson velvet,
adorned with a gold medal, and a tapestry
chair, which the Indians looked upon as a fit pre
sent for an emperor.

Teutile and Piipatoe, seemingly well pleased with
this instance of the Spaniards magnificence, took
their leave j and, retiring to a small distance, held a
consultation, in which it was agreed, that Piipatoe
should remain in that place to observe the actions of
the Grangers, and immediately his men began to
build barracks, so that in a few hours a confiderable
village appeared upon the plain ; and that this shep
might not give umbrage, he sent to inform Cortes,
that his reason for slaying there was, that he might
beat hand to take care of his entertainment, and supply
his troops with provisions. Tho 5 Herman guessed
their real intention, he connived at their dissimulation,
from which he drew such advantages; for,
the fear of being detected rendered them more punctual
in furnishing him with all necessaries. As for
Teutile, he proceeded to his own quarters, from
whence he dispatched messengers to Montezuma,
with an account of what had happened, the pictures
that were drawn by his order, and the present of
Cortes, desiring further orders with all expedition.
The king of Mexico was provided with a great
number of couriers, distributed along the principal
roads, chosen from the swiftest of the Indians,
who were bred up to that occupation from their
childhood. Rewards were allotted out of the public
treasury to those who first arrived at the appointed
place ; their chief school was the principal temple
of Mexico, where the idol flood, on the top of an
hundred and twenty stone steps, and the reward
was adjudged to him who first arrived at its feet.

These


212 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO,

These couriers Were relieved at every town, like
our post-horses, and made the greater speed, because
each was succeeded by another before he was tired,
so that the velocity of their career never flagged.
Of this there can be no better demonstration than
the return of the answer from Mexico, which arrived
in seven days, tho the distance by the shortest
road, from that city to Juan de Ulua, amounts to
sixty leagues. Motezuma’s message was brought
by Teutile, to the Spanifh quarters, together with a
present from that prince, which loaded the shoulders
of an hundred Indians, consisting of very fine cotton
robes, a quantity of plumes and curiosities
made of feathers, so artificially disposed as to represent
natural figures with the most beautiful imitation,
a great number of bows, arrows, and targets,
a large plate of embodied gold representing the fun,
another of silver exhibiting the moon, and a confiderable
lore of precious stones, collars of gold, rings,
pendants, and other ornaments of the same metal,
in the forms of birds and beasts, of admirable workmanship.
These articles being displayed in order,
upon masts made of palm-tree leaves, Teutile, turning
to Cortes, told him by the interpreters, that the
great emperor Montezuma had sent him these things
in return for his present, and as a token of his regard
for his monarch ; but that it was neither convenient
nor possible for him, at that time, to admit
him to his court. This refusal Teutile endeavoured
to soften, by representing the badness of the roads,
and the savage nature of the Indians, who would
take up arms to obfirudl his march : but Herman,
who would not be so easily repulsed, received the
present with marks of great respects, and answered,
in a resolute tone, that how loth soever he might be
to be wanting in obedience to Montezuma, he could
not dishonour his king so much, as to return without
having fulfilled his orders $ and therefore he was

obliged


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO, 2 r $

obliged to Insist upon being admitted to an audience.
He then dismissed them with another present,
promising to wait a certain time in that place
for Motezuma’s second answer to his demand ; and
alluring them he should be very much concerned at
being obliged to advance farther without his permission.
In this interval, he ordered Francisco de
Montejo to cruize for ten days, with two vessels,
along the coast, in the same course he had followed
the year before with Grijalva, to take a view of
the towns without landing, to search for some harbour
or bay in which the fleet might be better sheltered
from the north winds than in its present riding,
and to look out for a piece of ground where
the men could be more comfortably lodged than in
their first quarters, which, being on a sandy soil, expo
fed them to the reflected heat of the fun, and the
persecution of mosquitoes or gnats, which were extremely
troublesome*

The perseverance of Cortes in his demand incensed
Montezuma, who, in the hrs: transports of
his wrath, proposed to destroy at once those info-lent
Grangers, who presumed to dispute his will;
but, when his passion subsided, he changed his resolution,
and his rage was succeeded by farrow and
consternation: he held private councils with his ministers
and relations, public sacrifices were made in
the temples, and he discovered, in ail his behaviour,
such marks of disturbance and confusion, that the
people began to talk, without reserve, of the approaching
ruin of the empire, and of the signs and
presages by which it had been foreknown.


CHAP,


2H THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.


CHAP, vir.

Montezuma ts perplexed by the perseverance of Cortes, to
whom he sends a second present , with an order to
leave the coal. Herman artfully quiets the murmurs
of his people .

M Mexico was then in the zenith fits glory,
comprehending all the known provinces
and countries in North America, and many petty
kings or cacique?, who were tributaries to Mote
zama, whole dominions extended above five hundred
leagues from east to west, and in some places
two hundred from north to south, the whole being
populous, rich and fertile. This empire, from a
very small beginning, had risen to such a pitch of
power and greatness, in the space of one hundred
and thirty years; during which the Mexicans had
subdued all their neighbours. They were first governed
by a military chief, but, in the progress of
their conquests, they chose a king, and their choice
always fell upon the person of the most distinguished
valour, without any other regard to hereditary
succession, than that of preferring the blood royal,
when it was not excelled by the merit of any other
competitor. At first, justice was the rule of their
conduct, but, as their dominion and power increased,
they degenerated into tyranny and oppression.

Montezuma, the second of that name, and eleventh
king of Mexico, w 7 as of the blood royal, and in his
youth signalized himself in the war, so as to acquire
the reputation of a valiant captain, which inspired
him with the ambition of ascending dethrone;
accordingly, when he returned to court, and tho
naturally of a surly disposition, (which is implied by
his name) he exerted the arts of popularity, and dis*
sembled a zeal for religion, with such success, that,
when the throne became vacant, he was unanimously


CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 2 r 5

ly elected sovereign. Having thus accomplished
his aim, he laid aside his affability, altered the regulations
of the court, compelled the nobles to
serve him in the most menial offices, and inspired
the people with such terror and awe, that they durst
not look up in his presence, but considered his person
as sacred and supernatural. His tyranny and
pride produced many rebellions: but none of the revolting
provinces could withstand the power of his
arms, except Michoacan, Tlafcala, andTebeaea;
and these he said he would not subdue, because they
supplied him with captives, for sacrifices to his gods.
When Cortes arrived on his coast he had reigned

O

fourteen years, the last of which he palled in anxiety
and consternation : for, immediately after Juan
de Grijalva’s expedition, he was terrified with portents
and prodigies, which were supposed to presage
the ruin of his empire. A dreadful comet appeared
in the night, frightful exhalations flashed in the day,
the lake of Mexico overflowed its banks with great
impetuosity, tho the weather was calm and dry, and
the people imagined they heard lamentable voices in
the air, foretelling the end of the monarchy. The
Indians themselves related other circumstances more
astonishing, which seem to have had no other foundation
than their own fear and superstition. nevertheless,
these signs and portents, some of which
were perhaps invented and magnified by the disaffected,
made very deep impressions on the mind of
Montezuma, and dismayed his counsellors to such
a degree, that when the second message arrived from
Cortes, they concluded themselves undone, and were
utterly distracted in their opinions. Some proposed
that the Grangers Should be treated as enemies to
their gods and to their country; concluding, that the
portents were sent as warnings to prevent their ruin,
by putting them upon their guard: others, either
from fear or moderation,, were of opinion that the

Spaniards


216 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

Spaniards ought to be received with reverence and
respect, as creatures of an higher species, who had
already given such fatal proofs of amazing courage,
and invincible power, supported by the thunder and
lightening of heaven. Montezuma, having heard their
debates, resolved to follow a middle course, by sending
another present to Cortes, with a message, commanding
him to leave the coast; and, in case of his
refusal, to raise a powerful army, and aft against
him with his whole power.

While the court of Mexico was employed in
these deliberations, Francisco de Montejo, whom
Cortes had sent to view the coast, returned from
his cruize, having found, at the distance of some
leagues to the northward, a town called Quiabiftau,
situated in a fertile soil, well cultivated, near a large
bay, where the (hips could ride in safety ; so that
Herman began to think of removing his quarters to
that place, when his resolution was forth present
suspended, by the arrival of Teutile and his captains,
who came with their little perfuming pans,
burning gum-copal; and, after the ceremonies of fumigation,
produced Motezuma’s second present,
consisting of the same particulars that constituted the
first, tho in smaller quantity; together with four
green stones like emeralds, to he preferred to the
king of Spain, as jewels of inestimable value. These
articles were delivered, with an express injunction,
commanding Cortes and his followers to be gone
without delay : and the Spaniard still instilling upon
making new efforts to see their monarch in person,
Teutile started up with marks of anger and confusion,
and, telling him, that hitherto Montezuma had
treated him as a guess, but that it would be his
own fault if he should find himself used as an enemy,
turned his back, without waiting for an answer,
and went hastily away. Cries, in consequence
of this abrupt departure, ordered the guards

to


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 217

to be doubled, and next day found a confiderable
alteration, that did not fail to disturb his men ; for*
the Indians that used to supply them with provision
were gone, and not a soul appeared in all the country.
The apprehension of want produced dissatisfaction
among the soldiers, which was fomented by .
some friends of Diego Velasquez, who insinuated,
that Cortes ambitiously pursued a rash design, which
mu ft undoubtedly end in the destruction of himself
and all his followers, unless they should return to
Cuba, to refit the fleet, and reinforce the army, so
as to be less unequal to such an important enterprize*
Cortes was not ignorant of their murmurs, but learning
from his friends that the majority was on his
side, he (hewed himself to the malcontents, in the
name of whom Diego de Ordaz, with some warmth
and disrespect remonstrated, that, as their force was
by no means proportioned to the design of subduing
a mighty empire, it was now high time to return
to Cuba, where they might be reinforced by
Diego de Velasquez, whole province it was to take
proper measures for the success of such an enterprize.


Herman, tho extremely provoked at the insolent
manner of this address, replied with great composure,
that those who complained must be weary of
good fortune ; inasmuch as they had hitherto met
with an uninterrupted series of success, above what
their warmed: hopes could have presaged ; witness,
their prosperity at Cozumel, and their victory at
Tabasco: nevertheless, he had no inclination to
put the leal constraint upon his soldiers, and, since
they refused to proceed, he would immediately prepare
for their return to Cuba. After this declaration,
which could not fail to silence Diego de Or
daz and his party, he actually published his intended
return, and ord red the captains to embark with
their respective companies, that they might be ready
Vol, I. L to



212 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

to sail next morning; but while this pretended resolution
was made public, his emissaries, according
to the directions they had received, began to exert
their eloquence among the soldiers, observing, with
affected warmth, that they had been deceived by
Herman Cortes, who, contrary to his promise of
making a settlement in that country, was now on
the point of deserting it, notwithstanding their unexpended
success : they therefore suggested, that if
he had a mind to abandon the enterprize, he might
retire with his own friends, and they would soon
find another gentleman who would aflame the como



and. These insinuations were so artfully diffused,
as to bring over many of those who had espoused the
contrary faction ; and the clamour increased to such
a degree, that some of Hernan’s friends were obliged
to interpose, with a view to appease the disturbance
they themselves had raised. They commended
the spirit of the men, and, without giving
them time to cool, led them directly to Cortes, to
whom they represented, that the soldiers were ready
to mutiny, on account of the order he had given
for re-embarkation, which they supposed was contrary
to the advice of the other captains, and altogether
unworthy of Spanifh courage, which no danger
or difficulties ought to overcome. Cortes, overjoyed
at the good efiedf of his expedient, answered,
that he had been mihnformedby some of those who
were principally concerned In the success of the undertaking
; for they had assured him, that all the
men loudly exclaimed against the prosecution of the
salerne; but, as he had taken the resolution of returning
to please his soldiers, he would now day
with much more satisfaction, since he found them
so well disposed for the service of their king and country
: yet as war was an employment altogether unfit
for those who exercised it contrary to their own
inclinations, he would immediately provide vessels

and


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 219

and provisions for transporting to Cuba, all those who
did not chuse to follow his fortune. 'I his reply was
received with universal acclamation and applause;
and those who were dissatisfied, either wholly laid
aside, or concealed their discontent.

CHAP. VIII.

Cortes males a settlement , to which he gives the name
of fill-rica de la Vera Cruz; receives a new com*
mission from this corporation ; sends the Ships round
to ffuiabifian, for which place he begins his march
hy land ; enters Zempoalla , and makes an alliance
with the cacique.

A T this period, Cortes was visited by five deputies
from the cacique of Zempoalla, a
neighbouring province, with proffers of friendship
and alliance, which Cortes willingly embraced, asa
particular favour of heaven, arriving at a time
when he was abandoned by the Mexicans; and his
satisfaction was still the greater, when he understood
that Zempoalla was in the road to that place whither
he intended to remove his quarters: nay, he
was frill better pleased upon hearing that the Zem-
pallas, tno’ tributary to Montezuma, detested that
prince for his cruelty and pride, because he foresaw
that he should be able to make a party of this distressed
people, that would facilitate his future such
cess. He therefore dismissed the deputies with presents,
and professions of friendship to the cacique,
whom he promised to visit in his route to .


In the mean time having, in concert with his
friends, laid the plan of a corporation, to be established
on this continent, Alonzo Hernandez Pore
and Francisco Montejo, were appointed
alcaldes 5 Alonzo Davila, Pedro and Alonzo de

JL 2 Alvarado*






2.20 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

Alvarado, and Gonzalo de Sandoval, were condition
ted regions; the chief alguazil, and procurator*
general, were Juan de Efcalante and Francisco Alvarez
Chico, These appointed a clerk of the council,
with other inferior officers; and, having taken
the accustomed oath, to according to the dilates
of judice, and their duty to God and the king, they
began to exercise their functions with the usual foe
lenity, and distinguished their new settlement by
the name of Villa-rica de la Vera Cruz, a title which
preserved in the place where it was afterwards fixed,
for as yet the corporation was ambulatory.

The intention of Cortes, in establishing this community,
was to dived himself of that uneasy dependence
upon Velasquez, which he hitherto sustained
; and therefore on the very next morning after
their institution, the council being assembled, on
pretence of consulting about the augmentation and
preservation of the new settlement, Cortes desired
admittance, and having paid his respects to the magi
tracy, observed, that, before they proceeded to the
consideration of other affairs, it would be nectary
to give a fan £t ion to the authority of that command
upon which all their hopes depended. He frankly
owned, that he had no other title than that which
he derived from Velasquez, and as they knew he no
longer obeyed his principal, he would not pretend
to conceal the defect in his constitution, but was
resolved to resign his command into their hands;
that, as representatives of his majesty, they might
freely proceed to the election of a leader : and, for
his own part, as he had nothing at heart so much as
the success of the undertaking, he could, with perfect
resignation, take up a soldiers pike with that
hand which laid down the daff of a general. So saying,
he laid his commission upon the table, kissed
the truncheon, and delivering it to the alcaldes, retired
to his barrack in the capacity of a private man.

The






THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. zzt

The council, as the affair bad been preconceived,
unanimous admitted of his resignation, but with
the same unanimity voted that he should be appointed
general of the army, with a new commission
made out by them in the king's name, to be inforce
until they (hould know his majesty's pleasure.
The people, being called together by a public crier,
were made acquainted with the resignation of Cortes,
and the resolution of the council ; at which
they expressed uncommon joy, and immediately
proceeded to Hernan’s quarters, with the alcaldes
and regions, who gave him to understand, that the
town of Villa-rica had, in the name of the king
Don Carlos, and with the consent and approbation
of the inhabitants, in full council, chosen and appointed
him general of the army in New Spain ; and,
in case it were necessary, did require and command
him to exercise the functions of that flat ion, for the
public good, and his majesty's service.

Herman accepted this command with great respects,
and now began to rule with inward satisfaction
and security, which had a good effect upon
the discipline of the soldiers. But the friends of Velasquez
resented this alteration in a very indiscreet
manner: they endeavoured to invalidate the authority
of the council, openly inveighed against the
ambition of Cortes, talked contemptuous of those
who adhered to his interest; and, with the breath
of Dander industrious communicated, began to
kindle a Dame of dissension, that would have proved
of the worst consequences to the expedition, had
not Cortes, finding more moderate expedients ineffectual,
extinguished it at once, by a Dep that argued
his uncommon fortitude and penetration. He
ordered Diego de Ordaz, Pedro Efcudero, and
Juan Velasquez de Leon to be publicly seized, carried
on board the (hips, and put in irons; and perceiving
that their imprisonment struck a terror into

L 3 the




222 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

the troops, he declared, in a resolute tone, that he
would proceed again them even unto death, as seditious
persons, and perturbations of the public peace.
In this affection of severity he continued some days,
during which he would suffer no person to visit the
prisoners ; but afterwards their friends were admitted
to their conversation, and among the rest fbrne
of his confidents, who found means to reduce them
to reason : so that he suffered himself to be pacified,
and so effectually conciliated their sessions, that
in the sequel they flood by him with unshaken fidelity
and friendship.

Cortes, having’made the proper dispositions, ordered
the ships to sail for the bay of Quiabiflan, whither
he resolved to march by land; and, setting out
according 7 , he, in a few hours, reached the river
of Zempoalla, which the soldiers palled in canoes,
the horses being obliged to swim : then the army arrived
at some houses in this districts, which they
found entirely abandoned and unfurnished, tho the
natives had left in their temples several idols, and
instruments edged with flint, together with the miserable
remains of human victims, which at once
moved horror and companion. Here likewise they
saw three or four Mexican books, made of a long
skin or varnished cloth folded in leaves, upon which
were painted hieroglyphics, and characters explaining
the mysteries of their religion.

The Spaniards, having placed proper guards and
sentinels, palled the night in these empty houses;
and next day, continuing their march along the
moll beaten road that turned off to the west ward,
leading farther from the shore, they saw not one per
son during the whole morning, until, entering some
very delightful meadows, they were met by twelve
Indians, loaded with hens and bread, as a present
to Cortes from the cacique of Zempoalla, who invited
him to his town, where he had provided quarters





THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 223

terms for the Christians. Six of these Indians were
dismissed, with an acknowledgment for the hospitality
of their chief, and Cortes detained the reil as
guides to the town, which they told him was at
the distance of a days journey. That night they
halted in a small village, where they were kindly
entertained by the poor inhabitants; and in the
morning they marched forward for Zempoalla, according
to the direction of the guides ; tho their motions
were performed with all imaginable caution,
as Cortes Hill doubted the sincerity of the Indians.
In the evening they approached the town, from
which twenty Indians, well dressed after their fashion,
came forth to receive Cortes, with an apology
from their cacique, who was kept at home by a
natural infirmity. This was a large city, affording
a beautiful prospers, situated between two rivers,
and built of stone, and the houses were whitened
with a sort of bright shining lime, which exhibited
such a noble view at a distance, that one of the
scouts returned to the army, crying aloud, that the
walls were of shiver. The squares and streets were
filled with an innumerable multitude, drawn together
by curiosity ; and when the Spaniards entered,
the cacique appeared at the gate of his palace, supported
by some of his nobles; for he was so monstrously
fat, that he could neither slant nor move.
He was covered with a mantle of fine cotton, adorned
with various jewels; he wore pendants in his
ears and lips, and when he was brought forwards
to salute Cortes, his appearance was so unweildy
and ridiculous, that the Spaniards could hardly
maintain that gravity which is the characteristic of
their nation However, he spoke to the purpose ;
and having welcomed his valiant guest with well-turned
compliments of respects, he desired Cortes
to repose himself after his journey, and he would
visit him in his lodgings, where

L 4


they would convert



224 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

verse more at leisure about their mutual interest
The troops immediately retired to the quarters which
he had'provi ded in square courts, furnished with a
number of apartments, where they found plenty
of provision and all necessaries: then the cacique
sent a present to the general, of gold and other curiosities,
to the value of 2000 pefoes; and afterwards
came in person with a splendid retinue, carried
in a chair, on the shoulders of the chief of his
family. Cortes went forth to receive him, attended
by his captains 5 and, retiring to a private apartment
with him and the interpreters, expatiated
upon the grandeur of the Spanifh king, whose ambassador
he was; and told him, the design of his
coming was to redress wrongs, punish violence, and
espouse the cause of justice and reason. He artfully
touched this firing, in order to wake the Indians re
fen t men t against Montezuma, that he might gradually
discover what advantages could be reaped from
his indignation: and indeed the words were no sooner
pronounced, than the cacique changed colour:
’ he began to sigh like one afraid of disclosing his ass
but, his resentment prevailing over every
other consideration, he broke forth into bitter lamentations,
importing, that he and all the neighbouring
caciques groaned under the tyranny of Mo
tezuma, who oppressed his tributaries, and caused
himself to be adored by his subjects, as if he was
one of their gods. Not that he wished to engage
Cortes in a quarrel with such a powerful emperor,
whose power was irresistible; but be could not help
complaining to his friends, of the miserable oppression
he was obliged to endure. Herman gave him
to underhand, that, in a righteous cause, the Spaniards
would little regard the power of Montezuma ;
but at present he was on his march to Quiabiflan,
where those who were injured and oppressed should
find him always ready to redress their wrongs 5 and,

in


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 22$

in the mean time, he might aflurehis friends and confederates,
that he would willingly undertake their defence.
This was thefubjedlof theirconverfation: after
which the cacique took his leave, extremely well satisfied
; nor was Cortes less pleased at the prospect of
such a powerful alliance, with which he hoped to
strengthen his interest in the prosecution of his
scheme.


C H A P. IX.

He proceeds to fhilabifan ; Selves Motezwnd’s commissaries
; makes a strong confederacy of the Indian
caciques ; builds the town of Vera Cruz , and receives
an embassy from the emperor of Mexico .



HEN the army was ready to march, they
found four hundred Indians of burthen,
called tameness, provided by the cacique, as porters
to carry the baggage and provisions, and help to conduct
the artillery. The country was pleasant and
fertile, partly covered with trees, and partly cultivated
in cornfields. They flayed all night at a little
village that was deserted; and next morning they
arrived at Quiabiflan, strongly situated upon a rocky
eminence, that rendered it very difficult of access :
nevertheless they entered without opposition; nor
did they perceive any person in the place, until, coming
to a square in which were the temples, fifteen
Indians handsomely defied came out with their perfuming
pans, making abundance of ahjedl cringes,
and marks of submission which denoted fear. Cortes
ordered them to be civilly treated, and prefer ted
with some glass beads; fothat, recovering their (pints,
they informed him that the cacique had withdrawn
himself, in order to avoid a war ; as he neither
chose to deny them admittance, nor trull his

L 5



226 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO;

person to armed troops whom he did not know 5
and that the inhabitants could not be prevented from
following his example. As for themselves, they
had staid to know the intention of the Grangers ; and
now they were convinced of their quiet and honourable
disposition, they would communicate the news
to the fugitives, who might return peaceably to their
houses, and serve them with all fidelity and obedience:
accordingly, some families came back that
very night, and in a little time the town was filled
with its inhabitants. In a few days the cacique himself
returned, and was introduced by the cacique of
■Zempoalla, who made an handsome excuse for his
friend ; and the conversation turned upon the despotism
of Montezuma, again whom he of Quiabiflan
inveighed with great bitterness, as a monster, who
not only impoverished them by the imposition of
taxes, but likewise robbed them of their wives and
daughters, with whose blood he stained the altars
of his gods, after having sacrificed their honour to
more abominable purposes. Their discourse was
interrupted by the entrance of three Indians, who
having whispered something in a seeming fright, the
two caciques changed colour, and hastily retired
with marks of terror and confusion: their disorder
was owing to the arrival of six commissaries of Mo
tezuma, who palled the quarters of the Spaniards
in great pomp, adorned with plumes and pendants,
and attended by a number of servants, or inferior officers,
who cooled them with fans made of feathers.
Cortes went to the gate to see them, while they
proceeded with such insolent and contemptuous
looks, that the soldiers w 7 ere provoked, and would
have chastised them on the spot, had not they been
restrained by the general, v» 7 ho contented himself
with sending Donna Marina, properly guarded, to
know the cause of their coming. By these means
he understood, that, after having seated themselves

in


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 227

in the town-house, they summoned the caciques to
appear before them, and, reprimanding them sharply
for entertaining ftrangerswho were enemies to their
king, they demanded, over and above the ordinary
tribute, twenty Indians to be sacrificed to the gods,
as an atonement for the crime they had committed.


Cortes, having received this intelligence, ordered
some soldiers to bring the caciques to his pre
fence, when, telling them that he knew the inhuman
purpose of the commissaries, which he would
not suffer them to obey, he commanded them without
fail to assemble their people and seize the Mexicans,
and leave the rest to his concur and discretion.
At first they were terrified at the proposal,
with which they absolutely refused to comply, until
Cortes repeating his order with a resolute and
peremptory tone, they actually went and executed
his command upon the ministers of Montezuma,
whom they confined by the necks in a kind of wooden
pillory, from which they buffered equal pain and'
disgrace, to the infinite satisfaction of the people,
who demanded that they might either die the death
of traitors, or be sacrificed to the gods without delay.
Cortes, however, would not grant their request,
tho it was enforced by the caciques ; but,,
having secured them with a guard of Spanish soldiers,
retired to his quarters, in order to contrive some
method for extricating himself from the difficulty
in which he was involved. He was unwilling to
come to an open rupture with Montezuma, and he
thought it a point of the highest consequence to maintain
and augment the party which he had already
formed against that prince; and therefore, he resolved
to do something of which he could Snake a
merit with the Mexican emperor, withoutfgiving the
caciques any reason to think him cold or remiss in
their inter eft. In consequence of these reflexion,

L 6 he.


228 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO,

be, at midnight, sent privately for two of the prisoners,
and having treated them with great courtesy,
told them they were now at liberty, and as
they had received their freedom solely from him,
they might allure their prince, he would endeavour
to release the rest of their companions, and make
the caciques sensible of their misdemeanor; for, he
was desirous of peace, and of deserving, by his respectful
conduct, that civility from Montezuma, which
was due to the ambassador of such a mighty prince.
The Mexicans heard this declaration with equal
astonishment and pleasure; but, as they durftnotfet
out on their journey for fear of being killed or taken,
the Spanish soldiers conducted them to the bay,
and one of the boats convoyed them beyond the
district of Zempoalla. In the morning the caciques
came to Cortes, very much troubled at the
escape of the two prisoners, and he received the
news with signs of surprise and concern, blaming
their want of care and vigilance: but, that no accident
of that kind might happen for the future, he
laid, he would take the care upon himself of guarding
the rest, whom he forthwith ordered to he carried
on board of the fleet, where, by his private
directions, they were kindly entertained. Thus,
without losing the confidence of the caciques, he conferred
am obligation upon Montezuma, whose power
was so great, that he did not chuse wantonly to provoke
his resentment.

The moderation and beneficence of the Spaniards
towards their allies was quickly divulged among all
the neighbouring districts, and the caciques of Zem¬
poalla and Quiabiflan communicated to all their
friends the happiness they enjoyed under the protection
of those invincible people, who had delivered
them from slavery and imposition. The common
people believed the gods were come down to dart
lightening against Montezuma,; and the name of !i~


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO 22 $

berth sounded so charming in the ears of the oppressed,
that, in a few days, Cortes was visited at
by above thirty caciques of the mountain infight,
on which were numerous settlements of a ruff
ic people called Totonaques, who made their submission,
swore fealty to the king of Spain, and offered
to assails him with an incredible number of
armed Indians against the tyranny of Montezuma.

This confederacy being formed, and authenticated
in the most solemn manner, those chiefs retired
to their respective places of habitation. Herman Cortes
resolved to settle the corporation of Villa-rica
de la Vera Cruz, which hitherto had moved with
the army, tho under proper dissensions as a republic:
for this purpose he pitched upon a plain, between
Quiabiflan and the sea, of a fertile soil, well
watered, and abounding with timber, proper for
the purposes of building. They began, by laying
the foundation of a church, and the handicraft-men
among the Spaniards being assisted by the industry
and (kill of their Indian friends, the houses were
soon reared, and the town encompassed with a wall
of mud, sufficient to defend it against all methods
of attack used in that country.

Montezuma being informed that the cacique of
Zernpoalla, who was a suspected person, had admitted
the strangers into his town, resolved to assemble
his forces, not only to chastise this rebellious
tributary, but also to go in person against the
Spaniards, whom he destined as a sacrifice to his
gods: but his preparations for this enterprize were
prevented by the arrival of the two Indians whom
Cortes had released. These having given an account
of their imprisonment, and of the courteous
treatment and message they had received from
the Spanifh general, Motezuma’s anger was appeased,
and he determined to have recourse again
to the expedient of negotiation, and try to divert

Cortes


23° THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

Cortes from his design, by a new embassy and present
5 for, in the midst of his pride, he remembered
and trembled at the portentous signals of heaven,
and the unfavourable responses of the oracles which
he consulted.

The settlement and fortress of Vera Cruz was almost
perfected when this embassy was brought by
two nephews of the emperor, attended by four ancient
caciques, who served as counsellors to their
youth and inexperience. Their retinue was very
Splendid: the present, consisting of gold, feathers and
cotton, was worth two thousand pieces of eight y
and the message delivered to Cortes was to this effect
: That Montezuma, being informed of the insolence
of the two caciques who had committed such
an outrage upon his officers, resolved to come in
person with a powerful army to chastise them ; but,
as he was unwilling to break with the Spaniards, to
whose captain he was obliged for the release of his
two servants, he requested them to leave the territories
of his rebellious chiefs, that they might run no
risque of (having their punishment; desiring, at the
same time, that the general would set the rest of
his officers at liberty, and delft from his design of
coming to Mexico, because the dangers and impediments
attending such a journey were unsurmountable.
Cortes received the embassy and presents with
great respects, and, having ordered the four imprisoned
officers to be brought ashore, delivered them
to the ambassadors ; observing, that he was highly
pleased with such an opportunity of shewing his regard
to the emperor ; that, tho he could net help
owning the insolence of the caciques, he thought
.it in some measure excusable, from the extravagancy
of the officers themselves, who, not contented with
the ordinary tribute, had, of their own authority,
demanded twenty Indians for their sacrifices : a proposal
of such diabolical cruelty, as could not but be

shocking:


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 231

shocking to the Spaniards, who were bred in another
religion, of greater piety and regard to human
nature: that finding himself obliged to the caciques,
for admitting and entertaining him in their
territories, after he was discourteous abandoned by
Tensile and Pilate, he could not help interceding
with Montezuma in their behalf, especially as
they, together with the Totanaque mountaineers,
were now in a special manner under his protection :
that when he should be so happy as to appear in
the emperors presence, he would communicate the
importance of his embassy ; and, in the mean time,
he would pay no regard to impediments and dangers,
which served only to whet the resolution of
the Spaniards, who were accustomed to seek glory
amidst the greatest difficulties. With this resolute
answer, and a present of Castilian trifles to their
monarch, the ambassadors went away, not a little
dissatisfied at the obstinacy of Cortes, who from this
circumstance acquired fresh reputation among the
nations: for the Indians were now fully persuaded,
that he must be some deity whose friendship the
haughty Montezuma solicited with such presents and
submission*


\ , , ‘

C H A P.


/


232 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.


CHAP. X.

Cortes makes an expedition to Zempazingo, and reckon -
dies the natives of that place to the Zempoallans i,
demolished the idols at Zempoalla , and converts the
temple into a Christian church ; returns to Vera
CruZy and sends dispatches to Spain.

S On after this occurrence, the cacique of
Zempoalla, coming to Vera Cruz, told Cortes*
that now the time was come for his defending their
country from the Mexicans, some troops of whom
had arrived at Zempazingo, a strong place, at the
distance of two days journey, from whence they
already made excursions into his diitridf, where they
destroyed the corn fields, and committed other
adds of hostility Herman, thinking it was incumbent
upon him to protect his new allies, and
necessary to strike a terror into Motezuma’s army*
of which he supposed these were some advanced
parties, desired the cacique to provide Indians of
burthen for the baggage and artillery; and, having
made a proper disposition, began his march immediately,
at the head of four hundred Spaniards. Ashe
pasted by Zempoalla, he was joined by two thousand
armed Indians, whom the cacique had assembled
to serve under him in this expedition : that
night he quartered his troops in some houses within
three leagues of Zempazingo, and next day, in the
afternoon, he discovered the town, situated upon
the top of a small hill, among steep rocks, which
concealed part of the buildings, and rendered the access
very difficult. Nevertheless, his men overcame
the fleetness of the road, without having net with
any refinance ; and he was preparing to attack the
place in several parts, when he was prevented by a
deputation from the town, of eight ancient priests*
clothed


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 233

clothed in black mantles, gathered and platted about
the neck, with a piece hanging loose in form of a
hood that kept the head warm. These venerable
ambassadors, whose long hair was clotted, and whose
faces and hands were stained with the blood of human
sacrifices, approached the general with marks
of the mod: abject submission, and, in a suppliant
whining tone, asked by what offence the poor inhabitants
had merited the indignation of a people so
famed for clemency and goodness. Cortes answered,
that he had no design again the inhabitants,
but came to chaise the Mexican soldiers quartered
in the town, who had infected the territories of his
friends. To this declaration the pried replied,
that the Mexican troops, who were in garrison at
Zempazingo, had retired farther up into the country,
as soon as they heard that Motezuma’s officers
were imprisoned at Quiabiflan, and that he was
milled by the false suggestions of the Zempoallans,
who, being their inveterate enemies, had feigned this
dory to make him the instrument of their revenge
Cortes immediately discovered the truth of this allegation,
by the confusion and frivolous evasions
of the Zempoallan officers; and, being nettled at
the deceit, which was a reflection upon bis penetration,
he sent for the Indians, who had by this time
begun to plunder and make prisoners, and they being
brought into his presence loaded with booty,
and followed by the miserable inhabitants, crying
aloud for judice, he ordered them to unbind their
captives, and retire the goods to the right owners;
and publicly told the Zempoallan captains, in very
angry terms, that they had incurred the penalty of
death by their presumption, in engaging him by deceit
as a party in their revenge. However, he differed
himself to be appeased by the intercession of
his own officers, whom he had before hand intruded
for the purpose, tho J in truth he curd not venture

to


234 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

to proceed rigorous, for fear of losing the friendship
of his new allies. After having reprimanded
the Zempoallans in this manner, he commanded
them to lodge without the town, while he himself
entering with his Spaniards, was received as a deliverer,
and visited by the cacique, accompanied
by others of the neighbourhood, who voluntarily
acknowledged themselves as subjects of the king of
Spain. His next talk was to adjust the differences
between these Indians and the Zempoallans, which
had begun about the division of their dismiss, and
grown to a mod rancorous pitch of animosity. He
formed a scheme for compromising the affair, and,
shaving made them friends, returned to Vera Cruz*
leaving his interest and reputation highly advanced
by the issue of this expedition, which he had too sedulously
undertaken ; hereby demonstrating himself
a consummate politician, in being able to convert-even
his own errors to the advantage of his de
fig n.

In his return, he found the cacique of Zempoalla
waiting for him, at some distance from his town,
with great store of provision for the refreshment of
the army; and perceiving that chief was ashamed at
his conduct, by the confusion of his speech and countenance,
he assured him he had laid aside his displeasure;
and they went together into the town,
where the cacique had provided a present of eight
virgins curiously adorned, among whom was his
own niece, whom he recommended as a wife to Cortes,
that their friendship might be strengthened by
the ties of blood. The general thanked him kindly
for this proof of his sincerity and affection, but
gave him to understand, that it was not lawful fora
Spaniard to marry any woman who differed from
him in point of religion ; and took this opportunity
of declaiming against their idolatry and superstition,
with more zeal than discretion. About this time

the


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 235

> . % .

the Zempoalians were assembled on one of their
most solemn festivals, in order to celebrate a far
crime of human blood, which being performed with
horrible ceremonies, the unhappy victims were cut
in pieces, and sold to the people as sacred food. Cortes,
being informed of this transaction, was fomuch
transported with indignation, that, forgetting every
other motive, he instantly commanded the soldiers
to arm and bring before him the cacique, and principal
Indians who used to attend him: with these he
proceeded to the temple, followed by his troops; and
the priests, hearing of his approach, came running
to the gate, calling, with loud and hideous outcries,
the people to the defence of their gods. Some troops
of armed Indians, whom they had provided in case
of any disturbance, immediately polled themselves
in the avenues of the temple; and Herman Cortes,
seeing the inhabitants assembling in great numbers,
ordered Donna Marina to tell them aloud, that on
the firs arrow they should let fly, he would cause
the throats of the cacique, and all the principal Indians
who were in his power to be cut, and afterwards
permit his soldiers to punilli their presumption
with fire and sword. The cacique, trembling
at this dreadful remonstrance, commanded them to
Jay down their arms and retire; and they obeying
with the utmost expedition, Cortes began to declaim
again If the barbarous absurdity of their religion,
with great emphasis and elocution, till, being
gradually wrought up to a degree of enthusiastic
fervour, he proposed that they should immediately
ascend the steps, and overthrow the idols with their
own hands: and when they prostrated themselves
upon the ground, declaring, with tears and lamentations,
that they would suffer all extremities of torture,
rather than commit such impious sacrilege,
he ordered the soldiers to perform the task, and in
si twinkling the idols were flung down and broken

to


236 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

to pieces, to the unspeakable horror of the Indians,
who flood motionless, expecting to see the immediate
vengeance of heaven ; but, perceiving how
unable their gods were to defend themselves, their
superstition was changed into contempt, and they
themselves abided the Spaniards in burning the fragments
of their deities. The walls were immediately
cleansed, and the temple being purified, was converted
into a Christian church, dedicated to the Virgin
Mary, in which mass was next day celebrated
with great solemnity.

The Spaniards, having taken this shep towards the
reformation of their allies, returned to Vera Cruz,
where they were reinforced with ten soldiers and
two horses, brought thither from Cuba in a vessel
commanded by Francisco de Sauce, In company
with Luis Marin : and this small addition was, at that
time, reckoned a confiderable supply. By these gentlemen
the general learned, that Velasquez had obtained
the title of king's lieutenant of the island, with a
power to make new discoveries and settlements;
which new honour had augmented his pride, and rendered
him altogether implacable against Cortes,
whom he resolved to persecute with all his might.
This information hastened Hernan’s resolution of
laying his proceedings before the king; and accordingly
the council of Vera Cruz wrote a letter, containing
an account of the expedition, and a detail of
the injurious behaviour of Velasquez towards Her-nan
Cortes, in consideration of whose great merit,
they besought his majesty to grant him commission
of captain-general, that he might a£l for the service
of his country, without any dependance upon the
governor of Cuba. Nor did Cortes himself omit explaining,
on this occasion, the foundation of the hope
he entertained of reducing the Mexican empire to
the obedience of his majesty, and the disposition
he was making to contend with Montezuma, by the


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 237

help of his own revolted subjects. These dispatches
being finished, were committed to the care
of Alonzo Hernandez Portocarrero, and francisco
Montejo, who embarked for Spain on the
16th of July, 1519, on board of the best flip of
the fleet, piloted by Antonio de Alaminos, and
carrying as an offering to his majesty all the gold,
jewels and curiosities they had acquired, together
with some Indians, who voluntarily undertook the
voyage, and a particular present from Herman to
his father Martin Cortes.

CHAP. XL

A conspiracy is formed, ag air ft Cortes , who orders the
Ships to be defrayed ; he begins his march for Mexico
; says several days at Zocothlan ; proceeds to
Xacazingo , andfends ambassadors to Tiafcala .

W HILE the general was employed in making
preparations for this service, some of the
soldiers and sailors privately concerted the means of
escaping to Cuba, with intelligence to Velasquez,
who might send out cruisers to make prize of the
flip : and, for this purpose, they had made sure of a
vessel and laid in provisions for the voyage; when
on the very night they had appointed for their flight,
one of the conspirators, touched with the enormity*
of their design, went and revealed the whole scheme
to Cortes, who took his measures with such secrecy
and discretion, that all the accomplices w 7 ere seized
on board of the vessel, and forthwith confessed the
crime of which they were accused. The general
finding it absolutely necessary to inflicts an exemplary
punishment, they were brought to trial: two
soldiers, the ringleaders of the conspiracy, were
condemned to die, other two were whipped as old
offenders, the principal mariner of the flip was

sentenced


238 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

sentenced to lose one of his feet, and the rest were
pardoned as people who had been drawn in and deceived.


This conspiracy gave great uneasiness to Cortes*
who considered it as the consequence of past disturbances,
and the sparks a flame which, if not extinguished,
might prove very mischievous in the prosecution
of his scheme : his mind was agitated by
various uneasy reflections, and after having revolved
a number of different expedients, he formed a resolution
which evinced the greatness of his soul 5
this was to destroy the ships, that the soldiers, being
bereft of all means to escape, might aCt with more
ardour and unanimity, and enable him to conqueror
die. He communicated this scheme to his confidents,
who, by seasonable gifts and insinuations,
exerted themselves among the men in such a manner,
that the sailors themselves unanimously declared
the ships would founder in consequence of the
damage they had sustained : so that Cortes seemed
to act according to their own dictates, when he ordered
them to bring ashore the sails, tackling and
iron, together with all the serviceable planks, and
to fink all the great vessels, reserving only the boats
for fishing; and by this definition of the fleet, he
gained a reinforcement to his army, of above an
hundred men, who ached as pilots and mariners onboard.


Having performed this aCliori, which was truly
worthy of his heroic spirit, he with his officers
concerted measures for pursuing the expedition : he
left one hundred and fifty men with two horses in
garrison at VeraCruz, under the command of Juan
de Efcalante, whom he recommended in the
strongest terms to the friendship and assistance of
the neighbouring caciques; and, assembling his
whole force at Zempoalla, mustered five hundred
foot, fifteen horse, with six pieces of cannon. The

cacique


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 239

cacique had provided two hundred tameness and a
considerable number of armed troops as auxiliaries,
out of which, Herman picked four hundred men,
including forty or fifty noble Indians, whom, tho*
he treated them as his own soldiers, he carried as
hostages for the security of the church of Zempo-
alia, the Spaniards at Vera Cruz and his own page,
whom he left with the cacique to learn the Mexican
language, in case he should lose his interpreters.
All things being in readiness for the march,
an express arrived from Juan de Efcalante, with
advice that some ships were seen hovering on the
road; and Cortes went immediately to Vera
Cruz, leaving the command of the troops to Pedro
de Alvarado and Gonzalo de Sandoval. At his
arrival, he perceived one of the vessels at anchor
at a considerable distance from the land, and on
the shore were four Spaniards, confiding of an
eferivano and witnesses, who delivered to Cortes a
notification, containing in substance, that Francisco
de Gray, governor of Jamaica, had, by virtue of
an order from the king, embarked on board of three
ships, two hundred and seventy Spaniards, under
the command of Alonzo de Pined, and taken possession
of that land on the side of the river of
Panuco, and therefore he sent intimation to require
of Cortes that he should not make any settlements
that way. Herman told him, he did not
underhand these forms of law, but Would meet the
captain and adjust the adair in an amicable manner,
for the service of the king, to whom they
equally owed allegiance. But the notary refusing
to carry this message, and inviting in a disrespectful
manner upon having a directs answer to his notification,
Cortes ordered them to be seized, and,
concealing himself and his men among some sandhill
near the iliore, dated all night and part of
the next day, in hopes that others would land from

7 the





2 4 o THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO,

the flip: at length he directed four of his men to
put on the cloathsof the prisoners, and to go down
to the sea-fide, where they should make signals with
their cloaks. In consequence of this stratagem,
twelve or fourteen men, armed with fire-arms and
cross-bows, rowed towards them in a boat, and as
they approached, the four men gradually retired,
but, all of them refused to land, except three of
the lea ft considerate, who were immediately taken,
and their companions returned on board the vessel,
which immediately weighed anchor and flood to
sea; while Cortes returned to Zempoalla with this
small recruit of seven Spaniards, which was counted
a very confiderable reinforcement. In a few days
after his return, he drew up the army in order,
forming a body of Spaniards for the van-guard, and
another of Indians for the rear, commanded by
Mamegi, Thence and Camilla, cacique of the
mountains: the strongest tameness were reserved
for the artillery, and the rest ordered to take charge
of the baggage. In this disposition, and furnished
with an advanced party to reconnoitre, they began
their march on the i 6th day of August, and in their
route, were kindly entertained at Jalapa, Soco-
china, and Texucla, towns belonging to their confederacy.
The first difficulty they met with in their
road to Mexico, was the rough part of the mountain,
where they were obliged to march for three
days over rocks and precipices, in very cold and
rainy weather, from the inclemency of which, the
soldiers had no shelter : and their proviboil's began
to fail when they .reached the summit, where they
found a temple and a great quantity of wood ; but,
here they made no stay, because on the other side
they descried some villages, to which they hastened
their march, and the toil of their dispatch was recoin
pence with refreshment and accom notation.

Here began the large and populous province of Zo-

lothian.


4^



THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO, 241

lothian, the cacique of which resided in a city of
the same name, situated in the valley at the foot of
the mountain. To this prince, Cortes sent notice
of his arrival and design, by two of the Zempo-
allan, who quickly returned with a favourable answer;
and in a little time, they discovered the city,
which made a magnificent figure with towers and
edifices, that seemed white at a distance, and being
by one of the soldiers compared to Caftel-Blanco
in Portugal, it for some time retained that appellation.
The cacique, with a numerous attendance,
came forth and received the general with a kind of
forced civility : the quarters provided for the troops
were incommodious, the provisions scanty, so that
it plainly appeared he was not very well pleased with
his guests ; but Cortes prudently stifled his resentment,
that he might give the Indian no handle to
engage him in hostilities, which might retard his
journey, or prejudice his aim. Next day, the cacique,
whose name was Olindeth, repeated his visit to
Cortes, who having received him with great civility,
among other questions, asked whether he was
subject to the king of Mexico. The other readily
answered, ct Is there any man upon earth who is
<c not a Have to Montezuma ?’’ When Herman scornfully
replied, that he himself, and those who accompanied
him, obeyed another king, who had
many subjects more powerful than Montezuma,
the cacique, without paying much attention to
these words, proceeded to display the grandeur of
his emperor : he said, the provinces under his dominion
were not to be reckoned, that he resided
in an impregnable city, founded in the midst of lakes,

• accessible only by dikes or causeways, with drawbridges
over several openings, through which there
was a communication of the water. Then he expatiated
upon the immensity of his riches, the
strength of his armies, and the misery of his ever
V 0 l ♦ I, M mies,













2 4 2 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

yrsies, above twenty thousand of whom were
yearly sacrificed on the altars of his gods. Cortes
easily perceived the drift of this discourse, which
had been dilated by the court of Mexico, in order
to deter him from proceeding : but, without
seeming to penetrate into his design, answered that
he was already well informed of the grandeur of
Montezuma; that his own embassy was peaceable,
his men being appointed rather as a mark of authority,
than a martial-guard : but, nevertheless,
he desired peace without being afraid of war; for,
the moll inconsiderable Spaniard was able to cope
with a whole army of Indians: that he would never
draw the sword without provocation ; but, if
compelled to adds of hostility, he would destroy
his enemies with fire and sword : for, nature
would assist him with her prodigies, and heaven
with its lightning, in defence of the cause of religion
and truth. This declaration, which has the
air of a ridiculous rhodomontade, was extremely
well calculated f r the intellects of the Indians,
who were confounded and overawed at the intrepidity
of the Spaniards, which they attributed to
something supernatural.

The cacique owned to father Bartholomew de OI-modo,
that the Christians .were of a superior race
of men, that their reasons were surprisingly convincing,
and their valour invincible: with these
sentiments, he entirely altered his conduct, and
plentifully supplied them with all necessaries for the
space of five days, during which they flayed in
Zocothlan ; as for the general, he treated him with
infinite respect, presented him with four female
Haves, and offered to supply him with twenty noble
Indians as guides for the army. Notwithstanding
these civilities, he was ft ill at heart a Have to Mo
tezuma, and, by his direction, advised Cortes to
continue his march by the way of Cholula, a fere
, she




- THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 243

tile country, well peopled with inhabitants, who,
being wholly inclined to merchandize and the arts
of peace, would plentifully supply his troops in
their passage ; whereas should he take the road of
Tlafcala, he mud march through a country possessed
by a bloody-minded people, addicted to
cruelty and war. This advice, however, was rejected
in consequence of the information Cortes received
from the Zempoallans of his army, who
assured him privately, that the Cholulans were a
faithless people, wholly devoted to Montezuma,
whose troops were quartered in all the towns of
their district:: whereas the Tlafcalans, tho numerous
and warlike, were friends to the Totonaques
and Zempoallans, and continually at war with
Montezuma *, for which reasons, they counselled
him to march through that province, where he
would be well treated, as their ally and confederate.
In consequence of these represent rations, he proceeded
on his march to the province of Tlafcala
that bordered upon Zocothlan, and, during the first
days, nothing confiderable occurred ; but afterwards,
hearing the country was in arms, he resolved to
halt in a small town called Xacazingo, until he
should be better informed of their intention.

Tlafcala, being about fifty leagues in circumference,
abounded with inhabitants, though the land
was mountainous and uneven, and the town, confiding
of houses rather durable than handsome, was
built upon different eminences, partly for defence,
and partly with a view to leave the plain for the
purposes of cultivation. At first: the people were
governed by kings, till, weary of tyranny, they
shook off the yoke, and formed themselves into a
commonwealth : they divided the towns into a certain
number of districts, and each sent a representative
to Tlafcala, where they constituted a senate,
the resolutions of which the whole province obeyed.

M 2 Under


244 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

Under this form of government, they had long
maintained themselves against the kings of Mexico,
and were now at their highest pitch of power;
for, the cruelty of Montezuma had augmented the
number of their confederates, among whom they
reckoned the Otomies, a warlike nation, famed
alike for valour and barbarity.

To this republic Cortes sent four of the chief
{Zempoallans, who were amply instructed by Donna
Marina and Aguilar, how to harangue the senate
in demanding a passage for the Spaniards through
the territories of Hafcala. They immediately assumed
the ensigns of ambassadors; each putting on
his (boulder a wreathed cotton tippet knotted at
the ends, bearing in the right hand a large arrow,
and on the left arm a target of shell: when the purport
of the embassy is war, the feathers of the arrow
are red, but white when their errand is peace.
Jiy these symbols they were known and respected
on the high roads, tho, if they turned aside, they
forfeited their privileges and immunities.

In this manner the four envoys of Cortes entered
I'lafcala, where they were lodge! in a house set
apart for the reception of ambassadors, and next
day were introduced into the senate, the members
of which rose from their little chairs, called yopa-
Ics, to bid them welcome The ambassadors entered
with their arrows raised on high, and their
tippets on their heads in token of extraordinary
veneration ; then, having paid their respects to the
senate, they walked leisurely to the middle of the
hall, where they kneeled with their eyes fixed upon
the ground, waiting for permission to speak.
When the eldest: senator desired them to declare their
business, they seated themselves upon their legs,
and he who was pitched upon as the orator expressed
himself to this effect


a Noble





THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 24.5:

4C Noble republic, valiant Tlafcalans, the lord
of Zempoalla and the mountain caciques, your
“ friends and allies, wishing you health abundance,.

and the destruction of your enemies, send us to
<6 y ou notice that an invincible race of mere
<c are arrived from the east, and seem to be more
than human; for, they sail upon palaces, and
u wield the thunder and lightning : yet they worship
an Almighty Being superior to our gods, who
is offended at the sacrifices of human blood*
Their general is ambassador from a powerful
prince, who desires to reform the abides of our
country, and repress the tyranny of Montezuma
he has already rescued our provinces from oppression,
and as he means to pass through your
territories, in his way to Mexico, he desires to
know wherein you have been aggrieved by the
tyrant, that he may redress your wrongs. We
have experienced his valour and beneficence, and.,
in the name of our caciques and confederates
admonish and request you to entertain those.
Grangers as the friends of your allies : for, their
captain assures you, that he comes in a peaceable
manner, demanding nothing but a free passage
through your country, in order to prof cute his
march, and fulfil his upright intentions,” The
speech being thus concluded, the four Indians
raised themselves upon their knees, and, making a
profound reverence to the senate, sat down as before,
in expectation of an answer. The senators,
having conferred among themselves, gave the ambassadors
to understand, that they received the salutation
of their confederates with all imaginable gratitude
; but that they must deliberate upon the answer
to be given to the strangers. Then t ? e Indians
retired to their lodging, and the senate began to
discuss the demand of Cortes, which produced very
obstinate debates; some proposing to comply with

M 3 his





4 4








4.4





























246 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO,

his request, and others instilling upon repelling or
destroying him by force of arms. The chief of
those who espoused the pacific opinion was an old
senator, called Magifcatzen, of great authority in
the republic, who reminded them of a prophecy,
importing that an invincible race of men would
come from the oriental regions, with such dominion
over the elements, that they should sound
floating cities upon the seas, and use fire and air to

subdue the earth : he said these strangers were cere



vainly the very people predicated; they came from
the east, their arms were fire, they dwelt in float
ice-houses, and, by their actions in Tabasco, they
.proved themselves invincible: besides, their arrival
was predicted by signals from heaven, which it
were impious to disregard j or, supposing those fig
nails we re casual, and the strangers no other than
men like themselves, they had assisted their allies,
and were now come in a peaceable manner, soliciting
a passage through their country, which they
could not refuse, without being guilty of cruelty to
men who had never injured them, as well as of
disrespect to their allies, by whom the strangers
were so strongly recommended. The speech of
Magifcatzen was received with acclamation and
applause; when the favourable intention of the senate
was wholly altered by the interposition of
Xicotencal their general, a young man of great
ferocity and ambition, who, with equal eloquence
and vivacity, ridiculed the prophecy, or at least the
supposition of its being verified in the arrival of the
Spaniards, whom he represented as ordinary men,

whose vessels and arms were the effects of human
ir.dufiry, whose valour was not uncommon, tho ?
their pride, cruelty, and avarice were intolerable ;
for they contemned the laws and customs of the
Indians, thirsted after their gold, lived at discretion,
destroyed their temples, and blasphemed their gods :

with


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 247

with respect to the signals of Heaven* they were
always deemed as fore-runners of calamity, and
therefore ought to be interpreted as warnings to
oppose and extirpate those presumptuous Grangers ;
for which reasons, he learnedly begged they would
give him leave to tremble the forces, and extirpate
them at once, as oppressors of their country and
enemies of their religion. These arguments preponderated
with a people trained to war and ambitious
of glory : they ordered the general to form
the army and try his strength with the Christians,
and in the meantime detained the ambassadors, intending,
should they be worded, to lay the blame
of the war upon the ferocity of their Otomy allies
and use the intercession of the Zempoallans in procuring
peace,

CHAP. XII.

Cortes enters the territories of the Tlafcalans , with vjJjoju
he fights an ohjiinate battle ; they afterwards return
to the charge and are reputed; the Spaniards mutiny
and are appeased by the speech of Cortes.

T H E Spaniards having waited eight days at
Xacazingo for the return of his messengers,
whose delay he looked upon as a confirmation of
the hodie intent of the Tlafcalans, Cortes resolved
to continue his march towards their city, that he
might either discover their designs, or attack them
before they should be joined by their allies, This
was a prudent resolution ; for, in all probability,
they had not time to guard a strong wall of hewn
done, extending from one mountain to another asa
bulwark to their territories, through the opening
of which he paced without opposition. It was
twenty feet thick, nine feet high, with a parapet
upon the top, divided in the middle for an entrance,

M 4 which


2 4 S THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

which was formed by the two ends circularly crossing
each other for the space of ten paces; and
might have been easily defended against all invaders.
'The Spaniards, having passed it without difficulty,
formed themselves again into a compass body, and
continuing their march, discovered at a confiderable
distance twenty or thirty Indians, who by their
plumes appeared to be soldiers in the held. Cortes
immediately sent his scouts to allure them with
signs of peace, while he himself followed with
eight horse, and ordered his infantry to advance at
leisure, that they might not be out of breath in case
of emergency. The Indians flayed in the same
place, until the six horse that were detached before
the rest: drew near, then they betook them r elves to
their heels, until they joined their party, which was
at some distance, when they faced about and flood
in a posture of defence. They were immediately
attacked by the fourteen horse united for that purpose,
and flood their ground without flinching,
notwithstanding the damage. they received, until
they were reinforced by five thousand Indians,
who had lain in ambuscade: at the same time the
Spanifh infantry came up, and the troops formed
themselves into a battalion, to sustain the fury with
which the enemy advanced: but at the first volley
©f the fire-arms, which did great execution, they
turned their backs, and the Spaniards taking advantage
of their confusion, fell upon them with
such resolution, that in a little time they quitted
the field, leaving sixty men dead and some prisoners.
Cortes would not allow them to be pursued,
but took possession of feme houses that were in sight,
in which they found provisions, and passed the
night. Next day, proceeding on their march,
they were opposed by a larger body of the enemy,
which advanced with great noise, and discharging a
flight of arrows and a great quantity of stones from

flings,


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 249

flings, began to retreat, making a kind of running
fight. Cortes, perceiving that their retreat was rather
the effects of stratagem than of fear, followed
in close order, until having reached the top of an
eminence in the road, he discovered a plain on the
other side, alrnofl covered with an army of forty
thousand men, composed of various nations distinguished
by the various colours of their ensigns
and plumes. The Spaniards, without being discouraged
at the sight of such odds, marched down
the hill with a chearful security, and forming on
the even ground below, where the horses could
add, moved on to the attack at the appointed signal:
the Indians still retired, until seeing them at a distance
from the hill, they opened to the right and
list, running furiously to occupy the ground on
both sides, then closing in a circle, surrounded the
Spaniards, who found it necessary to throw themselves
into the form of an hollow square, in order
to sustain the fury of the assailants. The air was
darkened with arrows, and rent with hideous outcries,
an innumerable quantity of darts and stones
rained upon the Spaniards, and the Indians perceiving
the little efredl of these middles, boldly attacked
them with pikes and swords. Cortes, breaking
in among them with his horse, trampled underfoot
all that were in his way, the fire-arms killed
them in heaps, the artillery mowed down whole
companies, filling their army with death and horror.
Numbers were employed, according to the Indian
custom, to carry off" their killed and wounded ;
the multitude began to diminish, and their fury to
abate: then Cortes, seeing them fall hack, placed!
his horse on the wings, and being followed by the
foot at a large pace, charged them with redoubled
vigour. A t first, they made a gallant resistance,
but the horses, that seemed monstrous or supernatural
1, threw them into disorder, so that they began

M 5 to



250 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

to fly on all Tides, wounding and treading one another
under foot, in the confusion of their flights
During the fray, however, Pedro de Moron beings
mounted on a mare, engaged himself too far, To
that he was surrounded and taken, after having received
several wounds and tho he was Toon re
leased by another party of horse, the mare was
killed, and the Indians had time to close again,
and renew the battle. By this time, the Spaniards
were tired with action, and began to be dubious of
success, when, all of a sudden, the cries of the
enemy ceased, and this thence was succeeded by
the noise of their kettle-drums and horns sounding
a retreat, in obedience to which, they moved
slowly off, leaving the field to the Christians. It
was afterwards known that Xicotencal ordered this
retreat to be founded, because the greatest part of
his commanders being killed, he would not venture
to manage such an army without officers : yet, notwithstanding
their great loss, they entered their
quarters triumphant, because they had not been
overcome, and the mares head was carried as a
trophy before the general, who sent it to Tlafcala,
where it was sacrificed in one of their temples,
with extraordinary solemnity. In this battle, nine
or ten Spanifh soldiers were wounded, and Tome of
the Zempoallans, who did good service on this occasion,
fired by the example of the Spaniards, as
well as with resentment at seeing; their alliance
despised. Cortes, perceiving a snail town on a ri-fig
ground that commanded that country, marched
thither, and found abundance of provision ; but,
as there was not sufficient accommodation for the
whole army, the Zempoallans built huts for themselves,
and chearfully raised some works of earth
and fasti-nes to secure the place, which was naturally
strong and of difficult access*


Various


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 251

Various were the sentiments of the Tlafcalans
upon the event of this days engagement. The
death of their captains produced a public lamentation
: some cried out for peace with those strangers,
who were certainly immortal; Magifcatzen valued
himself upon having foreseen the disaster, and repeated
the arguments he had formerly used in the
senate : others breathed nothing but menaces, and
the continuation of the war, comforting themselves
with the death of the mare. Xicotencal demanded
supplies for the army, to revenge the loss
they had buffered ; and one of the confederates arriving
at this period, with ten thousand men, this
succour was looked upon as the effect of a particular
providence in their behalf, and encouraged them
to prosecute the war with fresh vigour. Meanwhile,
the four Z-empoallan envoys, having made
their escape, returned to the Spanifh camp by different
ways, and gave an account of their having
been destined by the Tlafcalans as sacrifices to the
god of war, as soon as Xicotencal took the field, at
which time they were put in close confinement,
from whence they had found means to withdraw:
and this information had such an effects upon their
companions, that Cortes, who wanted to renew his
offers of peace, could not find messengers to carry
the proposals.

A profound silence reigned through the whole
country, so that the very stillness was suspicious,
and the retreat of Xicotencal had all the marks of
an undecided dispute : he had reason, therefore, to
maintain his post, to the strength of which he
had added by new works : yet, foreseeing the Indians
would interpret his inaction into fear, an opinion
which it was by no means his inter-eft to indulge,
he resolved to sally from his quarters the
very next morning after the battle, in order to reconnoitre
the country, gain intelligence, and disturb

M 6 the



252 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

the enemy: which resolution he in person executed
with all his horse, and two hundred foot,
equally confiding of Spaniards and Zempoallans.
He proceeded as far as some villages in the road to
Tlalcala, where he found great store of provisions,
and took several prisoners, from whom he learned
that Xicotencal was encamped about two leagues
from thence, in the neighbourhood of the city,
employed in recruiting and augmenting the army.
Cortes having permitted the Zempoallans, who were
now incensed against the Tlafcalans, to destroy the
country with fire and sword, returned to the camp,
from whence he set at liberty all the prisoners he
had made in this excursion, that they might retain
the impression of Spanifh generosity ; and of
those who were taken on the day of battle, he
chose two or three to carry a message to Xicotencal,
expressing his concern for the loss he had sustained
in the action, which was owing to the obstinacy
of his nation, in rejecting the peaceable request of
the Spaniards; and desiring that they would now
Often to terms of accommodation, otherwise he
Should be obliged to destroy them root and branch,
so as to make the name of Tiafcala a terror to its
neighbours. The prisoners departed with this message,
promising faithfully to return with an answer ;
and indeed few hours elapsed before they kept this
lord: for, they came back in a bloody condition,,
having been mangled by order of Xicotencal, foe?
their presumption in delivering such a charge ; to
which he answered by the same messengers, that
he would at fun-rife meet the Christians in the field,
when he made no doubt but he should carry them
alive to the altars of his gods, on which their blood
should be sacrificed : he, therefore,, gave notice of
his resolution that their captain might laye time
to prepare himself; for, he was not accustomed to
Men the glory of his victories, in attacking his

enemy.


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO, 2 5 3

enemy by surprize. Cortes, tho ? piqued at the insolence
of this barbarian, would not neglect his
advice ; on the contrary, at day-break he drew his
troops into the field, leaving in the quarters, such a
force as he thought necessary for their defence, and
advancing about half a league, took possession of a
part where he could receive the enemy with advantage.
There he formed his men, securing his
flanks with the artillery, and putting himself at the
head of his horse, in order to bring succour to
every place where it should be wanted : he waited
the event with such signs of ease and security in
his aspect, as filled the soldiers with fortitude and
resolution. The scouts in a little time, returned
with intelligence that the enemy was upon the
march, and presently their vanguard appeared :
the plain began to fill with armed Indians, so that
the eye could not reach the end of their troops,
which covered the whole horizon ; their number
amounted to above fifty thousand men, confiding
of the whole strength of the republic and its allies.
They displayed a great eagle of gold, the ensign of
Tlafcala, which they never brought into the field
except in their greatest undertakings, and they advanced
with equal intrepidity and expedition.'
When they came within cannon-shot, the artillery
truck such a terror into them, that they baited for
some time, divided between fear and indignation;
but, their rage prevailing, they rushed forward in a
throng, until they were near enough to use their
slings and arrows, and then they were a second
time flopped by the discharge of the fire-arms and
cross-bows The engagement laded a long time,
until the Indians, perceiving the carnage that was
made among them by the Spaniards and Zempo-
allan, who flood safe in the advantage of their arms
and disposition, obeyed the dictates of fury and
despair, and bursting among them like a torrent,

broke


254 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

broke their ranks by meer dint of weight and multitude.,
There was now occasion for all the valour
of the soldiers, all the bravery and conduct of the
officers to remedy this misfortune ; and indeed they
formed again by main force, bearing down all that
did not give way to their amazing efforts. At this
very juncture, a very great disturbance was ob
served among the enemy: their troops moved to
and. fro, dividing and turning their arms against
each other ; till at length they retired together in a
tumultuous manner ; those who were engaged in
the front turning their backs, and flying with precipitation.


It was afterwards known that the cause of this
disturbance and retreat was the insolence of Xico-
tench, who upbraided one of the confederate caciques
with cowardice, because he did not advance
when the rest were engaged. The Indian chief,
who commanded ten thousand men, replied with
equal obloquy, a personal challenge ensued, the
other caciques espoused the quarrel of their friend,
so that tumult and uproar prevailed : at length*
the confederates retired, and Xicotencal, finding
himself abandoned by his allies, left the field and
the victory to the Spaniards, after having seen a
vast number of his people slain upon the spot*
Tho Cortes lost only one soldier on this occasion,
some of the men returned to the quarters in a melancholy
and desponding humour, produced by the
reflection of their having been put into disorder,
and loudly declared that they would not sacrifice
themselves to the obstinacy of Cortes, but return,
of themselves to Vera Cruz, and leave him alone
to his own ambition and temerity. This spirit of
mutiny and disobedience increased to such a degree,
that Cortes found it necessary to assemble and
harangue the soldiers : he observed, that they had
already vanquished and overthrown the Tlafcalans,


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 255

who, in a little time, would certainly sue for peace;
so that they should proceed to Mexico with an additional
share of reputation, acquired from the conquest
of fitch a warlike people: whereas, should
they now attempt to retreat, they must forfeit all
the hopes of t heir enterprize, bring themselves into
contempt with their allies, who now looked upon
them as invincible, and expose themselves to the
enmity of the Tlafcalans, who, knowing all the
passes of the country, would undoubtedly harass
them in their march by attacks and ambuscades, so
as to intercept their return, and perhaps effect their
total destruction. In a word, he exerted his eloquence
with such success, that one of the mutineers
cried aloud, 66 Fellow-soldiers, our general
4 is in the right: we cannot now retire without
<c being inevitably lost.” And his resolution was
applauded by the acclamations of the whole army,

/

C PI A P. XIII.

Xicotencal attacks the Spanish quarters by night; his
army deserts him ; the republic sues for peace ; another
embassy arrives from Montezuma ; Cortes
makes his entrance into Tiafcala .

rjp H E inhabitants of Tiafcala, intimidated by
JL the event of the second battle, cried aloud
for peace with those strangers, who were certainly
invincible and immortal. The senate concluded
they were magicians, and, resolving to oppose enchantment
against enchantment, consulted their
own wizards, who, pretending to have discovered
the cause of their own miscarriage, affirmed the
Spaniards,'being the offspring of the fun, derived
a superior force from the warm and invigorating
beams of their father : but, that when he disappeared
in the west, that influence ceased, and they

remained




256 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

remained dispirited and withered like the herbs of
the field. They therefore proposed that the Christians
should be attacked by night, and utterly destroyed
before they could be animated by the riling
fun. This important intelligence was communicated
to Xicotencal by the senate, with orders to
execute the plan, ami he immediately began to
make proper dispositions for t e action.

Mean while tre Spaniards made sallies to raise
contributions among the neighbouring villages,
driving the detached parties of the enemy before
them, tho’they used the unarmed natives so well as
to gain both their good will and provision. Cortes
was particularly careful in preserving strict discipline
: he always kept sentinels pofted^at a distance
from the quarters: the guards mounted and were
relieved with the greatest regularity; the horses
flood saddled all night, and the soldiers either
watched or rested upon their arms. T his precision
was of the utmost consequence for, on the night
destined for the attack projected by the Tlafcalans,
the out sentinels discovered a body of the enemy
marching towards their quarters, with unaccustomed
slowness and silence ; and notice being given of
their approach, the soldiers, without noise or confusion,
manned the works, and chearfully waited
to give them a warm reception. Xicotencal had
brought with him ten thousand men, whom he ordered
to attack the quarters on three Tides, and they
executed his commands with, equal speed and resolution
: hut,, they met with such a powerful and
unexpected refinance, that many, fell upon the spot,
and the rest were infected with the greater fear, as
they had come in full confidence of finding the
Spaniards weak and unprepared. Xicotencal was
now sensible of the delusion of the sorcerers ; but,
his anger animated him to such a pitch of courage,
that he returned to the assault with redoubled fury:

his 5


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 257

bis Indians helping one another to climb over the
wall, and one party succeeding as another was (lain*
for a confiderable length of time, during which
they suffered as much from their own disorder, as
from the arms of the Christians ; till at length, the
general finding it impracticable to carry his point,
ordered the signal to be given for withdrawing his
men. But Herman Cortes, who kept a watchful
eye over every circumstance, no sooner perceived
them slackening in the attack and retiring from the
wall, than he sent out part of his infantry and all
his horse, furnished with bread: plates full of bells,
to charge the retreating Indians, who were so terrified
at the unusual noise, that they fled in confusion
leaving a confiderable number of dead and some
wounded, whom they could not carry off. This
victory was obtained with the loss of only one Zem-
allan : a circumstance altogether surprizing, considering
the innumerable heaps of arrows, darts, and
stones that were found within the entrenchments*
The news of this action no sooner reached
Tlafcala, than the inhabitants with one voice demanded
peace, and justice against the magicians
who had deceived them. The senate assembling,
unanimously agreed to punish the impostors, two
of whom were immediately sacrificed to their gods,
and to implore forgiveness of those Grangers, whom
they now certainly believed to be the celestial men
mentioned in their prophecy. In the mean time,
a messenger was sent to inform Xicotencal of the
senates resolution, and commanded him to desist:
from all further operations of war. This general,
however, exasperated against the Spaniards, from
whom he longed to retrieve his honour, absolutely
refused to comply with this command; and resolved
to assault the enemy a second time by night,
after he should have informed himself of the
strength and nature of their fortifications. For

this






ajB THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

this purpose, he employed forty soldiers to enter
the Spanifh quarters among the peasants of the
neighbourhood, who resorted thither to exchange
provisions for baubles ; and these spies (pent the
greatest part of the morning among the Christians,
unsuspected, until a Zempoallan, who had perceived
one of them examining the fortifications
very narrowly, communicated his suspicion to
Cortes, who immediately ordered him to be seized
and put to the torture, when he made an ample
confession, in consequence of which, his confederates
were apprehended, and the whole scheme was
discovered. The general, thinking it necessary to
act with rigour on this occasion, ordered, that of
fifteen who seemed the most obstinate, some should
lose an hand, others be deprived of their thumbs,
and dismissed to tell Xicotencal that he was prepared
for his coming, and had sent those spies alive,
that he might not lose their information concerning
the Spanifh works.

The Indian army was struck with horrour and
astonishment at this bloody spectacle, and their
message made a deep impression on the mind of
their general, who now believed, in good earnest,
that the Christians could not have penetrated this
design, without some supernatural intelligence.
While he ruminated on this reflection, he was
overtaken by several ministers, who, by the authority
of the senate, divested him of the supreme
command, on account of his insolence and disobedience:
and he was immediately deserted by his
captains and men, who being already overwhelmed
with confirmation, dispersed different ways, leaving
him to return to Tlafcala in the capacity of a private
senator.

All that night, and the next day, the Spaniards
expected an attack; but, on the second morning,
the advanced sentinels discovered a number of

loaded


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 2 59

loaded Indians, coming along the road of Tlafcala,
There were four persons of rank, adorned with
white feathers in token of peace, and followed by
thirty tameness loaded with provision. As they
approached, they halted from time to time as afraid
to advance, bowing their bodies and touching the
earth with their hands, which they afterwards applied
to their lips, as signals of humility and respect


Donna Marina, appearing upon the wall, asked
in their own language, from whom and for what
purpose they came ? and when they answered,
“ From the senate and republic of Tlafcala, to
<c treat of peace they were permitted to enter,
Cortes received them with great gravity and fate,
and they having repeated their prostrations and
performed their fumigations, delivered their embassy,
consisting of apologies for what was past,
laying the blame of the war upon the ferocious
disposition of the Otomies and Chontales their allies
; ensuing for peace in the name of the senate
and inhabitants of Tlafcala, who earnestly required
that he would immediately march into their city,
where they should be served and respect 5 ted as children
of the fun and brothers of the gods. Herman,
with an assessed severity in his countenance, desired
they would tell the senate from him, they
ought to look upon their admission to his presence,
as a mark of his goodness and condescension, considering
the methods they had taken to incur his
displeasure : that tho peace was agreeable to his
inclination, they had no reason to expert he should
grant it immediately, until they had shewn a disposition
deserve it: he would, however, endeavour
to appease the anger of his captains, and in the
mean time the Tlafcalans would do well to facilitate
an accommodation, by an amendment in their
conduct. Thus, by keeping aloof, he enhanced

the



260 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO,

the value of his friendship, which otherwise might
have grown too cheap in the eyes of such a warlike
nation.

The same of the Spaniards increased with their
victories; and Montezuma, who, by his caciques
and couriers, had intelligence of every thing that
palled, was very much alarmed at their success
against the Tlafcalans ; fearing that, should the
victors and the vanquished unite their forces, they
might be able to overturn his whole empire. Yet,
instead of assembling an army for his own defence,
he made no preparations of that kind, as if he had
been with-held by some superior genius that overawed
his spirit j but had recourse again to negotiation,
and sent another present to Cortes by ambassadors,
who had orders to divert him from his intended
journey, to keep an eye over his actions,
and, if possible, to hinder him from coming to an
accommodation with the Tlafcalans. Five Mexicans
of the first rank, being charged with this
present and embassy, arrived in the Spanifh quarters
immediately after the ministers of the republic had
departed; and were moll graciously received by
Cortes, who thankfully accepted of the present
worth a thousand pieces of eight, and heard their
message, which contained a congratulation on his
success against the Tlafcalans; and a request that
he would not think of coming to his court, for
reasons which hindered him from granting per*
million. But, Herman would not dispatch them
immediately, being desirous that they should with
their own eyes see the Tlafcalans humbled ; nor
did they with to depart until they should be able to
accomplish the real aim of their embassy.

The republic, in the mean time, ordered the
neighbouring villages to furnish provisions gratis
for the Spanifh army, which now enjoyed plenty of
every thing, and in two days Cortes was visited


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO, 26 1

by Xicotencal in person, at the head of fifty noblemen
of his party and parentage, who attended him
with the ensigns of peace, to execute their commission
in the name of the senate. He was above
the middle feature, well made, and rather muscular
than corpulent; and tho* his features were not
agreeable, his aspect commanded regard: he was
habited in a white mantle, adorned with some jewels
; he appeared with the free air of a soldier before
Cortes, took his seat, and having told who he was,
began his speech, by owning frankly that he was
the cause of the war, believing the Spaniards were
the favourites of Montezuma, whom he abhorred ;
but now he was come to put himself into the hands
of his conqueror, hoping by this fubrrtiiTion to ob-»
tain pardon for his country, and peace upon his
own terms, which he required once, twice and
thrice, in the name and by the authority of the fe
nate, nobles and commons of Tlafcala. He like-wife
intreated him to enter the city, where he
would find quarters provided for his men ; and, at
the same time, begged the inhabitants might be
well used, and their gods and wives protected from
military license.

j

Cortes, in the hearing of the Mexican ambassadors,
after having complained with some vehemence
of the unjust war they had carried on,
granted the peace they desired, and promised that
no violence or extortion should be committed by
his soldiers ; adding, that when he should be disposed
to enter their city, he would give them timely
notice to make the necessary preparations.

Xicotencal, interpreting this delay into a doubt
of his sincerity, offered himself and his attendants
as hostages : but Cortes would not accept of any
security, which he said was altogether unnecessary
to an army, which had already maintained itself in
the midst of declared enemies; and promising to

march



252 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

march as soon as he could make the proper dispose
tions, he broke up the conference, giving his hand
to Xicotencal at parting, and telling him, that he
would return the visit after he should have dispatched
the ambassadors of Montezuma. The Mexicans
made a jest of this peace, and pretended to wonder
that so wise a man as the Spanifh general should
be deceived by the Tlafcalans, a barbarous people,
who supported themselves more by deceit than by
valour, and sought to lull him into a careless security,
that they might destroy him and his soldiers
with the greater ease. But, when they saw him
fixed in his resolution to grant a peace, which he
said was the chief aim and intention of his arms,
they began to be very pensive, and, after a fit of
musing, required that he would delay his march to
Tlafcala for six days, within which period two of
their number should go and inform their prince of
this transaction, while the rest: would slay there to
expect his resolution. To this request, Herman
Cortes consented ; for, he did not think proper to
break with Montezuma, who, in consequence of this
Intimation, might lay aside his unwillingness to be
seen.

Within the limited time, the ambassadors returned,
with six gentlemen of the royal family,
and a splendid retinue, bearing another present of
greater value than the former, and a message to
this import : That Montezuma desired to be a
friend and confederate of the great prince whom
the Spaniards obeyed, and would pay him a yearly
tribute, with the proviso that they should enter
into no league with the Tlafcalans, and lay aside
their design of coming to Mexico, as his people
were determined to fuller no strangers to approach
his presence.

Cortes postponed his answer till after they
should have reposed themselves, because he desired

that


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 26 §

that they should be witness of the peace with Flash
cala, and thought it of importance to detain them as
long as he could, that Montezuma might have the Less
time to prepare far hostilities. These embassies
alarmed the Tlafcalans to such a degree, that the
government came to a resolution to visit the Spanifh
quarters in the form of a senate, in order to convince
Cortes of their sincerity, and break off his
negotiation with the Mexicans. Accordingly the
senators were carried upon the shoulders of inferior
officers, and arrived in solemn procession, with a
numerous attendance, at the quarters of the general,
who received them with his accustomed fate
and civility, and after they 'were seated, he was
harangued by the father of Xicotencal, an old
blind man, of a very venerable appearance; who
gave him to underhand, that the senate of Tlafcala
were come to make their submission, sue for peace
on his own terms, and dissuade him from engaging
in any league with Montezuma, whom they re pre
fen ted as a tyrant, and foe to humanity and justice:
he likewise earnestly intreated him to honour their
city with his presence, and was f© pressing in repeating
this request, that Cortes assured them, he
Would march to Tlafcala as soon as the people of
the neighbouring villages could be assembled, to
conduct his artillery and baggage. In consequence
of this declaration, he next morning found five
hundred tameness at his quarters, and having made
the proper dispositions, forthwith began his march,
in that excellent order which his little army always
preserved. The fields were filled with innumerable
multitudes of people, who came forth to behold
the sight, and behaved with such gesticulation and
outcries, as the Spaniards mistook for the clamour
and threatnings of war, until they were undeceived
by Donna Marina, who told them, this was the
manner in which the Indians expressed their joy on

festivals*





264 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

festivals. At a confiderable distance from the
town, the Christians were received by the senators
and nobles, who, having made their reverences
without halting, turned about and marched before,
in token of the most - profound regard. At their
entrance, the city resounded with shouts, acclamations,
and the disagreeable musick of their pipes,
drums and horns; and so great was the concourse
of people, that the magistrates could hardly keep
the passage free : some women threw flowers on
the Spaniards, while others, more bold, put nosegays
into their hands; the priests, clad in their long
sacrificing garments, came with their coppercenfers,
fumigating the strangers as they passed : and the
countenances of all the spectators formed a groupe
expressive of joy, admiration and awe. The quarters
were provided in a large edifice, which had
three or four spacious courts with detached chambers,
where the whole army was conveniently
lodged, and where the ambassadors of Montezuma
were secure under the protection of Cortes, who
made his entrance into Tlafcala on the 23d day' of
September, 1519, having concluded a peace with
the republic, of such duration and consequence,
that to this day the inhabitants of that province
enjoy several privileges and exemptions, as a reward
of their friendship and fidelity to the first conquerors
of Mexico.


C H A P.





JifoutK of pie
3Slsfisipi


^NtnyLeon


'f^iimCLS -k


panic 3


^loxico


2TzJPitri


'oxumel


W Campcckv

1 r &

Jp

%^Z%-£- 3 ? ob


Gr. Camatiis


T . de losA^S .




viii > M 'In''


w

-il ; 1 . . . 1 .

LU4.I 1 1 1 ' lU-tht

UlUul^wRDMJ*





























































































































































































































THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO, 26s


CHAP, XIV.

dn account of the city of Tlafcala ; Diego de Ordaz
explores the volcano of Popocatepee ; another embassy
from Mexico \ ' Cortes marches to Cholula 5
where a scheme is laid for his destruction ; but defeated
by the fidelity and discretion of Donna Marina,


T L A S C A L A was a populous city founded
upon four eminences, and formed into as
many distinct wards, governed by four hereditary
caciques, who, nevertheless, depended entirely upon
the senate : all the houses were of one glory,
built of hone or brick, with flat roofs and galleries,
and the streets were narrow and crooked, according
to the fleetness and ruggedness of the
mountain; for, the situation and architecture were
calculated more for defence than convenience*
The whole province was about fifty leagues in
circumference, ten in length, and four in breadth,
a broken mountainous country, tho fertile and
well cultivated, surrounded on all Tides with provinces
depending on Montezuma, except on the
north, where it was hemmed in by the Cordilleras, a
ridge of mountains, through which they had communication
with the Otomies, Totonaques, and
other barbarous tribes. Their towns were numerous,
their people warlike and superstitious, and
their ground produced such plenty of mais or Indian
wheat, that the province acquired the name of
Tlafcala, which signifies the land of bread. They
had great variety of delicious fruit, game of all sorts,
and abundance of cochineal, the use of which they
learned from the Spaniards. These advantages,
however, were counterbalanced by certain inconveniences,
to which they were subject The
Vol. U N



THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

neighbourhood of the mountains was the occasion
of horrible hurricanes and inundations, which
sometimes destroyed their whole harvest, by suddenly
swelling the river Zahual, the water of which
was said to be so malignant, that those who used
it either for drink or bathing were certainly infected
with the itch : besides, their abundance was
cursed with the want of fait, which though they
could have purchased in exchange for wheat in the
dominions of Montezuma, they chose rather to eat
their food without seasoning, than maintain a commerce
with their enemies.

i

Cortes, considering the character of the people
among whom he lived, added with the utmost vigilance
and circumspection ; the guards were continued
in his quarters ; he never 'went abroad without
a number of attendants well armed, and the
soldiers never appeared but in companies, and always
carried their fire-arms on their shoulders.
The Indians were mortified at these marks of
caution, which indicated distrust, and Magifcatzin,
by order of the senate, complained to Cortes of
his diffidence, observing that his soldiers, who paf
fed through the city with lightening on their should
ders, gave more offence by that mark of suspicion,
than they could do by committing real violences.
Cortes allured him, that he was perfectly convinced
of the sincerity and good will of the republic;
but that those circumstances which gave umbrage,
were no other than the effects of discipline, by
which the Spanifh soldiers had been rendered invincible.
This reply satisfied the senior and the senate,
and the Spaniards had every day fresh proofs of the
friendship and fidelity of their new allies: they
were entertained with plenty of provision, and presents
were poured in upon them from all quarters.
Cortes ordered his principal apartment to be converted
into a chapel, where mass was regularly celebrated






THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 267

serrated, in presence of the chief Indians. Magis
expressed an inclination to know the articles
of the Christian religion, the ceremonies of
which he already admired ; and being instructed
by father Bartholomew de Oviedo, he approved of
the worship, tho he could by no means be prevailed
upon to abandon his own gods: observing
that the deity of the Christians might be very powerful,
but that those of the Indians were likewise
mighty enough to protect their votaries. Herman s
whose zeal sometimes got the better of his discretion,
proposed to destroy all their idols without delay
: but his fervour was moderated by the wisdom of
de Oviedo, who told him, that he was not without
scruples concerning the violence offered to the Zem-
pallas; that persecution and the gospel did ill agree,
and that the conversion of these infidels required time
and gentle usage. In the mean time, he prevailed
with theTlafcalans to desist from sacrifices of human
blood, which were so shockingly opposite to the
laws of nature; and immediately they set at liberty
those miserable victims who were fed in cages for
the purposes of their inhuman worship. The
peace being established, and the senate of Tlafcala
having sworn allegiance to the king of Spain, Cortes
dismissed the Mexican ambassadors, desiring
they would inform Montezuma of what had passed
in their presence ; of the sollicitations and fidelity
of the Tlafcalans, with whom he had now such
influence, that he hoped in time to reduce them to
the obedience of the Mexican emperor; and of
his resolution to continue his journey, that he
might confer with their sovereign on that subjects,
as well as on others of greater importance. While
Cortes remained at Tlafcala, receiving homage, in
the name of Don Carlos, from the different towns
and confederates of the republic there was a fur

2 prizing



% 6 $ THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

prizing eruption of fire and smoke from the volcano
of Popocatepec, a very high mountain at the defiance
of eight leagues from the city ; and this extraordinary
discharge overwhelmed the people with
sorrow and confirmation: for, they looked upon
it as a presage of future ills, supposing the sparks
of fire to be the souls of tyrants that came abroad
to chastize the earth, and that the gods being angry,
employed them as the instruments of their vengeance.
Magifcatzin and some of the chief noblemen
were employed in rehearsing these idle fancies
to Cortes, when Diego de Ordaz came to alk
leave to ascend the mountain, and examine this great
secret of nature. The Indians were astonished at
the proposal, and endeavoured to dissuade him from
such a dangerous enterprize; observing that the
eldest of their nation had never ventured to go
above some hermitages of their gods, about the
middle of the eminence, and that the dreadful
roaring and trembling forbad all approach to the
top of the mountain. This account increased the
eagerness of Diego de Ordaz, and Cortes complied
with his request, that the Tlafcalans might
have a fresh proof of the superior courage of the Spaniards.
Ordaz, accompanied by two soldiers and
some principal Indians, who offered to attend him
as far as the hermitages, set out on this expedition,
and found the bottom of the mountain beautified
on all Tides with green trees, which, for a confiderable
way upwards, cover the hill; then, the
earth grows barren by degrees, the snow lying all
the year in those places to which the fun and fire
have no access, and the other parts whitened with
the ashes discharged from the volcano. The Indians
flopped at the hermitages, to which they
never expected to see the Spaniards return ; and
Diego de Ordaz, with his two soldiers, proceeded,
climbing courageously among the rocks, until they

7 reached



THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 269

reached a place at a small distance from the top,
when they felt the earth move violently under them,
and heard the tremendous roaring of the burning
mouth, which in a little time, with redoubled noise,
discharged a vast quantity of fire wrapped up in
smoke, that, darting upwards to a great height, fell
down upon the three Spaniards, in showers of
ashes, so thick and hot, that they were obliged to
seek for shelter in a hollow of the rock, where they
were almost shifted. But Diego de Ordaz, perceiving
the earthquake was paid, encouraged his
companions by his example to prosecute their discovery,
until reaching the very mouth of the volcano,
about a quarter of a league in circumference,
he observed at the bottom a very great mass of
fire, which seemed to boil like some Shining metal
in fusion. With this account he returned safe,
to the astonishment of the Indians, whose esteem
for the Spaniards was increased by this adventure ;
and tho it was at first considered as a rash curiosity
in Ordaz, it afterwards proved of Hgnal service
In the course of the expedition : for, Cortes, from
this discovery* found a great quantity of sulphur
in the mountain, of which he made gun-powder,
when it was very much wanted by the army; and
the emperor ennobled this action, by giving Or
daz the burning mountain for his arms.

Cortes having spent twenty days at Tlafcala, during
which, he wa Q entertained with festivals, dances
and seats of agility, fixed the day for his departure,
and seemed i dined to take the road of
Cholula : but his choice was opposed by the T lass
who reinforced the arguments formerly used
by the Zempoallans, with saying that Cholula was a
sacred place, containing four hundred temples, and
such malignant gods that they terrified the world
with prodigies; and therefore it would be dangerous
to enter their territories, without some assurance

N 3 of




2 7 -o THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

of their being propitious. Before any refutation
was taken on this head, new ambassadors arrived
from Montezuma, with another present, and per
ms sion to the Spaniards to proceed by the way of
Cholula, where he had provided quarters for the army.
The Tlafcalans no sooner heard of this proposal,
than they concluded there was treachery in
the case ; and Magifcatzin, who had a very warm
affection for Cortes, repeated his remonstrances with
such demonstrations of concern, that Cortes called
a council in his presence, where, after mature deliberation,
it was agreed that they could not possibly
avoid the road proposed by Montezuma, without discovering
their suspicion of his sincerity : that, whether
this was well or ill founded, it would be improper
to disclose it, and no less dangerous to leave
traitors behind them; so that it was necessary for
them to go to Cholula, to discover the intentions of
tie Mexican emperor, and add new reputation to
their arms, by chastising the perfidy of his subjects.
Magifcatzin, tho be submitted to the superior judgment
of the Spaniards, begged leave to alienable the
troops of the republic, that they might be ready to
alii ft their friends: and Herman consented with reluctance
to this proposal, which argued such concern
and affection.

The Tlafcalans were not mistaken in their opinion
of Montezuma. That prince, terrified at theviflo-
ries of the Spaniards, and ashamed to employ his armies
against such an handful of people, resolved to
destroy them by fraud, and chose Cholula as the scene
of his artifice. Yet the inhabitants of that city seem
to have been novices in dissimulation : for, they neglected
to send deputies to Cortes, who complained
to the Mexican ambassadors of this mark of disrespect;
and When they were apprised of his displeasure,
they sent four persons of no consideration, in
such mean equipage, that the Spanifh general refused




THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 271

fed to admit them into his presence. The day of
his departure being come, he arose early in the morning
to draw up his own men and the Zempoallan
auxiliaries, and was not a little surprized to End the
whole force of the republic, and her allies, already
in the field, to an incredible number; the several
commands being distinguished by the colour of
their feathers, and the difference of their ensigns,
representing eagles, lions, and other fierce animals.
Their chiefs coming to Cortes, gave him to understand,
that they were raised by the republic, to serve
under his command, and follow his banners as far
as Mexico: and tho he acknowledged their care and
session with the warmest expressions of gratitude*
he was at pains to convince them that it would be
improper to march with such an army, when his errand
was peace; and, after he had chosen feme companies
to follow him, the rest were persuaded to remain
at 7 scala, ready to march to his assistance
upon any emergency. With' six thou fond of the
republics troops, joined to his own army, Cortes
began his march towards Cholula, distant about
five leagues from Tlafcala, and that same evening
halted near a pleasant river, within three miles of
the town, which he did not chuse to enter by night.
Here he was visited by other deputies from the city,
of eminent rank and honourable appearance, who
brought a present of provisions, and delivered their
embassy, the purport of which was, to excuse their
caciques, who had omitted waiting upon him at
Tlafcala, because he was then in the midst of their
enemies, and to welcome him and his people to
their city, which was rejoiced at an opportunity of
(hewing its respect to such honourable guests. I Servan
received them graciously, and admitted their
excuse, tho he was far from being convinced of
their sincerity ; and, next day, he continued his
march towards the city with great vigilance, ben

4 cause




272 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

cause the inhabitants seemed so slow in coming out
to receive him. However, as he approached the
town, the caciques and priests appeared, with a
numerous attendance of unarmed people, and met
him with stich seeming reverence and joy, as might
have imposed upon the most discerning eye : but,
when they perceived the body of Tlafcalans that
marched in the rear, their countenances changed,
and a disagreeable murmur arose among their chiefs,
the cause of which Donna Marina being ordered to
demand, was answered, that the Tlafcalans being
their enemies could not enter the city in arms;
they therefore earnestly entreated that Cortes would
order them to return, that their presence might be
no impediment to the peace. He was a little disconcerted
at this demand, which, however, was so
reasonable in itself, that he desired the Tlafcalans
to take their quarters without the city, until he
should be able to penetrate into the designs of the
Cholulans; and they, without hesitation, agreed to
make their barracks without the walls, in a place
where they should be at hand to succour their friends
in case of necessity; so that the people of Scrofula
were entirely satisfied with this disposition. The
entry of the Spaniards into Cholula was like that of
Tlafcala, They palled through an innumerable
croud of people, who rent the air with acclamations
: the women brewed and presented nosegays,
the caciques and priests welcomed them with reverences
and perfumes, while a variety of instruments
increased the noise, and every thing seemed to denote
an universal joy, which the Spaniards, who entered
full of jealousy, began to think facere.

The city, which for its beauty was compared to
Valladolid, flood in an open and delightful plain,
containing twenty thousand inhabitants within the
walls, and an equal number lived in the suburbs.
It was greatly frequented by strangers, as a sanctuary




THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO, 273

mary of the gods, and an emporium of merchandise :
the streets were spacious and well planned, the buildings
greater and of better architecture than those of
Tlafcala, adorned with sumptuous towers, that
shewed the multitude of their temples: but the inhabitants
were more cunning than warlike, consisting
chiefly of merchants and mechanics.

The quarters provided for Cortes, were three or
four large buildings, contiguous to each other, large
enough to contain the Spaniards and Zempoal.lans:
and as for the Tlafcalans, they pitched upon a
place, at a little distance from the town, which they
secured with some works, forming guards, and placing
sentinels, in imitation of their european friends,
from whole praCtice they had by this time improved
in military affairs.

During the first: three or four days, there was nothing
but the appearance of friendship and tranquillity;
but then, provisions grew gradually scarce,
and the entertainments and attendance of the caciques
ceased all at once. Motezuma’s ambassadors
held private conferences with the priests, and
the people could not help expressing a kind of scorn
and distaste in their countenances, These suspicious
circumstances awakened the jealousy of the
Spaniards, and Cortes was actually employed in
contriving some means to be informed of the intention
of the Cholulans, when the whole design was
discovered by accident. Donna Marina had contracted
a friendship for an old Indian woman of note,
who returned her affection with interest; this lady
coming one morning to her apartment, begged, with
marks of great earnestness and affliction, that she
would immediately forsake those abominable (rangers,
and repair to her house, where flies should find
entertainment and protection. Donna Marina perceiving
there w T as something extraordinary in this
request, dissembled her inclination, bemoaned her

N 5 captivity.





274 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO:

captivity, accepted her kind offer, and acted her
part with such dexterity, that the Indian lady, believing
her sincere, told her plainly, that there was no
time to be lost, for the Spaniards were devoted to
destruction ; that Montezuma had provided twenty
thousand Mexicans, who were at a mali distance,
ready to secure the success of the design ; of these, six
thousand chosen men had already entered the city, in
mali parties; that abundance of arms was distributed
among the inhabitants, who had carried up
„ great quantities of stones to the tops of their houses,
and cut deep trenches across the streets, in which
sharp stakes were fixed, and slightly covered with
earth, for the destruction of the horses ; that Mote
zama had resolved to make an end of all the Christians;
but had given orders that some of them
should be taken alive, to satisfy his curiosity, and
zeal for religion ; and, that he had presented the
city of Cholula with a golden drum, curiously hollowed,
to excite their courage and industry on this
occasion. Donna Marina having gained this intelligence,
said, she was ready to attend her kind deliverer;
and, on pretence of going to fetch her jewels,
went immediately and related the whole conspiracy
to Cortes, who ordered the Indian woman to
be seized, and, by dint of threats, extorted from hera
confession of all the particulars. He was, at the
same time, warned by some Tlafcalan soldiers, who
came in the disguise of peasants, and desired he
would be upon his guard ; for, from their quarters,
they had seen the Cholulans carrying their
women and effects to the neighbouring; villages.
He likewise understood, that they had in the morning
celebrated a sacrifice of ten children, male and
female, a ceremony never performed, except when
they were on the eve of some military action. Their
design was also confirmed by the report of two or
shreeZempoallans, wl o, in (trolling about the streets.


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 27$

had by accident discovered the trenches, and some
works made to guide the horses to unsuspected precipices.


Herman Cortes, in order to justify his conclude,
by the testimony of some unexceptionable witnesses
of their own nation, sent for three of the chief
priests, who were of great authority with the caciques
and the people, and, discoursing with them
separately, complained of their treason, the circumstances
of which he explained, without disclosing
the authors of his information : so that they, believing
him a deity who penetrated into the thoughts of
rien, acknowledged the truth of what he alledged,
and laid the blame upon Montezuma, as the author
of the whole contrivance. These priests being secretly
imprisoned, and Motezuma’s ambassadors excluded
from all communication with the people,.
Cortes assembled his captains, and, having made
them acquainted with the nature of the conspiracy,
proposed a scheme for punishing the perfidy of the
Cholulans, to. which they unanimously gave their
alien t. In consequence cf this plan, he Signified to
the magistrates that he should depart next day, demanded
provisions for his march, Indians of burthen
for his baggage, and a reinforcement of two
thousand armed men to join the Tlafcalans and Zem-
pallas for his service. These laid he demanded
with a view of disuniting their forces ; and they
chearfully granted his request, in order to introduce
among his troops concealed enemies, whom they
could use as occasion should offer. Orders-were
given to the Tlafcalans to draw near the city at
the dawn of day, and, at the first discharge of the
fire arms, to enter the town and join the Spaniards,
who, with the ZempoalJans, were made acquainted
with the nature of the service in which they
would be employed. At night, the quarters were
secured with guards and sentinels for the occasion y

N 6 and









276 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

and Cortes, sending for Motezuma’s ambassadors
told them as a secret, which he imparted through
intimacy and friendship, that he had discovered a
conspiracy, formed against him by the caciques and
citizens of Cholula, whom he was resolved to punish
for their perfidious breach of hospitality, the
more because the principal conspirators had not only
confessed their crime, but even sought to excuse
it, by saying they had received orders and assistance
from Montezuma, to destroy the Spaniards in that
infamous manner: he therefore took this opportunity
of communicating his refutations t6 them, that
they might be apprised of his reasons, and assured
that he was not so much provoked by their treacherous
intention towards him, as by their presumption
in authorizing their crime with the name of
the emperor.

The ambassadors, tho overwhelmed with terror
and confusion, protested they knew nothing of the
conspiracy, and endeavoured to save the credit of
their prince; and Cortes, whole interest it was to
seem ignorant of Motezuma’s intention, rejoiced in
having this opportunity of raising the reputation of
his arms, in defeating .the arts of the Mexican prince,
the weakness of whose resolution plainly appeared
in these efforts of deceit.

Early in the morning came the tameness, with
feme provisions, tho J in small quantity; and afterwards,
the armed Indians, exceeding the number
that Cortes had demanded: these he distributed into
the several courts of his quarters, separating them
on pretence of forming his battalions in his usual
manner. They being secured, he put his men in
order, and mounting his horse, summoned the caciques
to appear : when they were assembled, he told
them, with a loud and terrible voice, (his words being
interpreted by Donna Marina) that their con
piracy being discovered, he would now inflict the

punishment*


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 277

punishment, by the rigour of which, they should
learn to their coll, how much it concerned them to
maintain the peace which they had so treacherously
conspired to infringe. Scarce had he begun to
speak, when they retired with great expedition to
join their own forces, insulting him with threats and
abuse, which they uttered as they fled. He then
commanded his infantry to fall upon their soldiers,
whom he kept divided in the squares, all of whom
were soon destroyed, except a few, who flung themselves
from the walls and escaped. This laugh
ter being finished, he gave the signal for the Tlafea-
lans to move; and the army advanced slowly into
the principal street, after he had left a necessary
guard in the quarters, and detached force Zempo-
allan to discover the trenches, that the horse might
avoid the danger. Mean while the Cholulans called
in the Mexicans, and joined in a great square
distinguished by three temples, polled a number of
people on the tops of the towers and in the porches,
while the rest were divided into several bodies to engage
the Spaniards : but, just as the troops of Cortes
entered the square, and the charge was given,
the Tlafcalans closing with the enemy's rear, they
were put into such dread and disorder, that they
could not fly, and knew not how to defend themselves,
so that they fell in heaps without resistance.
The steps and terraces of the temples were covered
with multitudes of armed men ; and the Mexicans,
who undertook the defence of those places, found
themselves so incumbered that they could hardly
turn, and had scarce room to shoot their arrows,
Cortes, advancing to the largest temple, commanded
his interpreters to proclaim free passage and pardon
to all such as would voluntarily come down and
surrender; and this proffer, tho twice repeated,
being rejected by all but one Indian, he ordered the
artillery to batter, and the towers to be set on fire ;


278 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

so that great numbers perished in the ruins and conflagration.
The other temples being destroyed in
the same manner, the Spaniards marched through
the whole city, and above six thousand natives and
Mexicans were slain. The Tlafcalans were very
disorderly in pillaging the town, and in particular
fell upon the magazines of fait, some loads of which
they immediately sent to their own city, remembering
the necessities of their country even in the midst
of such confusion. Cortes, having assigned quarters
to them within the city, retired to his own lodgings,
where ordering the principal people of the town,
whom they had taken prisoners, together with the-priests
and Indian woman whom he kept confined,
to be brought into his presence, he expressed his
concern at being obliged to inflicts so severe a punishment,
allured them he had laid aside his displeasure,
published a general pardon, and begged the
caciques would endeavour to re-people the city, by
calling back the fugitives, and encouraging those
who were concealed to come forth. The Indians
could scarce believe themselves at liberty, tho they
kissed the earth in token of acknowledgment and
submission. The ambassadors congratulated Cortes
on the success of the day, and their compliments
were graciously received by the general, who wisely
temporized in this manner, rather than run the
risque of Motezuma’s open resentment: and the citizens,
encouraged by the lenity of the Spaniards,
returned to their houses, and opened their (hops, so
that the tumult immediately subsided into obedience
and tranquillity.

On the day after the action, Xicotencal arrived
with twenty thousand men, which the republic had
sent to the assistance of the Spaniards, who always
found that nation friendly and faithful; but Cortes,
having entertained them with the warm eft acknowledgments,
told their general, that as he intended

very


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 279 .

very soon to begin his march to Mexico, it would
be improper to provoke Montezuma, by bringing into
his dominion such a number of his declared enemies
: and Xicotencal, owning that his remonstrance
was just, promised to retire, and keep the troops in
readiness for his service when occasion should require.
But, before they returned, Cortes mediated
a peace between the republic and Cholula, by which
wise conduct he opened a way for the Tlafcalans to
supply him with succours, and removed all impediment
to his retreat, in case the success should not
answer his expectation.

The day fixed for his departure from Cholula
now drawing near, some of the Zempoallans desired
leave to return to their own home; and Cortes
granting their request without hesitation, and
having thanked them for their good services, took
this opportunity of sending some presents to their
cacique, to whose care he recommended the Spaniards
who were left in his districts; and at the same
time he wrote to Juan de Efcalante a short account
of his success, desiring him to strengthen Vera Cruz
with additional fortifications, not so much from
fear of the Indians, as of Diego Velasquez, to whose
restless ambition he was no stranger. About this
time new ambassadors arrived from Montezuma, who
being informed of what had passed at Cholula, and,
desirous of avoiding all suspicion of having had any
concern in the affair, took this method of thanking
Cortes for chastising those traitors, who had added
a part so unworthy of the subjects of such a prince :
and this message was accompanied with a present of
great value ; his design being to lead the Spaniards
into a blind security, so as that they might fall into
another ambush which he had prepared for them
in their rout.


C H A P,


280 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.


CHAP. XV.

Cortes discovers and baffles a treacherous design of the
Mexicans \ Montezuma is dispirited by his oracles y
the Spaniards proceed to the parts of the great lake ;
the general is visited by the king of Tezeuco , and arrives
at that city ; from thence he marches to Ista -
palapa .

A After a stay of fourteen days at Cholula,
Cortes proceeded on his inarch, and the fire
night quartered in a village in the jurisdiction of
Guajozingo, to which the chiefs of that government
and the neighbouring towns repaired with
presents and provisions; and among these people
Cortes found the same complaints of Montezuma, as
in the more remote provinces: nor was he sorry to
see these humours extend so near the heart of the
empire, well knowing that a prince cannot he very
formidable, who, by losing the love of his subjects,
is diverted of the surest defence of a sovereign. Next
day, he prosecuted his march over a very craggy
mountain adjoining to the volcano ; proceeding with
great caution, in consequence of the advice he received
from one of the caciques of Guajozingo,
who told him, that the Mexicans had placed a great
ambuscade on the other side of the mountain; that
they had flopped up the high road leading down to
the province of Chaleo, and opened another ending
in natural precipices, that the Spanifh army, being
intangled in difficulties, might be suddenly charged
when their horses could be of no service, and the
foot have no room to form. Although Cortes was
highly incensed at the treachery of the Mexicans,
he stifles his resentment; and, when he reached the-top
of the mountain, perceiving the two roads by
the description he had received, he, with great

composure*


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO, ' 281

composure, turned to the Mexican ambassadors,
and asked the meaning of that appearance : for, one
was blocked up with trees and Hones, and the other
newly made. They answered, that the new road
was levelled for his convenience, and the other
if opt up, because naturally more deep and difficult.

You are but little acquainted with the genius of
44 my nation ; (replied Herman very calmly) they
44 will march in this road you have broke, for no
44 other reason than its difficulty : for, of two things,
44 the Spaniards always chuse that which is lead
44 easy 5 So saying, he desired his Indian friends
to march before him, and clear the way, by removing
the obstacles to his passage : and his command
was instantly executed, to the amazement of the ambassadors,
who never dreamed that he suspected their
design. But, the Indians in ambuscade, perceiving
the Spaniards marching in the royal road, concluded
they were discovered, and began to retire in
disorder and consternation; so that Cortes descended
into the plain without opposition, and palled the
night in force homes, built for the entertainment of
Mexican merchants, who frequented the fairs of
Cholula.

*•

Montezuma, in the mean time, dispirited by these
disappointments, lost his courage, and grew daily
more and more devout: he frequented the temples,
redoubled the sacrifices of human blood; and, at
length, assembling his magicians and sorcerers, commanded
them, upon pain of death and torture, to
take the field, and either overcome or flupify the
Spaniards by the force of enchantment. In obedience
to his command, several companies of necromancers
set out for the road of Chaleo, where having
performed their conjurations without success,
they returned and told Montezuma, that the god
Telcatlepuca, from whom proceeded plagues, famine,
and other chastisements of heaven, had appeared



2$2 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

feared to them, in a garment girt with a rope of
wicker, and, with a frowning aspects, declared that
the ruin of Montezuma was decreed, and the desolation
of the empire at hand. The king was so astonished
at this dreadful report, that he flood speechless
for a confiderable length of time; then, summoning
all his fortitude to his aid, and laying aside
his native fierceness, “ If our gods forsake us, (said

he) let the Grangers come, and the heavens fall
6( upon our heads : to turn our backs upon misfortune,

would be dishonourable.” After a little
pause, he added, “ I lament the old men, women,
6i and children, who cannot defend themselves
and with these words a flood of tears ran down his
cheeks.

From this moment he began to make preparations
for the entertainment and entry of the Spaniards;
and the whole discourse of Mexico turned
upon their great passions, the prodigies by which
their coming had been foretold, the marks they bore
of those oriental men who were described in their
prophecies, and the despondency of their own gods,
who now seemed to abandon their dominion to a deity
of superior power. These topics of conversation
produced a prepossession, that was absolutely necessary,
to enable an handful of men to penetrate to
the very court of such a potent and absolute prince,
whose subjects revered him even to adoration.

From the houses where Cortes quartered his troops
on the other side of the mountain, he advanced the
following day to a snail village in the jurisdiction
of Chaleo, about two leagues from the former encampment,
and there he was visited by the principal
cacique of the province, and others of the neighbourhood,
who brought presents and provisions;
and, when unobserved by the Mexican ambassadors,
complained to Herman, as to a superior being, of
the tyranny of Montezuma, They set forth the

grievous


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 283

grievous load of taxes they bore; and added, with
tears in their eyes, that, not contented with their effects,
he took their women as a tribute to his lull,
and that of his ministers; so that the daughter found
no security in the mother's arms, nor was the wife
protected in the bed of her husband, Cortes heard
them with compassion, and comforted them with
hope of relief; and next day, purified his march for
four leagues, through a pleasant country, adorned
with beautiful groves and gardens, until he arrived
at a village in America, built on a creek of the
great lake, where he chose his lodging for the night.
Hither resorted the Mexicans, with their arms and
military ornaments, to such a number as awakened
the suspicion of Cortes, who, in order to keep them
at a proper distance, commanded force fire arms and
pieces of artillery to be fired in the air, the report
of which, attended with flame and smoke, obliged
them to retire with precipitation.

In the morning, the general was visited by prince
Cacumatzin, nephew to Montezuma, and lord of
Tezeuco, a young man of an agreeable presence,
who was carried on the shoulders of some Indians
of his own family, in a chair adorned with a variety
of plumage very curiously diversified. So soon
as he alighted, his servants went before, to sweep
the ground, and push back the people on each side :
and Cortes going to the door of his apartment, received
him with a profound reverence, which the
prince returned by touching the earth, and afterwards
his lips with his right hand ; then taking his
place with an easy air, he welcomed him and all his
captains; informed him of the amicable disposition
of Montezuma ; and mentioned the difficulties that
opposed his coming to Mexico, proceeding from
that yearns barrenness, by which the people were
very much distressed ; so that strangers must be but
ill accommodated where the natives wanted necessary




284 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

ry subsistence. To this declaration Cortes answered,
that the king, his mailer, having Tome reasons
of high import, for offering his friendship to Montezuma,
and communicating several affairs which,
essentially regarded his person and dignity, he, his
servant, did with great respects accept the liberty he
had received to deliver his embassy; without being
in pain for the present scarcity; as the Spaniards required
but little nourishment, and were inured to
surfer, and even despise those inconveniences which
distressed men of an inferior species. Cacumatzin
made no other attempt to divert the resolution of
Cortes, from whom he received some jewels of glass,
with abundance of joy and acknowledgment, and
accompanied the army as far as Tezeuco, the capital
of his dominion, from whence he proceeded to
Mexico, with an account of his embassy.

Tezeuco was one of the greatest cities of the empire,
and even vied in grandeur with Mexico itself
The principal front was extended on the border of
a spacious lake, at the beginning of the Mexican
causey, by which the general pursued his march
without halting, intending to advance three leagues
farther to Iztacpalapa, from whence he could next
day enter Mexico, in good time. In this part, the
breadth of the causey amounted to twenty feet, composed
of stone and lime, with some works on the
surface ; and midway upon it was another town,
of about two thousand houses, called Quitlavaca,
founded in the water, whence it afterwards acquired
the name of Venezuela or Little Venice. Here the
cacique, with a grand retinue, came out to receive
Cortes, whom he desired to honour his city that
night with his presence, and pressed the invitation,
with such cordiality, that Herman thought proper to
comply with his entreaties; especially as his slay
mig t enable him to make observations : for, having
now a nearer view of the danger, he suspected


THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 285

that the Mexicans would break the causey, or take
away the bridges to cbdrudt his march. From this
place might be seen the greatest part of the lake,
beautified with towns and causes, towers and pinnacles,
trees and gardens, that seemed to swim upon
the water; besides, a multitude of Indians approaching
in their canoes to behold the Spaniards 5
.and hill a greater number on the battlements of the
houses, forming a prospers extremely noble, and a
novelty surprising beyond imagination.

The army was well accommodated in these quarters,
where the people entertained them with a
chearful aspect and polite demeanor, that spoke the
neighbourhood of the court: yet the cacique could
not help expressing by hints his hatred to Montezuma,
and the desire he had to be freed from the intolerable
yoke of his dominion.

Next morning, a little after break of day, the
Spaniards formed themselves upon the causey, which
in that part was wide enough to allow eight horses
to march in front; and the army, confiding of four
hundred and fifty Spaniards, and six thousand Indian
allies, continued their march to Iztacpalapa, a
place confiding of ten thousand houses, two and
three dories high, part of which were built upon
the lake, but chiefly on the shore, in a mod delightful
and commodious situation. Before the Spaniards
reached this city, the lord of it, accompanied
by the princes of Magifcatzingo and Cuyoacan,
towns bordering upon the lake, came forth to meet
Cortes, with three separate presents of fruits, fowls,
and other provisions, with some pieces of gold ; and,
when they entered the city, they were welcomed
with loud acclamations Their lodging was prepared
in the princess own palace, which was large
and well built, with didn't apartments both above
and below, among which were many chambers with
flat roofs of cedar, and furnished with cotton hangings



286 THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

kings curiously painted. Here were many fountains
of excellent water, conveyed by aqueducts from the
neighbouring mountains, and among a great number
of large well cultivated gardens, was one far
more spacious and beautiful than the rest, set apart
for the diversion of the cacique. It abounded with
fruit-trees, disposed into large walks; and there was
a parterre with divisions made of canes, interwoven
and covered with odoriferous herbs ; besides several
well cultivated squares, adorned with variety of
flowers. In the middle of the garden was a quadrangular
pond of fresh water, encompassed with a wall,
having flairs on all sides to the bottom, so large that
each side extended four hundred paces; and in this
reservoir were kept the mod delicate fish, while it
served as a retreat to several sorts of water-fowl.


End of the First Volume




















*A Compendious AUTHENTIC and ENTERTAINING VOYAGE S,,Digefied in a Chronological Series.,The whole exhibiting A clear View of the CUSTOMS, MANNERS, RELIGION, GOVERNMENT, COMMERCE, and Natural HISTORY of molt Nations,in the KNOWN WORLD. illustrated and adorned with a Variety of genuine Charts,,Maps, Plans, Heads, &c. curiously engraved the SECOND EDITION.,VOL. II. LONDON: Printed for W. Strain ; J. Livingston: W. JOHNSTON;. J.DODSLEY; T.CASLON; T.LOWNDES;- W. .Nicol; RICHARDSON and Urquhart; T.,JEFFERIES; and B. COLLINS at Salilbury.,MDCCLXVI,
ZSI.I~~~ Â· YP~~~a.Ij'I 1 I~~~~ ,',N~~' '~~~ ) ~-: 11~~L ,,g
C Ille Action Toy A Ces. The Conquest of MEXICO, by,HERNANDO CORTES.,C H A P. XVI. His entrance into Mexico 'and meeting with lAMoiezgt;,ma, who afterwards confers with him at his quam. terms and grants an audience in the royal palace. O N the 8th day of November, in the year,1519, early in the morning, the army be. gan its march in the accustomed order, leaving on one side the city of Magifcat- lingo, situated on the water, and on the other Cuyoacan, until at length they discovered the great city of Mexico, elevated above the rest with an air of dominion. Then they had marched about half way, they were met by above four thou sand nobles and officers of the city, who came out to receive them; and, having paid their obedience advanced again before the troops. At a,VOL- I , B little
little distance from Mexico was a bulwark of'ftone which took up 211 the breadth of the causeway, upon another part of which were the gates, terming.'- by a draw-bridge, which, with a second fortified' tion, defended the entrance of the city. As for as the nobles paled to the o'he: side of the bridge, they fell back, making a lane for the army to march and then appeared a spacious street of houses uni forms built, the windows and battlements of which were full of spectators, though the street itself was quite empty, by order of Motezuma, who resolve to come and receive Cortes in person, as a mark of particular favour the Spaniards had scarce entered the city, wher they Ferci:red the first tromp of the royal retinue. ccnf'i;in2 of two hundred noblemen of Motezuma's family, uniformly clothed, and adorned with great plumes of feathers : they approached in two files, a;.ith remarkable silence and composure, without lifting their eyes from the ground, and as they drew near, fll back on each side. Then appeared afar off a larger company, better dressed, in the midst of which was Motezuma, carried on the shoulders of his favourites, in a chair of burnished gold, surrounded with various plumage beautifully arranged. Four persons of distinction held over him a canopy of green feathers, interwoven with ornaments of silver, and he was preceded by three officers with golden rods, which they lifted up'from time to time as a signal of the king's approach, that all might prostate themselves and hide their heads. Cortes dismounted before they met, and Motezuma alighting frcm his chair at the same time, some In diana went before, spreading carpets, that his fa cried feet might not touch the ground. He came forward with a slow and solemn pace, leaning upon his cousins the princes of Itacpaiapa and Tezeuco,,was
THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO. 3 was of a good presence, about forty years of age, of a middle nature, and a constitution rather delicate than robust. His note was aquiline, his complexion remarkably fair among the Indians, his hair. reached a little way below his ears, and his eyes were lively, though his look seemed majestic and thoughtful. He wore a mantle of the finest cotton, tied carelessly on his shoulders, that covered the great-est part of his body, the end trailing upon the ground, and his robe was in a manner covered with gold, pearls, and precious stones. In lieu of a crown, he wore a kind of mitre of light gold, and on his feet were shoes of the same metal, bound with studded straps, that came round part of his leg, like the military sandals of the Romans.,Cortes advanced with becoming haste, and made a profound reverence, which Motezuma returned in the manner of his country, to the astonishment of the Indians, who had never before known such an instance of condescension in any of their princes, much less in their emperor, who would scarcely bend his neck to the gods. Herman had put over his coat of mail a chain of glass, curiously set to gather, in imitation of diamonds and emeralds, which he reserved as a present for the first audience; and, being close to the king, he threw it about his neck. The princes who supported him, interposed with some emotion, signifying, thdit-it was not lawful to approach so near the emperor; but-montezuma reprimanded them, and accepted the present as a jewel of inestimable value, in acknowledgment for which, he, with his own hands, put upon sherman's neck, a very rich, ornament of Crimson shells, join ed together with great art, at every ore of which hung four crabs of gold, of excellent workmanship. Cortes made a short speech fitted to the occasion, and Motezuma having answered it concisely, com-,1 2 mandcd
handed one of his supporters to conduct the stranger to his lodging, while he himself leaning on the other, went to his chair, and returned to the pa lace the quarters provided for the Spaniards were in one of the royal houses, built by the father of Mo tezuma, so large as to lodge the whole army: the walls were of stone, very thick, and flanked With some towers, which rendered it very defensible; some chambers were furnished with cotton hang kings, of various colours; the chairs were of wood, each being cut out of one piece; the bedsteads were provided with curtains like pavilions, the bottoms of the beds were of palm-mats, and the boilers of the same rolled up. Cortes, who entered the quarters a little after twelve at noon, having distributed his guards, and lodged his artillery, found a splendid banquet prepared for him and his captains, and great store of provisions for the soldiers, with ma ny Indians who served them in profound silence and exact order. In the evening he was visited by Motezuma, who came with the same pomp and equipage we have already described, and was re civet in the principal square of the house, by Her nan, who attended him at the door of his apart ment, where he made a profound reverence. Mo tczuma, taking his seat with an air of majesty, or tered a chair to be brought for Cortes, and the company retiring to one side, he is said to have spoke to this effect," Before you deliver your embassy, illustrious " captain and valiant stranger, let you and I lay,a' aside those prejudices we have imbibed of each " other, from the misinformation of common re " port. In some places you have been told that I " am a god, that my power is invincible, and my "' riches immense that my palaces are covered,' with
As with gold, and that the earth groans beneath the A weight of my treasure: upon other occafions'ypu (" have heard that I am a tyrant, unjust, insolent, "' and cruel; but you have been imposed upon by ", both representations: this arm of flesh and blood cc shews that I am mortal, and there walls and roofs " of stone and lime, demonstrate that my. palaces 5 are not made or covered with gold. From these ' instances you may conclude, that the account ot,my vices is likewise exaggerated, by the malice " of my enemies and ingratitude of my rebellious " fubjtts. In like manner we have received varia vous informations of your nature and pondus. Some have affirmed, that you are gods who grasp ' the thunder, command the elements, and coins pet the wild beat to obey your directions; others " have represented you as proud, vindictive, volume tous, and transported with an insatiable thirst *( after the gold which our country produces: yet ; now I see I have been alike deceived by there dis serene accounts. You are made like other men, "though distinguished from us by the peculiarities ' of your osA'n country. The beasts that obey you " are large deer, tamed and trained up to discipline. " Your arms, that resemble lightening, I con " clive to be barrels of metal, and their effet, like " that of our Saracens, proceeds from compress fed air striving for a vent: the fire, noise, and " smoke are owing to inchantment. I am likewise " informed by my ambassadors and servants, that " you are courteous and religious, and yourrefent- ( ments are founded on-reason that you are valiant and inured to hardships, and, among other "virtues, display liberality, which never exists in covetous mind. In a word, we believe that the "great prince you obey is descended from Que ' zalcoal, lord of the seven caves of the Navatla-,B 3 " ques,
hues, and lawful king of those seven nations thai Â·' ave rise to the Mexican empire: for, from extradition of many ages, we know that he depart " ed from these countries, to conquer new regions,in the east, leaving a promise, that in process ol "time his descendants should return, to model out " laws and reform our government. Therefore we ' have already determined, .hat all things shall be "done for the honour of your prince, who is the " offspring of such an illustrious progenitor." To this harangue, which was uttered with great gravity, Cortes replied to this purpose: " Sir, True it is, " we have heard different accounts of your charade ter, ;which some have vilified, and others extolled: ' but, as the Spaniards have penetration enough ' to distinguish the colours of discourse, we have ' given no credit either to your rebels or flatterers, i' but come into your presence with full assurance " of your being a great and equitable prince. You C, justly conclude we are mortal, though more va. ( liant and intelligent than your vassals, because ': born in a climate of more powerful influence. ' Our beasts are not deer, but of a species more " force and generous, inclined to war, and aspire ing wil a sort of ambition to the glory of their Â·' masters: and, lazily, our arms are made by hus man industry, without any mixture or help of,magic, an abominable art which we detest and " abhor. I am come to your majesty, as ambaffa- " dor from the most powerful monarch the fun "' fines on from his first rising: he desires to be " your friend and confederate; and though he " might, according to the tradition of your own "' histories, pretend to be more absolute in these " dominions, he makes use of his authority with a " view only to your own advantage, and to con " vince you of your errors in point of religion, " which are altogether dismal and deplorable, in," inasmuch
inasmuch as you have departed from the worship " of the true God, to pay your adoration to ingens bible pieces of wood, the work of your own hands, " representing devils and unclean spirits, to whom,you impiously and inhumanly sacrifice the blood " of your'fellow-creatures." He added other ar moments to persuade the Indian emperor to renounce his barbarous idolatry; and, when he finished his oration, Motezuma rising from his seat, " I ac " kept (said he) with all due acknowledgment, the " confederacy and friendship you propose from the " great descendant of Quezalcoal: but all gods are " good, and yours may be what you say, without " offence to mine. Repose yourselves in the mean " time; you are in your oWn house, where you " shall be served with all punctuality and regard'" He then ordered some Indians, who attended with omit, to bring in a valuable present for Cortes, con sifting of pieces of gold, cotton robes, and other curiosities, and at the same time distributed some jewels among the Spaniards who were present, with an air of chearful generosity next day, the Spanish general demanded audience which being immediately granted, he put on his gayest apparel, without quoting his arms, and set out for the palace with Pedro de Alvarado, Gon za!o de Sandoval, Juan Velasquez de Leon, Diego de Ordaz, and six or seven favourite soldiers. The streets were filled with an innumerable concourse of people, who opened with reverence to let them pals; and amidst their acclamations often pronounced the word Seule. which in their language signified god, an appellation that sounded well in the ears of the Spaniards, whose success depended so much upon the opinion of the Mexicans. At a considerable distance appeared the palace of Motezulna, an immense pile, with thirty gates opening to as many different streets. The principal front took up one whole. 4 side
side of a very spacious parade, and was of black, red and white jasper, well polished and skilfully placed: and over ths gate, in a large shield, were the arms of Motezuma, exhibiting a griffin with its wings extended, holding a tyger in its talons. As the Spaniards approached this entrance, the Indians who accompanied Cortes walked up to one side of it, and then, retiring with a mysterious motion, formed a semicircle, that they might enter by two and two, for they deemed it irreverent to enter the royal palace in a crowd. After having passed three squares, they came to ,Motezuma's apartments: which they admired for their largeness and furniture The Actors were covered with mats, the walls with cotton hangings, interwoven with furs of rab bits; and the innermost rooms were adorned with a kir:d cf taper) made of feathers, beautifully va related and arranged : the roofs were of cypress, cedar. and other odoriferous woods, ornamented with foliage and relieves; and, though the Mexicans knew net the use of nails, the ceilings were con trivet in such a manner, that the planks sustained one another. 'hesse spacious rooms were filled with cfcers, xvho guarded the entrance, according to their rank and quality; and, at the door of the antechamber, waited the nobility and magistrates, :nho received Cortes with great civility, though they detained him uinti-th. e had taken off their .noes and cof.l' robes, and put on wethers of leTs fiery; for, they thought it presumptuous to appear in their richest apparel befor-ee thing,. Motezuma, who appeared standing with all his ensigns of royalty about him, advance, feme fiefs to receive Cortes, who approaching with a low bow, the king laid t i- hands upon hrs shoulders, and saluted the rest of te Spaniards with an obliging look; then, feating,rimfrrif, he differed Cortes and all his attendants to si. anr.d er.ercd into conversation with great f.imi-,liarity,
charity. He asked several questions concerning the nature and politics of the eastern countries, and made very judicious remarks upon the answers of Cortes: then he mentioned the obligation of the Mexicans to the descendant of their first king, and expressed a seeming satisfaction in feeing the pro phecy fulfilled in his reign. Cortes industriously turned the discourse upon religion, and in particular exclaimed with such strength of argument against the horrible ceremony of human sacrifices, that the king, party convinced by his reasons, from that day banished dishes of human flesh from his table; the uh he said it was no cruelty, to offer to the gods prisoners of war already condemned to death. Indeed, he was so devoted to his own religion, and so proud of the worship it enjoined, that in a few days he conduced Cortes and rome of his principal officers, with father Bartholome, to the chief temple, that they might be eye-witnesses of its mag munificence; but, before they were admitted, he ad modified them to behave with decency and respect: then the gates of this spacious edifice were opened, and he himself explained all the particulars of the worship, with io much ceremony and reverential awe, as excited the laughter of the Spaniards. Here Cortes suffering himself to be transported by unseasonable zeal, Permit me, sir, (cried he) to fix the cross of Christ before there images of the devil, and you (hall see whether they deserve adoration or con tempt. The priests were enraged at this proposal, which also incensed Motezuma, who addressing himself to the Spaniards, observed, that they might have shewn numre respect to his person : then he de sired they would withdraw; and, following them to the threshold, " You may return to your house, "my friends, but I stall stay to ask pardon of my " gods, for having suffered you to proceed so far." Yet, blind as he was to his own errors, he nevers 5 drcanmd
dreamed of tyrannizing over the consciences of other people: on the contrary, he sent his workmen to as fill the Spaniards in fitting up a chapel, in which he and his chiefs frequently attended at mass, praising the humanity of the Christian worship chap. XVII. Descry tis of the city of Mexico; with an account of,the grandeur, wealth and power of the emperor; together w. t a d-tail cf the Mexican government, religion and police.,HE city of Mexico, which contained sixty thousand families, was divided into two parts, one of which, called Tlatelulco, was the habita tion of the meaner sort; whereas the court and no bi;ity resided in the other, known by the appellation of Mexico, which thence extended to the whole. t Blood in a spacious plain, surrounded by high rocks and mountains, from which many firearms and rivulets, descending into the valley, formed fe vernal lakes, and among there two of a larger size, (round which were fifty towns) extending about thirty leagues in circumference, and communicating with each other through openings left in a shone wall that divided them. Over these were wooden bridges, with sluices on each side, to supply the lower lake with the redundancy of the other: the water of the uppermost was clear and sweet, but that of the lower lake was salt like the sea; and this saltness proceeded from the nature of the soil, which contained a great quantity of that principle, which proved very advantageous to the inhabitants border ing upon the lake.,In the middle of this salt lake flood the city of Mexico, in nineteen degrees and thirteen minutes north latitude; yet, the climate was mild unhealthy:
healthy: for, the natural moisture of situation was corrected by seasonable breezes of wind. It. was joined to the main land, by three sumptuous dikes or causeways; the streets were large and straight, and there was a great number of canals. for the convenience of water-carriage, in canoes. and barks of different sizes, of which vests, above fifty thousand belonged to the city. All the pub hic edifices and houses of the nobility were built of stone, and even the habitations of the lower sort, though more mean and unequal, were, as well as the ethers, laid out in such a manner as to form. several parades, in which their merchandize was exposed. The square of Tlatelulco, in which they kept fairs, on cercain'days of the year, though. one of the largess in the world, was on such oc nations, quite filled with tents, containing a va piety of goods, and covered with coarse cotton cloth, which was proof against fun and rain Here, they sold, by barter, jewels, chains of gold,. and different uter;iils of silver curiously wrought,. together with paintings, landscapes made of sea tiers beautifully arranged, different sorts of cloth, drinking cups of a kind of porcelain, fruit, fish,. and all manner of provisions. Mais or cocoa served as money for things of small value; they had no weights, but a variety of measures; and; ins lieu of numbers, certain characters, by which they adjured the prices of merchandize. There was an house appointed for the judges of commerce, who decided all differences among the merchants, and these employed inferior officers to maintain justice and good order in the fair their temples were spacious and stately, parti clearly that which was dedicated to their god of war, called Vitzliputzli, the supreme of all their deities. The silt part of this edifice was a great; square, comprehended within a wall oi hewn stone,,,6 th ,s
the outside of which exhibited wreaths of serpents intertwined. At a small distance from the principal site, was a place of worship, with a flat roof, in which were fixed many large trunks of trees i;. a row, with holes bored in them at equal distances, through which passed several bars run through the heads of men which had been sacrificed.,In each side of the square was a gate, over which food four statues of stone, representing petty god, to whom the people paid reverence as they entered: and though the habitations of the priests and their :servants were built on the inside of this wall, there-as room sufficient left for ten thousand persons to dance in the square upon their solemn fefti- vals.,In the-center flood a lofty tower of stone, fur ji'ied with a fair-cafe, containing one hundred and twenty steps, by which people ascended to the top, which formed a flat pavement forty feet square, beautifully paved with jafper-ftones,- and surround ed with a kind of balustrade, or rails of a serpentine form. On the opening of these rails at the landing place, flood two marble statues well executed supporting two large candlesticks of an ex traordin.ar make. A little farther was a green shone ringing zaout three feet from the pavement, and terminating in an angle, on which the priests extended the miserable victim, while they opened !is breast nd plucked out his heart. Beyond this sone, fronting the blair-cafe, flood a chapel of ex ce-lent workmanship, in which the idol was placed, iron an high altar shrouded with curtains. It was cf a human cure, sitting in a chair, sustained by a blue globe fdrnis d with four rods jetting out from the sides. each terminating in the resemblance of a serpent's head, which the priests placed on their shoulders when they exposed the idol to public view. its ;eat w-s covered with an helmet, composed of,5 plumes,
plumes, inform of a bird, with a bill and cress of burnished gold. Its countenance was horrible, the forehead and nose being swathed with bands of a blue colour: in the right-hand it held a curling ser pent, and in the other four arrows and a shield, with five white plumes placed in the form of a cross. Concerning which ornaments, the Mexicans related many extravagant legends.,On the left hand of this chapel, was another of the same size and form, made for the idol Tlaloch, who was the supposed brother, friend and colleague of that we have already described, and equally re vexed by the Mexicans. The ornaments of both chapels were of inestimable value; and there were in the city, eight temples of nearly the same ar chitecure and wealth. Those of a smaller size :amounted to two thousand, dedicated to as many idols of different names, forms and attributes besides the palace in which Motezuma kept his court, he had several magnificent pleasure-houses; in one of which, a pompous building supported by pillars of jasper, he kept an aviary of birds, remarkable either for their singing or feathers, so numerous, that above three hundred men were em played in attending them. At a little distance from this, was another vail edifice, where his huntsmen resided and took care of his birds of prey, among which some were bred to the game, like our hawks, and here were eagles of extraordinary size and in credible voracity. In the second square of this house, were entertained his wild beasts, confiding of lions, tygers, bears, and Mexican bul's, which are extremely strong, nimble, and ferocious: and over there dens, was a very large apartment for the residence of buffoons and monsters, who were carefully instructed and entertained for the diver lion of the king.,Nor
Nor was the grandeur of Motezuma less con. epicurus in his armories. In one house a number of workmen were employed in making shafts for arrows, grinding flints for the points, and fabricating all sorts of offensive and defensive arms; and in another was the magazine in which they were deposited and curiously disposed, confiding of bows, arrows and quivers, two handed swords edged with flint, darts and javelins, head-pieces, breast-plates, quilted jackets, and bucklers made of impenetrable skins to cover the whole body, and these they car cried, rolled up on their left shoulder?, until they were ready to engage. All there houses were sir nified with spacious gardens well cultivated, pro during a great variety of fragrant flowers and me medicinal herbs set in squares, and adorned with beau tirful summer-houses, together with fountains of sweet water, conveyed from the neighbouring mount tains.,But, of all Motezuma's works, the most remark able was his house of sorrow, to which he retired at the dear of any favourite relation, or in case of any calamity that required a public demonstration of grief: the place was very well calculated for inspiring horrour; the wall, roofs and ornaments were black, and, instead of windows, it was furnished with certain narrow slits which admitted no more light than was sufficient to make the darkness vi bible, and increase :he dreariness of the whole without the city ho had divers pleasant country retreats, and !are forests for the chace of lions and tygers, in which he greatly delighted. A number of men were employed to surround the game, and pontiac. the circle into a certain space, where he berth the combats of his huntsmen-with the wild bears; for, in this exercise the Mexicans were equally daring and dextrous. He had two sorts of guards: one of soldiers, so numerous, that,they
they filled the courts of the palace, and were post ed in bodies at the principal gates; the other of nobles, consisting of two hundred men of distinguished rank, who were obliged to be every day at the palace, to guard his person, and make up the number of his courtiers. This attendance of the nobility was divided between two bodies, that took the duty by turns, comprehending the lords of the whole empire, who were obliged to come to court from the most distant provinces: a scheme con trivet by Motezuma, who, by there means, kept the nobility in great dependance, and became ac quaint with their persons, dispositions and'capa- citie she had two wives, the daughters of tributary princes, who bore the title of queen, and were lodged in separate apartments, with equal splendour and magnificence: but, the number of his concubines exceeded three thousand, culled from the most beautiful women of his whole dominions. These, when laid aside, found husbands of the first qua city ; for, they were generally rich, and deemed highly honoured in having been kept by the emperor He seldom granted audience, and the person who obtained this favour entered barefoot, and made three reverences, saying at the firs, " lord," at the second, " my lord," and at the-third, " great lord !" On there occasions he appeared in great slate surrounded by his counsellors, listened with attention, answered with severity, and seemed pleased at the confusion of the speaker, which - gratified his vanity and pride.,He often ate in public, though always alone, with an affection of solemnity; his table was usually furnished with above two hundred dishes of different meats, some of them very savoury and well seasoned: of there, he chose a certain number for his own use, and ordered the rest to be divided,among
among the nobles of his board. His table was large but low, and he sat on a little stool; the cloth and napkins were of fine cotton, and his dining room was divided in the middle by a rail, which without obstructing the view, kept the croud arA his domestics at distance. Within the rails he wa attended by three or four old favourite servants: th dishes were brought in by twenty women, magna. silently apparelled, who served his meat, and pre. seated him with the cup: and-the discs of fine earthen-ware, as well as the cloths, and napkins, being once used, were divided among the servants-he had cups and'falvers of gold, and sometimes drank out of cocoa and natural shells, richly set with jewels the liquors he drank were of various sorts, some perfumed with the richest odours, others mixed with juice of salutiferous herbs, and a third kind resembling beer made of mais; nor did he want provocative to venery, which he took in the form of confections. Immediately after eating, he used to take a frothy kind of chocolate, and used to ifmoak tobacco perfumed with liquid amber: indeed the juice of this herb was one of the ingredients, with which the priests wrought themselves up to fury and enthusiasm, as often as they were obliged tc- deliver an oracular response. Among other at tenants at his table, were generally three-or four select buff ors, who cic cried him with their ludicrous talents; and after some little repose, he was entertained with music, composed of pipes and sea lÂ£elle, accompanied by voices that sung different compositions, forming a concert not at all disagree able to the ear. The subject was generally the ex p'oit of their ancestors, and the memorable aÃ³cions cf heir kings, w which their children learned by heart in order to preserve them fro: oblivion. They had, besides, merry songs used in dancing,. accompanied
panted with the music of two little drums, made of hollow pieces of wood, of different size and found. There were chiefly used in a dance cal ed' Mitates,- praised at festivals, in which the nobles and plebeians mingled without distinction, gesticulating and shouting, until by drinking to each others health, they were quite intoxicated with that heady liquor already describe dat other times, the people, assembling in the squares and porches of the temples, made matches for shooting at the mark, running races, and wrest. ling. Here might be seen rope dancers performing in a surprizing manner, without the assistance of poles, and numbers playing at ball, under the statue of an idol produced by the priests, as superintendent of that diversion. In a word, the town of Mexico was almost every day entertained with some such spectacles or entertainments, calculated by Mo. tezuma to amuse the imaginations of the people, which otherwise might be employed to his preju- dice the wealth of this emperor, which enabled him to support the expence of his court, and maintain two large armies constantly in the field, arose from the produce of gold and silver mines, the salt-works and other taxes, established from time immemorial, but especially from the contributions levied on the ful)jec, amounting to one third of all that was yearly produced throughout that vast and populous empire. These exactions were collected by officers depending on the tribunal of the royal revenue, 'that resided in the court, and punished the least fraud or neglect, with the loss of life. All the towns in ti e neighbourhood of Mexico furnished men for the king's works,'and fuel for the palace, or other wise contributed at the expence of their communities The tribute of the nobility, consisted in guarding the emperor's person, in serving in histories,
armies, with a certain number of vassals, and in; number of presents, which, though he received then as gifts, they durst not neglect to make. He hac different treasurers for the different kinds of contra. buttons; and the tribunal of the crown revenue, having issued out what was necessary for the ex. pence of the palaces and provisions of war, con versed the overplus into ingots of gold, to the value of which they were no strangers. Betides this tri bunal, there was a council of justice that received appeals from inferior courts, a council of war, and a council of fate, together with judges of com mere, and other' officers, each of whom carried a Staffs a edge of divination. Their trials were summary and verbal; for, as they had no written laws, they were governed by the customs and inst. nations of their ancestors. Murther, theft, adultery or any slight disrespect towards the king or religion, were capital crimes: but, all other misdemeanors were easily pardoned. The children of the plebeians were instructed in public schools; and those of the nobility, in well endowed colle ages, under the king's authority, where they learn ed those rudiments and exercises, which fitted them for the service of the commonwealth, passing through three successive classes; in the first of which, they were taught to decipher the characters and hieroglyphics and repeat the historical songs; in the second, they learned modesty, civility, end polite deportment; and, in the third, they were employ ed in robust exercises, such as carrying weights,, wrestling, managing their arms, suffering hunger and thirst, and refilling the inclemency of the weather Having gradually acquired these qualifications the sons of noblemen, designed for war, were sent as volunteers to the army, in order to accustom themselves to the danger and hardships of a campaign, and were often placed among the,baggage-
baggage-men, with a load of provision on their Shoulders, that their vanity might be mortified, and their bodies inured to fatigue, before they should be enrolled as soldiers, an honour to which none were admitted, except those who had faced the enemy without change of countenance, and given some other proof of valour and intrepidity. Every town had a regulated militia, To that their armies were formed with eases for, the princes, caciques, and governors were obliged to repair to the rendezvous, with a certain quota of soldiers; and it is report ed, as an instance of the grandeur of the Mexican empire, that Motezuma had thirty vassals, each of whom could bring into the field one hundred thou sand armed men. Their troops were better disciplined than those of the other Indian nations; and in order to reward as of valour, the emperor created several orders of knighthood, one of which he himself professed, distinguishing each by a par titular badge and denomination the Mexican year, like ours, confined of three hundred and sixty-five days, divided into eighteen months, twenty days being assigned to each month, so that the whole amounted to three hundred and sixty; the other five, they added at the end of the - year to make it answer the course of the fun. Dur ing these, which they looked upon as days designed for pleasure and vacation, they gave themselves up to idleness and pleasure. They had likewise weeks of thirteen days, with different names; and their ages confided of four weeks of years distributed in a very artful manner. In the center of a great circle, divided into fifty-two degrees, allowing a year for every degree, they painted the fun, from whose rays proceeded four lines of different colours, equal ly dividing the circumference, leaving thirteen de green to each semi-diameter; and there divisions served as signs of their zodiac, upon which the,ages
ages had their revolutions, and the fun his afpeAs, prosperous or adverse, according to the colour ot the line. In a larger circle inclosing the other, they marked with their figures and characters, the accident and chief occurrences of the age: and these secular maps were public instruments, serving for proofs of their history.,'The election of the emperor being made, he was obFged to take the field, and obtain some vic. tory over his enemies or revolted subjects, before he was crowned, or permitted to ascend the throne; and proving himself thus qualified by the success of the enterprize, he returned in triumph, and made his public entry with great tate and solemnity: all the nobility, ministers and priests accompanied him to the temple of the god of war, where he alight ed from his chair, and after having offered the ac customary sacrifice, was clothed in royal robes by the electors, who armed his right hand with a sword of gold, as an ensign of justice, and his left with a bow and arrows, signifying his power and command in war; then the king of Tezeu- co placed the crown upon his head, by virtue of being first elector. This ceremony being per formed, he was harangued by one of the most eloquent magistrates, who congratulated him on his new dignity, in .the name of the empire, and expatiated upon the cares and troubles that attend a throne, as well as upon the duty of a sovereign; then the chief priest approaching, tendered atl oath, by which he engaged to maintain the religion of his ancestors, together with the laws and customs of the empire; to treat his vassals with lenity, to procure seasonable rains, and to prevent inundations sterility, and the malignant influences of the fun and planets. The Mexicans believed the im mortality of the soul, with eternal rewards and punishments in a future slate, and buried gold and,silver
Silver with their dead, to defray the expence of their journey, which they supposed to be long and troublesome: nay, they slew some servants to ac company them, and the wives very often celebrated the exequies of their husbands, by putting them selves to death. Princes were obliged to have mo moments of vast extent; for, the greatest part of their. riches and family were interred with them; and when the king died, the whole number of household officers arid favourites were obliged to attend him to the other world their marriages were celebrated in the following manner. The preliminary contra being fettled, the couple appeared in the temple, and the priest having examined them, touching their mutual in inclination, tied the tip of the woman's veil and the corner of the bridegroom's garment together, as an emblem of the interior tie of affections, and accompanying them, joined in this manner, to their habitation, they went round the fire seven times, then sat down to receive a (hare of the heat, and thus they deemed the marriage accomplished. The bride's portion was requested, and the husband ob lived to restore it in case of a separation, which was often effected by mutual content; in that case, the girls remained with the mother, and the boys' went with the father; and a marriage being thus dissolved, the parties were forbid to join again on pain of death: a wife inflitution, that checked the natural levity of that fickle people the new-born infants were carried with great solemnity to the temples, where the priests received them with certain admonitions, touching the trou boles to which they were born: if they were the sons of nobles, they put a sword into the child's right-hand, and upon his left arm a shield, kept in the temple for that purpose : if of plebeian extraction they put into their hands mechanical instruments:
ments: but, the females of both degrees were pre. seated with a distaff and spindle. This ceremony being performed, they were brought up to the altar, and their privities cut with a thorn or lancet of flint, so as to yield some drops of blood, which was no sooner shed, than they sprinkled them with water, ejaculating certain invocations during this baptism. The Mexicans had also a sort of communion, which the priests administered on certain days of the year, dividing into small bits an idol made of flour and ho ney, which they called the god of penitence: nor were they without jubilees, processions, offerings of incense, and other forms of divine worships HAP. XVIII. Co-tes receives an alarming letter from Sera Cruz,,in confluence of ubich he assembles a council; the result of it; takes a very bold resolution; seizes A'lotezuma, who quietly Submits ; the people's cela. hours cunningly appeased by Cortes, who endeavours ineic/ually te err' corn; he pero's cover; the authors of the disturbance at Sera Cruz punished; Motezuma fettered, but freed in a shirt time. A LL these circumstances the Spaniards ob-served with admiration, which, however, they were at pains to conceal; and the Mexicans seemed to vie with each other in expressions of re gard for their guess. They were every day re gale with some new diversion, at which Mote luna appeared in person, contrary to his former haughtiness and reserve; and this condescension inspired the people with the greater reverence and eleem for the strangers. He seemed particularly fund of Cortes, with whom he spent a great part of his time, and contracted an acquaintance with his,4 captains,
captains, to whom he often made presents with great discernment and distinction of merit. In this manner, the Christians for some time enjoyed an agreeable repose, until they were alarmed by a piece of intelligence brought by two Tlafcalan fol tiers, who had disguised themselves in the habits of Mexicans, and entered the city unperceived. This was no other than a letter from Vera Cruz, containing-the following particulars. That some of the Indians in alliance with the Spaniards, hav ing complained to Juan de Efcalante, that one of Motezuma's generals called Qualpopoca, had asses hed all the Mexican troops upon the frontiers of. Zemnpoalla, and levied contributions upon them with great extortion and cruelty, he, the said Juan de Efcalante, hid sent deputies to desire the Mexican general to suspend hostilities till further orders flihold come from court, as could note supposed that Motezuma would authorize such violence, at the very time when he entertained the Spaniards,' who were the allies of those poor people, with such friendship and hospitality. To this message Qual popoca made a very insolent reply, which provo ked Juan de Efcalante to take the field against him, at the head of two thousand Indians and forty Spaniards.,The Mexican general, being informed of his motions, advanced to receive him near a small vil lage, since known by the name of Algeria, and an engagement ensued, in which, after an obstinate dispute, the Mexicans turned their backs and fled with precipitation to the next town, whither they were pursued by Juan de Efcalante, though, by this time he was almost entirely abandoned by his Indian allies: for, in the beginning of the battle, they had melted away out of fear of the enemy, whose countenance they could not endure. Not Withstanding this desertion, which had not been,perceived
perceived by the Mexicans, Efcalante followed the pursuit with little more than his small number of Spaniards; and ordering the place of their retreat to be fired in different parts, attacked the troops of Qualpopoca with such resolution that they were en. timely dislodged and routed. This victory, how ever, cost the Spaniards very dear; for Juan de Efcalante and seven soldiers were mortally wounded and .es this number the Mexicans carried off Juan de Arguillo, a man of extraordinary stature and strength, who fell valiantly fighting in a place where he could not be succoured this account was the subjea of the letter which Cortes received from the council of Vera Cruz, who desired he would appoint a successor to their governor, and give directions touching the posture of their affairs.,Hernan was truly afflict at the lots of Juan de Efcalante, and communicated the letter to his cap pains, desiring each would separately weigh the circumstances of their present situation, and give their opinions freely at their next meeting. Mean while he himself passed the greatest part of the night in revolving schemes for his conduct on this occasion; and, in the morning, sending for some of the most sensible Indians in his army, asked, if they had late ly perceived any change in the discourse or behaviour of the Mexicans. They told him, that the nobles seemed to be pensive and mysterious, that they had heard some of the people mention the ex expediency of breaking down the causeway, and that it was reported, a Spaniard's head had been present ed to Montezuma, who viewed with astonishment the largeness and ferocity of the asper, and ordered it to be immediately concealed. From these circumstances and especially that of the head, which doubtless belonged to Arguillo, Cortes immediately concluded that the Mexicans were bent upon his,deitruion,
destruction, and that the plan was authorised by Motezuma; so that assembling forthwith his council computed of the captains and orme favourite soldiers, he imparted the hints he had received front the Indians, and demanded their advice. Some proposed to obtain a passport from Motezuma, and retire openly to the relief of Vera Cruz; others suggested that they should retire privately in the night but the greater part was of opinion, that the - should continue at Mexico, without pretending to know what had palled at Vera Cruz, until they, should find a proper opportunity for retreating with safety. Not one of shelf schemes however met with the ap probation of Cortes, who represented, that nothing could fink them lower in the opinion of the Mexicans than their demanding a passport to retire from that city, which they had entered in (pity of all op position; and that, if Motezuma really harboured any design to their prejudice, he would grant them safe concur with a view of lulling them into a blind security, that he might afterwards attack them una wares;'the proposal of retreating by stealth, he mentioned as a project equally dangerous and disgraceful as it would lower them in the esteem of their allies, who would desert them as dastardly fu gives, and perhaps recommend themselves to Motezuma by joining his forces in order to cut off their retreat. Neither could he see how it would be practicable to slay at Mexico, without taking same resolute shep for their fafcry : he therefore gave it as his opinion, that they should seize the person 'of Motezuma, and convey him to their own quarters where he might be detained as an hostage for the sincerity of his people. He said, such a bold aston Would shrike the Mexicans with astonishment and consternation, and aggrandize the character of the Spaniards to such a degree, that they would never dream of combining against them for the stun Vil, II, C ture,
ture, especially when they should know-that Cortes had discovered the transactions at Vera Cruz, the account of which .they would believe) muff have been communicated by rome supernatural intelligence This proposal he supported with such energy of eloquence, as 'seemed to inspire the hearers with uncommon spirit and alacrity; so that they un anxiously applauded the scheme, and left the ma. engagement of it entirely to his own discretion having pitched upon the hour 'when the Spani arts were accustomed to wait upon Motezuma, so the execution of the plan, he ordered his men ti arm themselves in the quarters, saddle their horse with great secrecy, and wait without noise for fur ther insinuations. Then-he occupied all the ave nues to the palace with mal! scattered detachments and having directed thirty choice men to follow him at a small distance, went thither, accompany need by Pedro de Alvarado, Gonfalo de Sandoval Juan Velasquez de Leon, Francisco de Lugo, an Alonzo Davila; nor was there any thing fufpici vous in their appearing with their arms, which the usually carried as a military ornament. Motezuma according to custom, came out of his partner in order to receive the visit; his servants, as usual retired to another part of the palace; and then Cor tes, with an carr of resentment, began his corn plaint against the Mexican general, who had at tacked his confederates in violation of the peace murdered a Spaniard in cool blood, and even er devoured to vindicate his perfidious behaviour, bl declaring he had aced in obedience to his majesty order.,Motezuma changed colour on hearing this charge which however he denied with marks of confusion and Cortes pretended to believe him innocent; " Ne " nevertheless (said he) neither the Spaniards nor you " own subjects will be undeceived, after such admit carnatic
declaration of your general, unless you take some extraordinary step to, efface the impression of such " a calumny : I am therefore come to beg you will, s. without ;any disturbance, repair with us t6 the ! Spanifh quarters, where you shall be treated with ; all the reverence and respect due to your majesty, "c until your character (hall be acquitted to the con " vision of all mankind." Motezutni, amazed and incensed at the boldness of the proposal, replied with impatience, that princes of his rank were not accustomed to go tamely to prison, nor would his subject permit him to forget his dignity so far as to sloop to so base a compliance. Cortes gave him to understand, that provided he would comply, with out obliging the Spaniards to forget the respect they had for his person,. he should not value the opposition of his subjects. Notwithstanding this remonstrance he refused to leave his palace; but, being sensible of the danger to which he was exposed, he offered to send immediately for Qualpopoca, and deliver him, with all his officers, into the hands of Cortes, and, in the mean time, to send two of his own sons to the Spanish quarters, as hostages for the performance of his promise. But there expedients would not satisfy Herman, whose captains, sus pelting that the delay might be dangerous, began to be clamorous, and, among others, Juan Velasquez de Leon called aloud, '" Since he will not " hear reason, let us seize h:m by force, or kill c him on the spot." Motezuma hearing this ex exclamation uttered in an angry tone, desired to know the purport of it, and Donna Marina, to whom he addressed himself, took this opportunity of exhort ing him earnestly, as his own vassal and subject, to comply without further hesitation, otherwise his life would be in danger. Her representation had filch an effect upon him, that he instantly role from his seat, saying to Cortes, " I trust myself yours 2 " hands;
hands; let us 'go to your quarters: for so the "gods have decreed." Then he ordered his ser wants to get ready his chair and equipage, telling his n wrestlers, that, for certain reasons of-slate, he Iliad resolved t) pass some says in the Spanish quarters and commanded the captain of his guard to put hinges at the head of a body of troops, with which he should take Qualpopoca and his officers prisoners, that they might sussex for having invaded Zempoalia. Having given there directions, which were explained by Donna Marina to Cortes and his officers, he quitted the palace with his usual attendants the-Spaniards marching chose by his chair on Retrace of respects : but, a report being immediately spread, that the strangers had carried off the em pe;or, the streets were in an instant filled with cro. ds of people, who rent the air with outcries, throwingthhemfelves on the ground in despair, and .feeding floods of tears for their unfortunate prince, In a word 2 general insurrection would have er. vainly ensued, had not Motezuma, with a serenity of countenance, commanded silence, and allured his people, that he was going, of his own accord: to pass a few days with his friends the strangers: 2nd wv.en he reached the quarters, he ordered lii! guards to dispense the populace, and his miniilci to publish that it should be death for any one tc occasion the leafitumult or disturbance. He be laved very courteously to the Spanifh soldiers, wh came forth and received him with great respect': and having pitched upon an apartment, at a distance from these pficeffed by the ,spaniards, it wa in. iar;n':- urlifn.ed som his wardrobe. Cortes doubt the a'ia:ds. and posed ;sentinels at all the avenues e1hricairg the ministers and courtiers that carne to .ait upon lctezuma to a certain number, of pretence of keeping his mcjeity.from being cr:.wd ed; and omitting no precaution which an action ostia
that consequence required. At the same time, he preserved all the formalities of decorum, treated him with the same respect he had formerly manifest ed towards his person; and indeed one would have imagined, from Motezuma's chearful aspect and seeming good humour, that he was perfectly well pleased with his situation. He distributed some jewels among the Spanish officers, and seemed to be per feJly easy in his mind; nor did he ever discover the fecit of his confinement to his ministers or ser wants, either because he was ashamed to reveal his own disgrace, or afraid of his life in case they should make the least disturbance. At first, therefore, the Mexicans believed his retreat was voluntary, be cause they could not suppose the Spaniards would attempt an ashton that even exceeded the bounds of their imagination; and when they did discover the truth from the extraordinary vigilance, doubled guards, and martial appearance of the strangers, they were so over-awed by the astonishing boldness of the atchievement, that they durst not venture to take any shep towards the enlargement of their pri nce.,Notwithfanding his imprisonment, he exercised all the functions of royalty; granted audiences; held councils; and, as usual, regulated the civil, as well as the military government of his kingdoms. lis table was fijpplicd from the palace, with ex extraordinary abundant e, that the Spanish soldiers might feast on the superfluity; and he constantly tf.tt delicacies to Cortes and his captains, each of whom he could call by his respective name. nay,. he even studied their humours and dispositions, as he occasionally converted with them, and often season ed his discourse with pleasantry, in such a manner, however, as not to descend beneath the dignity of his character. All the time which was not dedi catch to business, he passed among them; and was,C 3 won
went to say, he was not himself except in company of there strangers, who vied with each other in de corporations of respect; and these gave him great satisfaction i for he was extremely jealous of his ho your, insomuch that a Spaniard having done some thing, with a view (as he thought) to affront him, he i:lilied upon his being turned out of his pretence, and desired he might never be employed near his perish for the future. Sometimes he played with Cortes at tololoque, which i; a game performed by tipping down small pins of gold, with little balls of tie same metal; and as they played for jewels and trinkets, montezuma distributed his winnings among the spaniards, and Herman shared his good fortune among the emperor's inferior officers. During these amusements, he used to rally Pedro de Alvarado for being a partial marker, though he expressed uncommon regard for that captain ; and, in a word, seem ed insensible of the restraint in which he lived: but, notwithstanding his complaisance in other par titular., he baffled all the efforts made by Cortes and Bartholome de Olmedo to detach him from the Absurdities of his religion, to which he adhered with all the zeal of an enthusiastic about twenty days after his imprisonment, the captain of the guard returned with Qualpopoca and the other officers, who had surrendered themselves quietly at sight of the royal signet, which Motezu- rna had given to the captor as a mark of authority.; and, after they had bases brought before the emperor who spoke wo them with reserve, they were de livered into the hands of Cortes, to whom they confessed themselves guilty of having violated the peace of their own accord, as well as of having or tered Arguillo to be put to death in cold blood; till finding the Spanish general determined to inflict the punishment due to their crimes, they endeavour ed to save their lives by impeaching the emperor,,whose
whose orders they had obeyed. Cortes, however, at seeded to treat that impeachment as a malicious. aspersion; and, after a formal trial, they were con vied and sentenced to be burnt. But, in order to deter Motezumafrom taking any shep to prevent their execution, the general thought it was absolute ly necessary to take another bold stroke ; he there fore went into the presence of that prince, accompanied with Donna Marina and three or four cap pains, with a common soldier carrying fetters; and, after having saluted him with his usual respect, as fumed a peremptory look, while he told him, in an exalted voice, that Qualpopoca and his accomplices had confessed the crimes for which-they were con denned to death; but, as they affirmed they had done nothing but by his order, it was highly just and necessary that he should expiate for those strong presumptions by some personal mortification. So, saying, he, with an air of authority, commanded the soldier to shackle Motezuma, without suffering. any reply; and leaving him in that condition, gave orders to the guards to deprive him of all communication with his ministers such was the astonishment of the Indian emperor at seeing himself treated in this ignominious. manner, that he could neither find power to refill, nor speech to complain, while his servants, with out presuming to speak, threw themselves at his feet, with marks of inexpressible affliction, in or der to bear the weight of his fetters. When he re covered from his first amazement, he broke out in. to a transport of rage, which, however, he soon. repressed; and, though he believed his life was itt. danger, he collected his fortitude, and waited his, fate with dignity and rceignation.,Mean while Cortes, having taken all possible: precautions to prevent any disturbance, ordered the Mexican general and his officers to. be brought forth,C- 4 and.
and executed, in presence of an innumerable con course of people, who beheld this amazing spectacle with silent awe and admiration. Then returning to the emperor's apartment, he told him, with a chearful countenance and courteous address, that the traitors, who had been so bold as to blemish his majesty's character, had now received condign punishment: and so sayings he himself stooped down, and with his own hands took off the fetters, Montezuma received his liberty with a tumultuous joy, and embraced Cortes two or three times with great .section ; then they sat down together, and engaged in the molt amicable conversation; during which, the Spanifh general gave him to under stand, that whenever he pleased he might return to his palace, as the cause of his detention was now remored.,-This was a political offer, which he knew the Indian monarch would not embrace, because he has before-hand, by means of Donna Marina, in Infused into him a firm belief, that if he should quit the Spanish quarters before the departure of Corner, lie worm suffer greatly in his reputation,.as soon as ever his vassals should know that he had received his liberty from the hand of another. He ther fore declined the over, though he would not explain his motive; but, on the contrary, made a merit of his fiat,, by saying, that as fc-nn as he should return to his palace, his nobility and rmniilers would press him to take up arms. in order to obtain satisfaction for the injury he had undergone; so that he would remain where he was, out f regard to the Spaniards.,Cr r:s seemed to acquiesce in this pretence, praised his resolution, and made many acknowledge rents for the care he expressed of their safety ; and b: th e ,ere very well sati fed with the finesse which they practised on each other.,CHAP.
CHAP. XIX. The emperor permitted to visit the temple of the fun;,after which he patient returns to the Spanish quarters and gems l/rozgly attached :o Girths ; br wvh;m Gonzalo de Sandoval s aptoi cite: governor of [Vra Cruz ; twi /hps built upon the la,.e; :he working of ttemjtis'ange to th. Indians ; Joie i religions difp.t s; an ambitious conspiracy sit on /o t aga;ifl Cortes ; dfo vzercd by ilotezuma, and the principal conjuror of itJecurled and puijhed.,R 0M this day Motezuma seemed to be per f ctly well satisfied with his situation; he be came courteous and libera!, and his servants and attendants rejoiced in this change of his dispose iorl. At length, when he thought he ,nat given indubitable proofs of his sincerity, he desired that Cortes would allow him to visit his temples, and, at the file time gave his royal word that he wou d punctually return to his quarters: and observed, that such an indulgence would redound to the advantage of the Spaniards themselves, as ;he Mexicans be gan to surmise that he was detained as a pri" ner, and in that belief might rAise some dan serous com motion) Cortes, sensible of the truth of what he alleged, aspired him that he was at liberty tn. .o abroad whenever he should think proper ; yet he ac accepted of the promise he ':.aIe with regard t his returning, because he fhouiil be extremely rno defied in being deprived of his coining Though the general wo!id not hinder .im i r::: visiting his temples, hie i'fie;' upon his proitr:-, that no human ficrifi e i,:.*lI h1 elfr'i.r-'j fr :n' that: d .:y and if these imp' ie: rites were loi; c;ltiK;'V abohihd., they were at self: conducted with iuc.h ic crecy as screened them effectually from the offer .a-,C 5 tion
tion of the Spaniards. His first excursion was to the principal temple, which he entered with-his usual pomp and attendants,, and his appearance-was celebrated with the loud acclamations of his people, among whom he distributed largesses with uncommon liberality. Having paid his worship to the gods, he returned to the quarters, where he declared with all the marks of sincerity, that, exclusive of his promise, he would have come back solely to enjoy that satisfaction he had in residing among the strangers from this day he continued to go abroad occa. finally, according to his own inclination, some times to the palace of his wives, and Sometimes to pleasure houses, where he enjoyed his amusements; but never without asking leave of Cortes, who ge neatly accompanied him in his parties of diversion, and indeed seemed to engross his favour to such a degree, that the nobles, who had any thing to ask of the emperor, never failed to sollicit the interest of the general, in which they always found their account yet, in the midst of this success and teeming tranquillity, Herman did not neglect those precautions which he deemed necessary for his own feu ;sty, as weel as for the execution ofthevaftdefign he had conceived. He appointed Gonzalo de San .ovid to the government of Vera Cruz, which wa aran: by he death of Juan de Efcalante; but, a Le did not chute to part with such a valuable cap trin, he sent i- quality of his lieutenant, a private ic;c;er, called Alonf6 de Grade, a man of ability th ugh turbulent in his'diifofition, who had diflin gushed himself in the past diffurbances.,Thi Qmioht have been a very unlucky shep, ha t'. ;.ei;tcT which Diego Velasquez fitted out in th prosecution of his old claim, arrived a little soon loan the seat of Vera Cruz. But, the lieutenant bec have
Vi ~ s 04,-.-";- -. ~ ~ >.Z1 N-1- - ,- -i-j,P-'C~ ;,- i .-~ ~ ~ ~ L, -. ~ 2 - - -. x-~~~~~~~~ - *, - 9 - '-' --,I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ &~~~~~~~~pi'sd
laved with such insolence and tyranny, that, in a' few days after his arrival, complaints were sent against him from the inhabitants and adjacent towns.' so that Cortes was obliged to fetch him away prisoner and indulge them with the governor in per son.,The broken expressions which the Tlafcalans had' overheard, about cutting away the bridges, and ruin ing' the causeways, had made a deep impression up on the mind of the general, and inspired him with, the design of making himself master of the lake,. by means of two brigantines to be built ofthe wrecks of the ships which had been bored.,Fraught.'with this idea, he excited the curiosity of'Motezuma, by describing the nature of sailing by the wind, which was utterly unknown to the Mexicans, and obtained his permission to build two. vessels on the lake for his majesty's amusement, anti the instruction of his subjects. Accordingly the. nails, cordage, canvas, and other tackle belonging. to the Spaniih ships were brought from Vera Cruz,, and Some builders, who had lifted as soldiers, were set at work ; together with the carpenters of Mexico who followed the directions of'Cortes and his artists; so. that in a few days the brigantines were: finiflhedand Motezuma resolved to embark in per son with the Spaniard, that he might have the: nearer view of this strange navigation. Great pre operations were made for this exhibitions vast number of canoes, belonging to 'the em pero and others, were finely decorated and man ned with the most expert rowers; and themes cans could not believe but that they should triumph in the trial ; but no sooner did the breeze spring. p, than the brigantines unfurled their sails, and began to move with such celerity, as Coon left all; he canoes at a great distance behind, to the inexpressible amazement of the Indians, who could not,C 6 coin-comprehend
the European manner of fleering and working such floating houses, but fairly owned ti! was an art beyond their capacity, and firmly believed that by mean, of these wonderful machines, th Christians could command the elements of wine and water. As for Motezuma, his astonishment was mingled with rapture, and he beheld the vic tory cf tie Spaniards with all the delight of a warm partizan, although it was obtained over his owr fuhjes.,ie became every day more and more attached to Cortes, v.ho having gained this important point of the brigantines, took all opportunities of for v.;ardin : treaty of commerce and alliance which he hba projected between Mexico and Spain, and i::or.-mtc himself, without incurring the least suspicion c.f the extent, power, riches and produce of this Indian empire: ray, Motezuma himself took piers to rn;.'e him acquainted with the nature and situation of his country: he ordered his painters to draw an exact representation of all his territories, to ether with all the bays, harbours and creeks up ol; the coast, and every permitted some Spaniards to go and examine the most celebrated mines, and take a more accurate survey of the country. The ge neral's pretence for making those minute inquiries was, that he might be able to give his own sovereign a more adequate idea of the grandeur and rC-v.er of his new ally; and perhaps the Indian em peter gratified his desire from vanity and ostentation <.'me Spanish historians pretend, that even at this juncture, when such harmony ought to have pre waited between the Christians and Motezuma, the soldiers cf Sortie resolved to overthrow all the idols of \i-xicc, asia convert the principal temple into a church ; that the priests took up arms, and the whole city rose in defence of their gods; that, after a long
along contest, which was maintained without blood shed, the Mexicans agreed that a part of the temple should be converted into a Christian chapel, where an altar was erected, together with the cross of Christ, and an image of the Virgin Mary, arid mass was sung with great solemnity: that the priests of the idols took great pains to clean and adorn this chapel, until the Mexicans mutinying for want of rain, they came to Cortes in a tumultuous manner, complaining that their gods had refused to send them refreshing rain, because strange deities were intro duce into their temples; and that, in order to ap pease this disorder, the general promised that they should have a plentiful flower, which actually fell in a few hours, to the unspeakable admiration of Motezuma and his subjects. But, it is not at all probable that Cortes, considering his present precarious situation, would permit his soldiers to en gage in an enterprize which could not fail to exasperate the minds of the Indians beyond a possibility of accommodation: and as for the miracle, every sensible reader will regard it as an idle tale of ignorant fuperflition.,Notwithstanding the great progress the Spanish general had made in the favour of Motezuma, and esteem of the Mexicans, he was now exposed to a- danger which had well nigh compleated his ruin. This was a conspiracy formed against him by the emperor's own nephew Cacumazin, king of Te zeuco, and firs elector of the empire. He was a young man of great vivacity, art and ambition, who, under pretence setting Motezuma at liber ty, harboured designs upon the throne of Mexico, either by bringing about an immediate revolution, or by securing the popular favour at the next election when the throne hould become vacant. With there views, he took all private opportunities of depreciating the conduct, and displaying the pu-pusillanimity,
pusillanimity, of his uncle, who tamely submitted te the tyranny of a few insolent strangers; and, at the same time, endeavoured to vilify Cortes and his Spa. niards, as an handful of robbers, whose reputation was not built upon their courage and valour, but on the cowardice of those who were afraid to op. pose their arms. He enlarged upon their presume. tion, in countenancing rebels arid enemies, whom they had introduced into the bosom of their city, to theirtdeli)le reproach of the Mexican name; in weighed against the audacious behaviour of Cortes, who had acted as supreme magistrate in the midst of Mexico, and even put an Indian general to death by a moi ignominious execution; and lastly, he reminded the of the shameful slate of captivity in which they detained the emperor, to the eternal disgrace of all his nobles and people. By such insinuations he inflamed the minds of some of the first noblemen of the empire; and, at a private assembly at which were present the kings of Cuyocan, Iztapalapa, Mazalcingo, and many other powerful caciques, he explained their grievances in a pathetic harangue, and proposed that they should take arms and suddenly attack the Spaniards in their quarters The king of Matalcingo, who was also Mo tezuma's nephew, and plainly perceived the drift of Cacumazin, which interfered with his own pretensions opposed the execution of this scheme, until they should have first taken some steps to secure the emperor's person, which must be in the mots im minent danger from such an attack; and, finding his expedient rejected by the assembly as an impracticable proposal, he is thought to have made Mo tezuma acquainted with the'confpiracy, although he seemingly acted in concert with the council, which broke up after they had concerted the enterprise, ap pointed the daw, and recommended to each other the. most inviolable secrecy. This plot was no soon-,.er
er intimated to Motezuma,' than he went to com muriate the particulars to Cortes, ,who, by means of his spies, was already informed of the whole. However, he thanked the emperor for this proof of his integrity and concern, and desired his permission to march out with his Spaniards, and chastise the seditious Cacumazin. Motezuma argued against this proposal, as a shep which would' not only discredit his authority, but also, in all likelihood, pro duce some new breach between the Christians and his people: he therefore begged the general-would leave the punishment of the delinquent to his care, and in a little time'took such measures in private, that his rebellious nephew was seized at his own houses and brought prisoner to Mexico, where he was closely confined as a criminal under sentence of death. Yet he was not treated in this manner, until after he had publicly disobeyed the orders of his sovereign, and reviled Cortes in the mol info lent and contemptuous manner. At this very period there was a brother of Cacumazin at Mexico, a youth of great courage and expectation, who had a few days before narrowly escaped a snare which his brother had laid for his life, in consequence of tome domestic jealousies. Motezuma had taken this young prince into his protection, and even en rolled him in his own family: and Cortes taking the advantage of these circumstances, dissuaded the emperor from putting a prince of the blood to death by a public execution; but counselled him to deprive Cacumazin of his rank and dominions, and give them to his brother, who so well deserved that mark of his indulgence; by which means the traitor would be sufficiently punished, and the kingdom of Te zeuco, together with the dignity of first elector, de volve to the person who had the right of such celffon.,Motezuma
- montezuma was highly pleased with this advice; which he immediately communicated to the noble, of his council, who applauded it as equally just and merciful; and by a royal decree, Cacumazin was-dispossessed of all his honours, dignities, and domi. nions, which were conferred upon his brother, to the satisfaction of all the grandees, and the unspeakable pleasure of the vassals of the family, with whom the young prince was ^ great favourite. When the emperor bestowed the investiture, with the ceremonies peculiar to the country, he made a pathetic speech to the young king, recommending to him the exercise justice and benevolence, and in par titular gave him to understand, that his good for tune was entirely owing to the advice of the Spanish generalship manner of chastising without bloodshed, was applauded through the whole empire, and afcri. bed to the superior judgment and virtue of the Chris trans, which operated so strongly on the rest of the conspirators, that they dispersed their troops, and had recourse to the clemency of the king, whose pardon they obtained through the intercession of Cortes : so that his reputation wag greatly raised by the very means which had been used to effect his ruin.,CHAP,
CH A P. XX. Motezuma makes a vo' unwary over of becoming tributary to Spain, to which he gains the consist of tie - flares; and confirms it by profile presents; which Cortes judiciously disposes of: after which Motezuma itnfis upon his evacuating Mexico, and Cortes takes proper measures tot preserve his footing ; . butlers free troubles-front Velasquez; wh, sends several ./h ps to oppose him.,LTHOUGH Motezuma was pleated to see A 'this storm blown over so quietly, certain re elections rankled at his heart, and continually disturbed his repose. He could not help remembering what he had been, and considering his present fixation ; and these sentiments filled him with grief and mortification. At length, he summoned all his fortitude and recolleCtion, and resolved to free him self of that odious restraint under which he had languished so congratulated by this motive, he took a proper opportunity to tell Cortes, that now he in tended to make a voluntary acknowledgment of that vassalage which he owed to the king of-Spain as successor of Qliezalcoal, in a general assembly of his nobles, to be convoked for that purpose; and, 2s a marl of that vassalage, settle a contribution, in which he himself would take the lead, by present ing the most valuables jewels of his treasury toon Carlos; and he did not doubt that all his caciques would follow his example, in contributing accord ing to their abilities cortes, who did not perceive his whole aim, thanked him for his liberality, without feeling to be surprized at his proposal, and inwardly rejoiced 2t the propped of being able to give his sovereign such important earnest of the wealth he should oneida
day reap from this acquisition in point of superb city: for, he was now to be declared lord para. mount of the Mexican empire; and Herman, sat from having any intention to depart, thought he could easily keep the footing he had obtained in Mexico, until he should receive orders from Spain,,Motczuma entertained very different sentiments; he concluded, that Cortez could have .no pretext for slaying, after he should have obtained more than he could reasonably expel; and with that notion, dispatched couriers to convene all the ca cacique of his empire, according to the custom prae. tired in all cases of emergency. They accordingly assembled with equal splendour and expedition, and the council was held in the king's apartments, in presence of Cortes and'his captains, together with their interpreters. Here Montezuma uttered a- tu. died harangue, wherein, after having reminded them of the obligations they owed him as their' o. foreign and benefactor, and assured them he had consulted and obtained the approbation of the gods, touching the cause of their meeting, he repeated the sultry and prophecy of Quezalcoal, declared the king of Spain was the defendant and successor of that mighty prince, consequently the rightful lord proprietor of the Mexican empire, to whom he and all of them were bound in duty to yield obedience and' acknowledgment; as a mark of which; he had selected the most precious jewels of his treasure, for an offering to the king of Spain, and he did not doubt that they would follow his example in dedicating some part of their riches to the same use this discourse he did not pronounce without in corruption. He could not help sighing from time to time, and when he owned himself vassal to another prince, the tears trickled down his cheeks, and he couldn't proceed; until Cortes rifnl, de-scared
dared that it was not the intention of his sovereign to dispossess Motezuma, or make the least innovation in his government; but all he desired was, that they would settle his right to the succession, in favour of his descendants. An explanation which encouraged Motezuma, who resumed his tranquillity, and distinctly finished his harangue. The assembly were.aftonifhed and confounded at the proposal, which feared so inconsistent with the dignity and known character of their emperor: they considered it as the effect of compulsion, they groaned bitterly, and gave other marks of-anxiety and disturbance, and looked at each other in the most emphatic silence: until his prime minister, who knew his prince's disposition, took upon him to answer in the name of the rest; assuring him, that as all the nobles repeated him as their natural lord and sovereign they should readily obey whatever his ma jeflv should think proper to propose, and follow his example in every thing to the utmost of their power. The whole council signified their assent to this declaration; and Cortes, by the mouth of his interpreter, made an artful speech, in which he gave thanks to Motezuma and all present, for this demonstration. of their reaped, which he accepted in the name of his king, without seeming to think it Strange that they complied with their obligations but, rather as one who receives a just debt, and is pleated with his debtor's punctuality. Perhaps Motezuma's whole aim in this transaction was to forward 'the departure of the guess, without any intention to fulfil the terms of this submission for the future. Be this as it will, from that day, Charles V. was acknowledged and be lived by the people to be the lawful and hereditary lord of the Mexican empire; and their homage was authenticated by a public instrument, according to the custom of the country,! montezuma
Motezuma having transacted this affair to hi liking, resolved to lose no time in retrieving tha liberty and independence, for which he had so long sighed in secret. He forthwith delivered to Comte, the present he had provided, consisting of curious ties in gold, in the shapes of animals, birds, ana fishes, a great number of precious stones, parties. larry those called Cclaites, in colour like-emeralds, which they esteemed above all others, together with feme surprizing pictures made of variegated feathers; in a word, the whole was the ransom of a great prince, who thinks he cannot purchase his liberty at too high a price. The contributions the nobles was answerable to the liberality of their monarch, and such as might be expected from wealthy chiefs, who vied with each other in lo. salt and ostentation. Cortes appointed a receiver and treasurer, to take an exact account of what was delivered, and in a few days, exclusive of jew. els, precious stones, and pieces of curious work. manship, they had amassed as much gold as, when melted down, amounted to six hundred thousand pesos in bars of a very good alloy. Out of this treasure, one fifth part was set aside for the ling, 2nd one fifth of the remainder for the use of Her. nan Cortes, and in order lo defray the expences providing necessaries for the army. Another part was likewise allotted to reimburse Diego Velasquez 2nld Herman's friends in the island of Cuba, who had fu pp'ied him with money for the voyage; and the rest was div ded am-long the officers and soldiers, including those who were at Vera Cruz. Therein the !are degree of ran,-, had equal shares; but, among the private men those were best, rewarded, who ha moll distinguished themselves in the fc-r- vice. This difference produced murmurs and loud complaints, which, however, were soon fienced,by
by the liberality of Cortes, who satisfied the male contents from his-own share of the contribution.,Motezuma having made this substantial acknowledgment of subjection, sent for Cortes, and with a peremptory air of unusual severity., told him, that now he was dispatched, he should think of de parting, seeing his further flay would be justly at tribute to sinister motives; nor could. he any longer support him, when reason was not on his side. The nature of this intimation, and the manner in which he delivered it, was so unexpected, that it was not till after some pause that Cortes could re collies himself so as to make a proper reply. He now, for the fist time, perceived the drift of that assembly, which had been convoked; and suspecting that Motezuma might have rome forces privately assembled, in order to back this proposal which he had made in such a resolute and even menacing tone, he privately feint one of his captains to order his soldiers to take to their arms; and hin the mean time, excused himself for teeming embarrassed at seeing his majesty moved more than ordinary, as during him, he was so far from intending to protract his departure, that he had come on purpose to beg his permission to build some vessels to transport the Spaniards to their own country, as he well knew they had lost the ships that brought them to the Indian coast the emperor is said to have provided fifty thou sand men to support his determination; bu:, certain it is, he vas desirous of avoiding a rupture wit' Cortes, and even very apprehensive of the answer he might receive: for, he no sooner heard this artful reply, which was equally sage and mo derive, than he embraced him with particular marks of affection; and, being now rid of his fears, he told him with the utmost complacency, that it was not his intention to hasten his departure, be-sore
fore he was provided for the voyage; and that should be furnished with every thing he wanted without delay.,He' accordingly issued orders for assembling al the carpenters of the country to cut wood, ant work under the direction of Cortes and his people: and Herman, on his part, affected to comply with great alacrity. He dispatched his builders to Vera Cruz, in order to collect the iron-work, rigging and sails of the vessels which had been sunk; but, at the same time, gave private directions to Martin Lopez, his master builder, to proceed slowly, and prolong the work as much as he could, without in. cursing the suspicion of the Mexicans: for, his real design was to maintain his footing at Mexico, until his commissaries should return from Spain, as he expected they would bring him a supply of troops, together with directions for his future con duEc.,By these prudent measures, he quieted the minds of Motezuma and his fubjeAs, for the present i but, in a few days, he had occasion to exert all his dis creation and magnanimity. Intelligence was brought to the Indian emperor, that eighteen ships were seen hovering upon the coats of Pilleca, and by the paintings, which were made for the better informa tion of his majesty, and certain characters inter mingled with the paintings, those ships were fu fpccted to be manned with Spaniards: a circum fiance that could not fail to alarm the whole em pire, and revive that suspicion which Cortes had already incurred, and so lately dispelled. Motezuma immediately communicated his intelligence to the Spanifh general, telling him that it would be unnecessary to proceed with his building, seeing he might embark in those ships for disown country. Herman, having surveyed the paintings, was per. fecly satisfied with their being Spanish vessels, and,supposing
supposing they were come from Spain with a supply of troops and ammunition, answered with great composure, that he would embark immediately, provided those ships were bound back to any of the king of Spain's dominions': but, at the fame-time, observed that he would not desist from building, until he should be informed of the particulars, by a message from Zempoalla, whom he expected every moment such a reasonable reply would not be disagreeable to Motezuma, who seems to have had a real esteem and veneration for Cortes, and to have dreaded nothing so much as a quarrel with the Spaniards: but, Herman was not a little concerned, when in a few days he received a letter from Gonzalo de Sandoval, importing, that these ships belonged to Diego Velasquez, and contained eight hundred men, who were come to oppose him and his designs in Mexico. This mortifying account was put into his hands, while he was engaged in conversation with Motezuma, and it required all his prudence and resolution to conceal his emotions from the ob servation of that monarch. However, he succeeded in his endeavours, the emperor suspected nothing of the truth; Herman even softened the account among his own people, and retired to his own apartment, in order to deliberate upon this unexpected event. But, here a retrospect is necessary, to explain the reception which the commissaries of Cortes found at the court of Spain, as well as the causes that prompted and enabled Velasquez to equip such an armament against him alonzo Hernandez Portocarrero, and Francisco de Montejo, who sailed from Vera Cruz with let terms for the king, together with the first tribute of New Spain, touched at the island of Cuba, though contrary to the orders they had received, that Fran cisco de Montejo might have the pleasure of feeing,his
his own home, which was near the Savannah,: such a distance from the government of Velasquez that he thought they ran no risque from his vii lance or refinement. This, however, was a veri dangerous Step, which had well nigh prevent, their voyage to Spain; for, Diego de Velasquez apprehending that Cortes would send some of hi ships to the island of St. Domingo, in order to fol. licit the succour and protection of the-religious go errors, had rationed spies all along the coast, tt give him intelligence: and being, by these means made acquaint with what happened at the hai:ta. tien c Mc ortejo,.he immediately dispatched twc light vttflsw, well manned and armed, with orders to take the flip, and every person on board i and these orders were executed with such diligence, that the pilot Alaminos had occasion for all his skill and good fortune to escape the danger by which he was threatened : for, Montejo no sooner remarked in consequence of the fires notice he re civet of the governor's design, than this bold mariner ventured to sail through the gulph of Si'. rida, hitherto unattempted, which was the only expedient by which they could possibly elude the pursuit of Vel suez. After a prosperous voyage, they arrived at Sevil in October, though at a veri unlucky conjuncture; for, the chaplain Benito Mar tin, whom Velasquez had sent to sollicit the come mission of king's lieutenant, and obtained his suit, and .was now at Sevil, waiting for a vessel, in which h e night return to Cuba, whither he h; already f-nt the ccrmniflion which he hjd procured This man represented Cortes in such a disadvantageous light, as a pirate who had clandestinely carried off the vessels belonging to Velasquez, and t?.e interest of this a12i was so firing at Sevii that the directors of the trade, in consequence o: his complaint and impeachment, ordered the vefiel,an.
and cargo to be seized, and, as a considerable fa your, permitted the envoys of Cortes to resort to the king for Teres. Accordingly, the two cap pains with Alaminos set out for Barcelona, where they expected to find the court; misunderstanding his majesty was at Corunna, where he had pre pared his navy to pass over into Flanders, in order to accept of the imperial crown, they took the rol.dof Medeilen, Where they visited Martin Cor tes, who received them with equal pleasure and furprize,'when he understood the glory and success of his son, whose death he h d long deplored; and t' ey persuaded this venerable old gentleman: to ac company them to the emperor, in hope that his character and grey hairs would give a sanction to their sollicitations. It was their good fortune to overtake the court at Tordefillas, just as the pre feint from Cortes and the Indians of the new con quell arrived from Sevil ; for, these the directors durni not detain, because they were upon the em pero's own account. They met with a very ora pious reception from Charles, who expressed his fa satisfaction and astonishment at their account of t;:is new discovered world, and, in several conferences with the deputies, minutely inquired into every particular of the conquest, while the Indians and presents before his eyes gave as it were a fashion and credit to the wonderful circumstances which they related. But, as his majesty was then on the brink of his departure for Germany, he referred the letters and sollicitations of Cortes, to cardinal Adrian and the council, to which he had committed the administration of affairs during his own Ab fence; desiring they would take some method for qualifying matters, so as to do justice to the pretensions of Velasquez, and at the same time encourage the conqueror of Mexico, who had .hitherto, .pro needed with such uncommon spirit and ::uc.Â£fs. \Vc. IL D The
The president of this council, was Juan Ro. driquez de Fonseca, bishop of Burgos, who greatly favoured Velasquez, and represented Cortes as a Rebel and seditious person, upon whom they could have no dependance; however, they did-not think it was convenient to give him immediate cause of discontent, nor would they send him any part of the supplies he so earnestly demanded ; so that all' his deputies obtained was a small share of the car. go they had brought for their subsistence, and they were obliged, for two whole years, to dance at tendance at court, like unrewarded projetors.,Mean while, Diego Velasquez received-his com mission of king's lieutenant, not only of Cuba, but likewise of all the lands which should be dis. covered and conquered through his means. This title, together with assurances of protection from the bishop of Burgos, president of the Indies, at once gratified his ambition and resentment; unresolved to appropriate to himself the glory of con during Mexico, and to punish Certes as a rebel and deserter. With these views, he exerted all his influence, and expended-the greatest part of his fortune in equipping an armament, consisting of eight hundred Spanish infantry, eighty horse, twelve pieces of cannon, and great sore of pro vision, arms and ammunition. The command of the expedition he bestowed upon Pamphilo de Narvaez, native of Valladolid, a man of distinction and capacity, but of a violent temper, vain, haughty, and bigoted to his own opinions: and this-gentleman, with the title of Diego's lieutenant, had private instructions to do his utmost endeavours to apprehend Cortes, and send him over to Cuba in irons, together with his chief officers, provided they hould refuse to abandon his interest ; and to take possession, in the name of Velasquez, of all,that
Plans of LA VERA C RrZ. cot(hilrh ,sh anPortrt,Sap Junto de Â·i'e oPaAr.,anJule Lt(O ~ ~ ~ ~ W,toltt Aile beale ai:ztwz ko,Ã³c mo
that had been conquered?, because it was within his. district, as the king's lieutenants H A P. XXI. T.'e monk of-St. Geronimo vainly endeavours to make,/ldeafquez abandon his project, and have remorse to pl'cy, when elocution fails; Felafq ez's agents have Very bad success at Vira Cruz, being opposed by the governor; Cortes finds hi;nedf in the mos perplexing ci' cunJflances, but disables his concern, and aas-j with great precaution, while his opponents behave in a very indifferent manner. T H E monks of St. Geronimo, who preside dover the royal audience at St. Domingo, and whose jurisdiction extended over the other islands, being informed of these preparations, and foresee ing the bad consequences which might attend such a competition, sent the licentiate Lucas Vasquez de Ayllon, to dissuade Diego from his enterprize ; and, in case other arguments should prove ineffectual to command him, upon great penalties, to disarm his people, unrig his fleet, and desist from an un undertaking which might disturb or impede the mea sures of Herman Cortes. This minister arrived in the island of Cuba, where he found the fleet, confining of seventeen lips, well manned and just ready to sail; and used all his influence and elocution, to divert velasquez from his purpose. He expatiated upon the danger to which his people might be exposed, in cale Cortes should find upon the defensive, and avail himself of the allies whom he had made among the natives: he represented the mischief that might ensue to the interest of Spain, should the ]indians perceive a civil war among their conque rs: and exhorted to leave his complaints to the,D 2 deter-determination
of the royal chamber-which would not fail to do him jtiitice in redressing the wrongs he had sustained but, finding Velasquez deaf to all remonstrances and elevated to a degree of insolence and pride by the title which he had acquired, he proceeded to the judicial part of his commission, and caused his-orders and protest to be notified by a scrivener, whom he had brought along with him for that pur pose. Although he was treated with contempt and indecency in the performance of his duty, he dissembled his resentment, and, pretending to be re conceited to a design he could not prevent, expressed a desire of accompanying the expedition, in order to gratify his own private cuiiofty.,This request was immediately granted by Diego, who was glad of this opportunity of keeping the fathers of it. Domingo the longer in ignorance of his motions ; and the licentiate embarked, in hoSe of being able, when at a distance from Velasquez, to a& as mediator between Narvaez and Herman Cortes, and prevent the bad consequences of Die go's resentment. With the same view, Andres de lDuero, that secretary of VelaSquez who had be. shielded Cortes so much in the beginning of his fortune, likewise engaged in the expedition; and the Fleet, ailing with a favourable wind, soon an choked in the port of Ulna. Here Pamphilo de Narvac-z sent ashore some soldiers for intelligence, .5nd in a little time they returned with two or three Spaniards, whom they had found straggling about the place. From these ite received information of e.erv thing which had happened at Vera Cruz and mexico, ths', either with design to flatter Narvaez, or in order to gratify their own malice, they affeelkd to Iletn: the success, and discredit the operations of Corzes.,In
In consequence of this intelligence, Pamphilo resolved-to treat with Gonzalo de Sandoval about the furrerdry of the fortress which was under his command, and forthwith sent a clergyman, called Juan Russ de Guevara, attended by three soldiers and a public notary, to signify his demand, and persuade Sandoval to join the army with his gar ripon. Gonzalo, who, by his sentinels, had been informed of their coming, and was prepared for their reception, recollected all his temper, which wis scarce sufficient to refrain him within the bounds of moderation, when Guevara explained his message, and gave him to understand, that Nerves was come to send Cortes in chains to Cuba. He answered, with great warmth, he could not persuade himself, that Pamphilo de Narvaez, whom he believed to be a good subject, would at tempt to interrupt Cortes in a conquest that would redound so much to the advantage of Spain, but rather join him with all his forces, in bringing such a noble scheme to perfection: however, if he was actually determined to offer violence to Herman, he might be assured, that the garrison of Vera Cruz wo'jld oppose him with all their power the priest, who was a passionate man, being equally astonished and incensed at this unexpected re;,)ilie, broke out into injurious language and threats against Herman Cortes and all his adherents, w'iom he upbraided as felons and traitors; and commanded the notary to do his office; in publishing that all the Spaniards in Vera Cruz should pay obedience to Nar'vacz, on pain of deaths and oval having attempted in vain to persuade this indiscreet ecclesiastic, that such violence was equaiy unjuif and .unseemly in a person of his pro flagon, at len th assumed a peremptory air, and told the notary, he would cause him to be hanged immediately, should he presume to publish any or-,D 3 ders
ders that did not come from the king. Nay, he caused the priest and his attendants to be apple. ended and sent to Cortes; whom he previously in formed of the steps he had taken ; then he sum money his Indian allies to his assistance, in case he should be attacked, put his fortress in order, and made all the necessary dispositions for sustaining a liege, like an able and vigilant commander.,It cannot be purposed that Herman Cortes could receive the account of these transactions without concern. He was indeed agitated with the moll violent emotions of anxiety, where he reflected upon the dangerous situation in vr.ich he flood be tween the Mexicans and Narvaez, who were equally his enemies; and, although he imparted his sentiments and apprehensions to his own confidants, whole advice he consulted in all emergencies, he w:-re an air of tranquillity, in presence of Mote zama, telling him, that those newly arrived were indeed vassals to the king his mailer, and had brought a second embassy to support the propos. thorns he had already made; that they had brought army along with them, according to the custom of their country; but, that he would dispose them to return, and even go along with them, seeing his majefty'sgenerofity had left nothing for him or the nes comers to de/ire.,Nor did Cortes confine himself to deliberations only, he re!b!ved, if possible, to esteem a reconcile. anion with Narv.ez; bur, in case he should prose refractory, he made prevision for a rupture, ac carding to his wonted diligence and foresight. He font a me age to his friends the Tlalcalans, desiring they would assemble a body of six thousand men for an enterprize, in which he might possibly want their aillt.Lce ; and he gave private instruction, to three or four spanifh soldiers, who were permitted to hint t!;e mines of Chin,:ntla, to persuade the,caciquej
caciques of that country to levy two thousand fol diets for his service; as they were a warlike people, enemies to the Mexicans, and had already sent private offers of friendship and obedience to the Spa niards. At the same time, he purchased of thermo three hundred lances made of a very tough wood,, and much longer than those used by his own people,, these were armed with points of tempered copper,. instead of iron, and distributed among his soldiers,. as a safeguard from the horse of Narvaez, which. gave him no. small uneasiness. Mean while, Pedro, de Solis arrived from Vera Cruz, with the prisoners sent by Gonzalo de Sandoval, who had been car cried in chairs on. the shoulders of Indians; and Cor tes, having been apprized. their coning, went out to receive them with more than ordinary at tendance. He immediately ordered their fetters to; be taken off, and embraced them with great hospitality paying particular civilities to the licentiate Guevara, to whom he said, he would chastise Gonzalo de Sandoval for the little regard he had shewn to his person and dignity. Nay, he con duped him to his own apartment, complimented him with a place at his table, and intimated more than once the greatest satisfaction at the arrival of Narvaez, with whom he had formerly lived in the mols intimate friendship. He made him a witness of the favours he received from Motezuma, and: the profound respect with which he was treated by' the Mexican princes: he presented him with some jewels of value, which greatly played the violence of hi, temper; his companions tasted largely of hi bound ; and, without dropping the least hint of his iemig desirous that they would employ their good ofsccs with Narvaez towards an accommodation, :t in four days dispatched them, fully persuaded by his reasons and liberality, and warmly engaged in his interea ,D. 4 Having
Having dismissed them in this courteous manner, and allowed sufficient time for his wife and politic behaviour to produce the desired effet, he sent friar Bartholome de Olmedo with letters for Nar. vaez the licentiate Lucas Vasquez de Ayllon, and the secretary Andres de Duero; and this envoy was provided with jesters, which he had orders to distribute according to his own sagacity and penes tra:ion.,In his letter to Narvaez, after having bid him welcome to the American coast, he gave him an account of the conquers described the warlike ge r.ius of the Indians, together with the power and grandeur of Motezuma; enlarged upon the bad consequences which would infallibly attend any mis. understanding among the Spaniards; reminded him of his duty to the king, and the friendship which had form erle fubfitfrd between them; defied to know. his orders, which, if they were from his n ajely, he would immediately obey, even though they {sou'd command him to resign his army, and defiti from the enterprize in which he had so far succeeded. But, if he (Narvaez) acted only by virtue of a cor srnmhlion from Velasquez, he would do weal to consider what mischief might accrue to the interest of his king and country, from prie cu:i;:r the u:;jiU; rc-cntrrent cf that governor, wv.honi e .was resolved not only to indemnify for the expence of equipping the fleet and armament with which he had arrived, but also to gratify with a share of the glory and advantage of his success: and, !L'J.-, he gave Narvaez to underhand, that le cd rot ure arguments because he wanted firenrsth; ter, he knew as well how to' maintain hi; con ri;: s; as to propose an equitable accom- mcriz';on.,Pamir.ilo de Narvaez had taken up his quarters in Zn,03oa.'a, where he was very hospitably re-received
civet by the fat cacique, who at first believed he came in order to support and assist his friend Her nan Cortes: but, he was soon undeceived, to his great mortification; for, although Naryaez had no interpreters, his actions spoke too plain, to the con ,vision of the Indians: he treated the Zcmpoallans in the most imperious and oppressive manner, seized upon the furniture and jewels which Cortes had left in his own house, while his soldiers put in practice every aFt of avarice and rapine when the licentiate Guevara arrived from Me rico, and expatiated upon the magnificence of that city, the kind reception he had met with from Cortes, the high degree of favour in which he flood with Motezuma, and his eager desire of living in friendship with Narvaez, that imperious officer interrupted his discourse, by telling him, he might return to Cortes, by whose artifice he had been ca joined, and thrust him from his presence with hock in. marks of rudeness and difrefpecr.,Though the priest was repulsed from this quarter, he and his companions did not fail to make firing impressions upon the blinds of the soldiers; among whom they extolled the character of Cortes, in such a manner as not only disposed them to an' ac commodation with that general, but also inspired rheum with doubts and prepossessions to the prejudice of their own commander. Guevaro was loon followed by father Bartholomew de Olmedo, who having delivered his credentials to Narvaez, could scarce prevail upon him to peruse the contents, which however he superficially glanced over, out of compliment to the person and function of the bearer. In vain did the friar make a very eloquent and pathetic remonstrance, insulting the necessity of their acting in concert fOr the advantage of their country, the interest of which would be betrayed by their animosity i Nar-,D5 vnPI7
vaez replied with unseemly heat and precipitation, that the principal aim of that armament which h( coin-anded was to chastise Cortes as a rebellious subject; that he would immediately set a price upon his head, and proclaim all his adherents traitors and that he had sufficient force to wrest the con. quell from his hands, without having any occasion to consult those who were the accomplices ant abettors of his rebellion. The friar, still preserving his temper, exhorted him to consider well the sel he was about to take; he gave him, to understand that, before he could arrive at Mexico, he would bi obliged to fight his way through whole provinces o warlike Indians, who were the friends and confer debates of Cortes; that Herman's Spaniards wen determined to die by his side, and that his caul would be supported by Motezuma, a prince si powerful that for every single soldier in the arm, of Narvaez, he was able to raise a numerous armv.,Father Bartholomew having taken his leave, with a promise es returning for a final answer, proceeded to execute tl;e other part of his commission. H, visited the licentiate Lucas Vasquez, and the fe secretary Andre de Duero, who approved of wha he had prospered to Narvaez, and promised to excel ais their Power and influence in effecting an ac comn-odaticn. Then the father mingled with th, captains ard soldiers of his acquaintance, explained the nature of his embassy, represented the necesse: of efialifni, n peace between the-two commanders distributed the jewels and other curiosities will great judme-:t; and, in short, would have foot formed a firing party in favour of Cortes, had no his negotiation been prevented by Pamphlet d Narvaez, who, being informed of his proceedings ordered him to be brought into his pretence, calld,bin
him a mutinous and seditious traitor, reviled him in, the moi injurious manner, and resolved to secure: his person without delay. However, by the mediation of Andres de Duero, he was diverted from his purpose, and ordered the friar to depart immediately from Zempoalla.,The licentiate Lucas Vasquez being informed of: what passed, came very seasonably, and proposed that before de Olmedo shou'd be dismissed, the officers might be assembled, in order to deliberate upon a proper answer to Cortes, who seemed so, well disposed to peace. Narvaez rejected the pro psal with indignation and impatience; and in or der to prevent any further altercation, that instant ordered war to be declared against Cortes, as a rebel: and traitor to the king, assigned a considerable reward to any person who should take him dead alive and commanded the army to prepare for ant immediate marchese licentiate, incensed at this violence and irregularity commanded the crier to desist, and by his, own authority forbade Narvaez to stir a foot from. Zempoalla. on pain of death, or employ the forces. without the unanimous consent of the whole army. Parpilhilo, exasperated at this prescription, caused the licentiate to be apprehended in the most ignominious manner, and Tent on board a vessel to be transported to Cuba, without delay. Bartholome. de Olmedo returned to Mexico, without any favour. alle answer but, the principal officers in the ar my of Narvaez were scandalized at his rage and in science; the inferior soldiers became disaffected,. and loudly murmured again his conduct, and irn proportion to their-hatred and contempt of their owrm general, the character and success of Contes rose in, their estimation. Nay, over and above these causes of dissatisfaction, they had other subject of dif-,D 6 gt
gui., in the avarice vwih which he hoarded up some pr-cents which v.e e e went to him by Montezuma, who expressed his regard for the king of Spain, by his li reality to his officer's H A P. XXII. J-IlazIe's. pcq le prejudiced inlfavour of Cortes; zh'i,is a eitte Jiar:cd at a speech of Jictez, ma, z1ao, h::i.'er', swill gives him' longer proofs of h:s iac- grit.; ?h m'7arh;es against klvafquz's forces ; nary r::lyc efca^ Es an aL? nmbade; and prepares to attack ths e.'ie:y, z!:c era mu:z:h disordered by a very vis. Ir.t siren. TT E RM N A N Cortes found his fears realized, *. byv the account which he received from friar Lr;:noonome, touching the violence and impeach. bill v of Narvaez ; but, on the other hand, he was ogr.ae:l comforted, when he understood the disposition of the new come soldiers, and resolved to take i mn. mediate advantage of this favourable circumstance, Fas: inr communicate' his sentiments to his officers, a :. maturely cc:ificered the inconveniencies which might happen on either side, he, with the approbation of his friends, determined to take the field, with This hies of Tlafcala and Chinantla, and then march ir towards Zempoalla, to halt in some confederate town, where they might be near at hand to treat of peace, and post by the disaffection of the soldiers who came with Narvaez. The Spaniards of .Mexico no sooner underfoot this resolution of their general, tin they expressed their utmost zeal and impatience to be in action; for, notwithstanding the inequality of numbers, they had such confidence ir his valour, ability and discretion, that they thought it almost impossible to miscarry un der his command.,Hernan,
Herman, far from damping this their alacrity by unnecessary delay, repaired to the apartment of Mo tezuma, in order to signify his intended march: but, he was not a little surprised when that prince 'anti cheated his discourse, by telling him, he had from different parts received information, that the Spa nisi general residing at Zempoalla came with finis ter designs against him and his followers; and that, tho' he did not wonder that the two chiefs hould be enemies to each other frori private animosity, he could not help believing, as they were vassals-of one prince, and headed armies of contrary nations, that one of them mute of necessity be a rebel to his fierreign.,Cortes, though not a little startled at this declaration immediately availed himself of that admirable presence of mind which never forsook him in emergencies and answered, without hesitation, that the accounts which his majesty had received were un undoubtedly true, and he was come to lay the same intelligence before the emperor, as it was now au authenticated by the return of de Olmedo: that, never theseus, Na.vaez was not to be considered as a rebel to his king, but rather as a person who proceeded upon wrong principles through mistake; for, he was come as lieutenant or substitute from a misinformed governor, who, residing in a remote province, was not acquainted with the last resolutions of the court of Spain, and really imagined that the embassy to the emperor of Mexico was an affair belonging to his office: but, that all this misunderstanding would vanish as Toon as he (Cortes) could lay before that lieutenant his dispatches, by virtue of which he had full power and jurisdiction over all the Spaniards ho should arrive upon the Indian coasts. He had therefore resolved to direct his march immediately to Zempoalla with part of his forces, to dispose the new-comers to return on board their ships,,9 and
and would soon make them sensible, that they art now to respect the subjects of the Mexican empire as a people under the protection of the king of Spain.,The emperor-was very well pleased with the pro. spect of being delivered from such disagreeable visitants to whose exactions and oppression he was no stranger: but, he looked upon the design of Cortes as a rash undertaking, in which he could not possibly succeed against such powerful odds; and therefore offered to furnish him with an army, which should be entirely at his devotion, and wholly under his command. This offer he repeated with such ear neq marks of affectionate concern, that Cortes was fully convinced of his sincerity, though he declined the proposal with due acknowledgment, because in deed he had no great confidence in the attachment or the Mexican fuldiers.,He resolved to leave fourscore Spaniards in Mexico under the command of Pedro de Alvarado, an excellent officer, a gentleman of good sense, and an accomplished courtier, who, by his engaging be saviour and insinuating carriage, had already ac quire a great (hare of Motezuma's friendship and favour. He had directions from the general toma- nec the Indian emperor in such a manner, as that he sould have no opportunity of holding long con fercnc:s with his subject's, and at the same time be infeft !e of the restriction. The soldiers were or tered to obey their captain, and serve Motezuma with the greater respect, and exhorted to use their utmost dJ'iaence and circumspection in maintain ing an anmcab.e correspondence with his family and court: as for the treasure, it was wholly left to the charge ant known fidelity of Al;arado.,Cortes, having taken these precautions, dispatch ed a courier to Gonzalo de Sandoval, with orders to leave the fortress of Vera Cruz to the care of the,con-
confederate Indians, and march out with his Spaniards to. meet the general at a certain place of ren devout. He. then took order for the necessary sup plies of provision upon the rout, procured a body of Indians to carry the baggage, and commanded his people to:be ready to begin the march in the morning. All the preparations being made for his departure, he went to take his leave of Motezuma, to whose protection he recommended Pedro de Al varado.and the Spaniards he had left; and that prince exhorted him to defer coming to an open rupture with Narvaez, till the arrival of the Mexican succours which he would not fail to send him in any number he should desire: he gave him his royal word, that he would not forsake Alvarado, nor change his habitation during his absence, and ac companied him a good way out of town with his whole retinue of courtiers the Spaniards marched with equal chearfulness and circumspection, like veterans inured to the hard ships and stratagems of war, following the road to Cholula, where they were received with great ho fatality. From thence they proceeded towards Tlafcala; and, at the distance of half a league from that city, they found a splendid appearance of the nobility and whole senate; and their entrance was celebrated with demonstrations of joy and respect, suitable to the laurels they had won from the old inveterate enemies of the republic: nevertheless, they excused themselves from supplying Cortes with the auxiliaries he demanded, upon some pretext, about which the historians are not agreed. He ac accordingly admitted their excuse : for, certain it is, he left their city without displeasure or complaint, and, in the sequel, had recourse to their assistance and attachment, which never failed him on the mos critical occasions. After a short slay in Tlafcala, he marched on to Matalequita, a town of Indian,friends,
friends, about twelve leagues from Zempoall2, where he was joined by Gonzalo de Sandoval, and an addition of seven soldiers from the army of Narvaez from there Cortes received information of every thing that had been transacted in the enemy's quarters before they deserted; and he had likewise intelligence of a fresher date, by means of two fol tiers who had gone from Vera Cruz to Zempoalla in the disguise of Indians, carrying baskets of fruit, which they trucked with the Spaniards for glass-beads and other toys. On this occasion they affected the simplicity of the natives with such dexterity, that they were allowed to range through every part of the quarters, and make their observations without suspicion: nay, they even ventured to repeat their visits and, as a proof of the careless watch that was kept by Narvaez, conveyed away from the ve-ry parade a horse belonging to captain Salvatierra, one of the bitterest enemies of Cortes.,In order to protract the time, until the Indians from Chinantla should arrive, Herman sent father Bartholome a second time with proposals for an ac commodation; and, he making rut small progress, the general dispatched Juan; Velasquez de Leon, to use his influence with Narvaez, hoping that his re nation to Diego de Velasquez would render his me diction more acceptable. Pamphilo had written to this officer, exhorting him to espouse the cause of his kinsman, and promising him a very advantage vous post in his army; and Juan had delivered the letter to Cortes, with repeated protestations of dy ing by his side rather than desert his colours. This noble manner of proceeding won the confidence of his general, and was an additional motive for send ing him upon this negotiation when he approached Zempoalla, Narvaez came forth with a grand retinue to receive him, on the supposition that he was come to fight under the,banners
banners of Diego Velasquez; and was not a little mortified to find himself mistaken: however, he used all the arguments his reflection could suggest, in order to detach him from Cortes, and command ed the whole army to be reviewed before him, that he might be an eye-witness of his fuperiorflrength. He, next day, invited him to dinner, together with those officers in whom he chiefly cor-sided, that they might alifl in persuading him to join their fortune; and, in the beginning of the conversation, he was treated with great civility and compliment: but, in the midst of their festivity, some sarcastic ani aversions were uttered against Cries; and, al though his friend at first dissembled his resentment, that he might not prejudice the business in which he was employed, their expressions at last grew so in decent, that he could no longer refrain his indignation but laid aloud, with some warmth, that if any person in that company, who did not eifeem Rernan Cortes, and all his followers, as good and loyal fubjeas to the king 6f Spain, would signify his sentiments before fewer witnesses, he would un deceive him in what manner he should chuse for his conviction. This declaration, which disconcerted. Narvaez, was answered by a younger officer of the name and family of Velasquez, who said, no man was worthy of bearing that name, who attempted to vindicate a traitor. Juan, incensed at this re proach, gave him the lie, and drew his sword irs order to chastise this young man's insolence ; and the company, who interposed, found it a very difficult task to prevent mischief. At length, however, hi as prevailed upon to (heath his sword; and re ture-ed immediately to Cortes, breathing defiance and revenge his abrupt departure, and the cause of it, pro duce such dissatisfaction and murmurs among the officers and soldiers, that Narvaez, in order to quiet,their
their clamour, was fain to appoint a person who should go to Cortes to apologize for whit had hap opened to Juan de Velasquez, and learn the substance of his corner sion, which had not been fully explain ed. For this service he pitched upon the secretary Andres de Du:rn, who met Cortes on his march to an advantageous p.-ft nearer the enemy, which he meant to occupy until the arrival of the Chicane ticks, and be at hard to at as occasion should re quire; for by this time all his hopes of accommodation had vanished. Duero and he embraced each other like two intimate friends, who meet after a long separation and all the officers received the frazer with demonstrations of joy and respect. Before they proceeded to business, Cortes presented him with rome valuable jewels; he was regaled with great magnificence and hospitality, and staid till next day, conferring about measures to prevent a rupture, which would be so prejudicial to the in interests of Spain. Cortes manifested the greatest temper and moderation, and even offered to relinquish the Mexican conquest to his competitor, while he and his followers should engage in some other ex petition. Andres de Duero, struck with this in fiance of his modesty and self-denial, proposed an interview with Narvaez, not doubting that all their animosities would be surmounted by a personal con terence : and Cortes immediately assenting to the proposal, the secretary returned to Zempoalla, where he likewise obtained the consent of Narvaez. The tine was appointed and the place assigned, to which both parties agreed by a writing under their hands to come, accompanied by ten friends only, to wit ness the transactions of the conference. But, be' fore the day of meeting. Cortes received private ad vice from Duero, that Narvaez had resolved to lay an ambush for his life; and this intelligence being confirmed by others who wished him well, he wrote letter
a letter to Pamphilo, giving him to understand that he was no stranger to his treacherous design, re bouncing all thoughts of accommodation, and re sitting his satisfaction and revenge to the edge of the sword having thus given vent to his indignation, he pursued his march, and took his station within a league of Zempoalla, his front being defended by the river of Canoas,.and his.rear supported by the neighbourhood of Vera Cruz. He ported some sentinels on the other side of the river, detached a number of scouts to observe the country, and quartered his people in a number of cottage;, where they were sheltered from the fun, and allowed to take their repose, until he (hould obtain further intelligence of the enemy's motions. Narvaez was no sooner informed of this disposition than he drew out his army into the field, or tered the war to be proclaimed at the head of his troops, and a reward of two thousand pieces of eight to be offered to any person who should bring, him the head of Herman Cortes: and, at the same time, he set a price upon the lives of Gonzalo de Santo,. val, and Juan Velasquez de Leon-the he march ed about a quarter of a league to an open field, where he waited for Cortes, vainly imagining that experienced captain would forego the advantages of his situation, in order to engage an enemy who had three times the number of his men. Towards the close of the day, the weather, all of a sudden, grew dark and cloudy, and such a prodigious quantity of rain descended, that the soldiers were instantly wet to the skin, their arms rendered use]el', their foot ing unsure, they cursed the author of their expedition and, with loud clamour, insisted upon return in:, immediately to their quarters. Narvaez was obliged to comply with their request:, and never dreaming that Cortes would pats the river in such night,
night-he retreated to Zempoalla with great disorder and confusion. Nevertheless, as he intended t, take the field again early in the morning, he would, not allow his troops to separate, but lodged them il the p: incipit temple of the city, furnished with three towers, and built upon an eminence, which thei ascended by many ill-contrived steps, which ren cared it very difficulty access. On the top of thes he planted his artillery; he fixed his head-quarter! in the middle tower, to which he retired with for officers, and about one hundred soldiers in whonr he chiefly confided; the rest of the army was ditri. tbuted in the other to sers: some horse were sent out to patrole in the neighbourhood of the town, and sentinels being placed at the avenues, he went to rest without any farther concern.,Andres de Duero fen instantly one of the rr.en in whom re confided, to apprise Cones of their re treat, and the manner in which they were disposed; not with any view to encourage him to any ime. date undertaking, but merely that he might pals the night in quiet, without any apprehension of be ing attacked in his quarters.,Hernan, however, no sooner received this information than he resolved to take advantage of the Favourable moment. He instantly revolved his scheme, which at once met with the approbation of his officers; he assembled his people without delay, notwithstanding the continuance of the tempest; and when they had passed the river, with the water above their middle, made a short speech, in which he informed them of the enemy's disorder, defc:ictd the manner in which they were quartered in til temple, their carelessness and security, and explain ed the facility of attacking, and routing them in the dark, before they should have terre to join, or b crown up for their defence This information he min.!;d with proper incentives, touching the inl1-,lence
hence and treachery of Narvaez, as well as the jus time of his own cause : so that his soldiers, being fired with resentment, called aloud to him to lead them forthwith to the enemy; and some of them protested openly, that if ever he should admit another thought of accommodation with Narvaez, they would on the instant withdraw their obedience thus certified of their alacrity and attachment, he formed them into three small battalions, the first of which was commanded by Gonzalo de'Sandoval, the second was led by Chrifloval de Oiled, and Cortes took the command of the rest in persan. Gonzalo had orders to begin the attack by mounting the flairs, seizing the artillery, and cutting off the com mutilation between the two lateral towers: Chris total was directed to assault the tower in which Narvaez lodged ; and Cortes with his men resolved to second and support both attacks as occasion should require: he likewise gave orders, that,, as soon as the aCtion should begin, the drums Should beat, and the trumpets with other warlike instruments found, in order to increase the terror and confusion of the ene my. Father Bartholome, after a pious exhortation gave them his benediction; the word was el Spirit Sancho ; and the most profound silence being recommended to them, the general began his march at a very slow pace, that they might not be fatigued before they came to action, and that the enemy might at their arrival be lulled in security and sleeps H AP.
CHAP. XIII. Cortes marches down upon the enemy,, wh are warned,of his approach ; and driven from one of their strain holds ; wvhil; Narvaez their general loses an ere; is ak n prisoner, and bis army completely rout ed; whereby-cries obtains considerable reinforce. menrts and is be ter able than ever to pursuers con qupess. H -E had not proceeded, above half a league when his scouts returned with a sentinel of Narvaez, whom they had surprised, though his com. panton had escaped among the bushes. In consequence of this accident, a short consultation was held among the officers, who were unanimously of opinion, that the soldier, even if he should have discovered their march, would not be so rash as to return by the dire road, but rather take a round about way to avoid danger; in which case, they, by hastening their march, would probably reach Zem- poaila as soon as he: and, though they might nnt fnd the foe asleep, at least they Should have the ad vantage of attacking them in the disorder of their first waking. They therefore mended their pace, and left their horses, baggage, and other incumbrances by a little brook on the road-side: but, in finite of all the expedition they could use, the sentinel, winged by fear, arrived a few minutes before them, and gave the alarm, crying aloud, " The enemy is " upon us." He was immediately carried before Narvaez, who slighted his intelligence, holdings impossible that Cortes would presume to attack him with such a small number of men, or even march in such a dark tempestuous night mean while Herman reached Zempoalla a little after mid-night, without having been discovered by,the
the enemy's cavalry, who had either lost their way in the dark, or quitted the road to seek some shelter against the rain: he entered the town, and even came in sight of the temple, without finding any corps de garde, or being challenged bygone sentinel, at the very time when the soldier affirmed to Larvae that he had seen the vanguard of Cortes .and his whole army upon a hasty march. That self sufficient officer full disbelieved his assertion, while his soldiers, who had taken to their arms, walked backwards and forwards in the porch, fill dubious of the truth, though prepared in a good measure for whatever thotild happen cortes soon perceived they had discovered him, and, as there was no time to lose, gave the signal for the attack; in consequence of which, Gonzalo de Sandoval began to mount the flairs, when the people belonging to the artillery who were upon guard fired two or three pieces, and by that alarm confirmed the truth of the soldier's report. The noise of the cannon was immediately succeeded by that of the drums, trumpets, and confused cries of the soldiers, who repaired to the defence of the flairs. Theafiion began with great warmth; the dispute soon came to push of pike, and stroke of sword; and Gonzalo de Sandoval was very hard pressed in at tempting to force his way against the disadvantage of the ground, and the superior number of the ene my: but it was not long before Chriftoval de Old came to his relief; and Herman Cortes quitting the rear, threw himself sword in hand into the hottest of the engagement, with such resolution and impetuosity that nothing could withstand him. The enemy, in a few moments, began to give ground, and soon retreated in great disorder, abandoning the porch and artillery. Many fled to their quarters while ethers repaired to the gate of the principal tower,,where.
where the dispute was renewed, and continued some time with great obflinacv.,Parphilo de Narvaez, having put on his armour, exerted all his endeavours to rally his troops, and with great resolution rushed into the milt of the battle, where his eye being thrust out with a pike, he fell to the ground, exclaiming, " I am a dead " man." This accident completed the confusion of his soldiers, some of whom abandoned him same. fully, while others flood like statues, as if they had been thunderstruck, or fought with such disorder and despair, that they were easily routed, and their general taken prisoner. The dispute was now at an end, for want of resistance ; for the enemy had shut themselves up in the towers, where they re gained in the utmost consternation ; and the follow hers of Cortes proclaimed their victory with loud acclamations, which served to increase the fear of the vanquished. Their terror was also augmented by-numerous lights in the country, which, tho' reia!y produced from a kind of glow-worms, exhibited the appearance of arquebusiers with lighted matches, and were supposed to be a body of auxiliaries marching to the assistances of Cortes, so much wis their understanding o empowered by the transports of their apprehension.,Hernan, having silenced the shouts of his people, ordered the artifice y to be. turned against the travers, and a general pardon to be proclaimed for these who would surrender, offering advantageous conditions to such as would engage in his service ; and liberty, with a free pasSage, to tune who were desirous of returning to the island of Cuba. This prudent step, which he took in the sill tumult of their fear, be fore they cult discern the weakness of his force, or form any distinct plan of defence, was attended by all the success he could desire: for, no sooner were there terms propu'f.d at the three towers, than,both
'both officers and soldiers came to surrendering whole 'companies, and laid their arms at the feet of Cortes, who received them with that generous urbanity which was peculiar to his disposition; tho' he took care to have them divided and properly guarded, un til day hould discover their different countenances and affections. After he had given these necessary directions, he went to visit Narvae-z, 'who had been committed to the care of Gonzalo de Sandoval, and whose wound was already dressed ; and that of nicer seeing him enter the apartment, " Thank " God, captain Cortes (said he) for your good for " tune in making me your prisoner." " Thanks be " to God for li things, friend Narvaez, (he re " plied) but, vanity apart, I look upon this vic " tory, and your imprisonment, amongst the heats " considerable nations which have been performed - in this country.',Being informed that one of the towers com handed by Salvatierra and Diego Velasquez the )younger, made an obstinate defence, he ordered them to be summoned to surrender, and in care of refusal, threatened with the utmost rigour of war: but they, disregarding his menaces, and declaring they would either hold out to the last, or have the benefit of a capitulation, he commanded two pieces of artillery to be planted against the tower; and, upon the first discharge, the defendants called for quarter, leaving the entrance open to Juan Velasquez de Leon, who entered with a finally body, and seized Salvatierra and his namesake, who were the professed and inveterate enemies of Cortes. Thus the victory was completed in favour of Herman, who lost but four lives in the action; whereas, a cap tain, an ensign, and fifteen private men of the ene my were killed on the spot, over and above the wounded, which amounted to a considerable num ber. VOL. II. E Narvaez
Narvaez and Salvatierra were sent under a guard to Vera Cruz, and young Diego remained prisoner with Juande Velasquez, who treated him with great humanity, notwithstanding the former quarrel which had happened between them. At break of day the two thousand Chinantlans arrived ; and tho' they came a little too late, Cortes was glad of their ar. rival, that his prisoners might see he was not defli. tune of friends. The vanquished were indeed over whelmed with shame, when they perceived the small number of men by whom they had been totally de seated: they cursed the carelessness and insolences Narvaez, and could not help admiring the valour and character of their conqueror, whose banners they became ambitious of following. Cortes had many friends among them, who having founded the sentiments of their fellow-soldiers, set them an ex. ample, by desiring to be enlisted in his army; and this example was so eagerly followed, that all the prisoners called aloud to be inrolled; and not one ingle man expressed the leafs desire of returning to Cuba. Herman received them with his usual gene rofity, and ordered their arms to be restored; a reassure which, though savouring of temerity, es .actually won their hearts, and the more firmly at locked them to his interest thus, in a few hours, Cortes, by his admirable ccrduSr, bravery, and vigilance, found himself at tile he-d cf above a thousand Spaniards ; the only e:i m ie who could give him disturbance, safe in his cuIud ; a fleet of eleven sips and 'even brigantines at his disposal; the haft effort of Diego de Vela. cue entirely frustrated, and his own strength re inmfrced in such a manner, as enabled him to pro secure his former scheme with a better prospect of successive horse of Narvaez, instead of engaging in the aaron, made their escape into the country, all,being
being joined by the patrole, so as make up a troop of forty, pretended to stand upon the defensive; but they were soon brought to reason, and enlisted with Cortes, after the example of, their fellow soldiers. Care being taken of the sick and wound ed, Herman ordered Francisco de Lugo to see the sails, tackling, and rudders of all the vessels brought ashore and laid up in Vera Cruz. The pilots and mariners who came with Narvaez were brought to Zempoalla, and a sufficient number of his own people set to take care of the hulls, under the inspection of Pedro Cavallero.,C H A P. XXIV. The neighbouring caciques give Certes fresh agiran-,ces of friendship ; he resolves to divide his forces, lets their number Should give umbrage to Alotezuma ; bzt marches to Mexico, and changes his resolution, in consequence of an insurrection in tat city against his deputy; he finds the people in a very violent com inotin ; his troops are vigoroliy attacked, and all offers f peace rejected. T HEN he dismissed the Chinantlans, wither proper acknowledgments; and, during the few days that his army continued in quarters of re. freshmen, the inhabitants of the neighbouring vil stages, and caciques of the circumjacent country, came to congratulate him upon his success, renew their protestations of obedience, and make fresh of sers of their friendship. Notwithstanding this series of good fortune, Cor tes could not be easy in his own mind, while he referred upon the situation of Pedro d'Alvarado, encompassed with enemies, and at the mercy of a barbarous prince, who might be persuaded by mo-,E 2 times
times of interest, to sacri ce his honour to the ad. vantage of his empire. He, therefore, resolved to return immediately to Mexico, and that Motezuma or his people might not take umbrage at seeing him come back with such a numerous body of men, he determined to divide his army, and employment of his troops in other conquests. - With this view he ordered Juan-velasquez (e Leon, with two hundred men, to go and pacify some disturbances in the province of Panuco ; Die. go de Ordaz was to be sent with the same number to settle the country of Guazacifalco; so that he himself would have had little more than six hun. died Spaniards, who would have been sufficient to dignify his return to Mexico, without arousing the jealousy of the Indians. But this disposition he was obliged to change, in consequence of a letter from Alvarado, who gave him to understand, that in spite of montezuma, who had never once offered to leave headquarters, the Mexicans had taken up arms against him, and repeated their attacks with such obstinacy, that unless they were immediately succoured, he and all his men must inevitably peril. The fol. tier who brought this letter, was accompanied by an ambassador from Motezuma, who pressed Cor tes to return with all possible expedition, and aff-u red him that he would never abandon Alvarado and the Spaniards, even though his own life should at iake.,Hernan and his officers unanimously agreeing that no time was to be lost, Rodrigo Ranges, a man of approved fidelity, was appointed deputy governor of Vera Cruz; a garrison was left at Zempoallai with a sufficient number of men for the security of the vessels; and the army being mustered after these deductions, amounted to one thousand foot, and one hundred horse. Before his departure, Cortes sent an answer to Pedro de Alvarado, and another's
to Motezuma, giving an account of his victory, and assuring them that he would immediately come to their assistance. Accordingly he began his march, the army taking different routes, that they might, as little as possible, incommode the country through which they passed, and be the more easily supplied with provision; and a place of rendezvous was ap pointed near Tlafcala, where they joined, after hav ing sustained much hardship and fatigue; for they had marched with extraordinarydiligence. On the i7th day of June he entered Tllafcala, with all his troops in good order, and was received with great joy and affection by those faithful allies, who con firmed the account he had received of Alvarado's situation, and dwelt upon rome particulars which they exaggerated, on purpose to incense him against the Mexicans whom they detailed: nay, in order to complete his vengeance upon those people, whom they wished to see extirpated, the senate. roofed to assemble a!l the troops of the republic for his ser vice; but, as he had no intention to at as mlri;- ser of their implacable enmity, he declined the of ser, and contented himself with a body of two thou sand, which in all probability he accepted, that he might not seem to flight their 'alliance without having met with any finisher incident upon the road, he arrived at Mexico on St. John's day, and palled the lake without the least opposition, tho' he perceived many marks of hostile fury: such as the two Spanish brigantines slaved to pieces and half-burnt; the suburbs and barrier abandoned, the bridges that served for the communication of the streets, broken down; with all which a profound silence prevailed over the city. In consequence of thelc suspicious symptoms, the infantry were or tered to slacken their pace, and the cavalry to go before and reconnoitre, until the Spaniards in Mexico discovering the army, raised a great fbout,,E 3 and
and dissipated their apprehensions. Pedro de Alva. ado came down with his people, and received them at the gate of the quarters, where the soldiers and cf. fibers embraced each other with the sincerest marks of pleasure and affection; and Motezuma went as far as the outward court to meet Cortes, whom he caressed in a transport of joy, which could not possibly be the effet of dissimulation the whole army being quartered within the walls of the palace, proper guards appointed, and sentinels placed, Herman retired with Pedro de Aivarado, to inquire into the cause of that sedition among the Mexicans, by which he had been so much endangered. That officer gave him to un derfland, that soon after his departure from Mexi. co, the nobles had behaved with less respect and complaisance than usual; that from the information of a trusty spy, he learned the people were con. driving something extraordinary, because they fie tquntiy assembled in privates that ekpn ret tb!ing his diligence, he obtained certain intelligence that a conspiracy was hatched against the Spaniards a.'d their intention was to assemble the inhabitants, on pretence of celebrating annual dances called Militates; on which occasion, the nobles would harangue the multitude, and proceed immediately to the Spanifl quarters, in order to extirpate those insolent strangers who kept their monarch prisoner, and treated even their gods with outrage and con tempt. On the morning that preceded the ap pointed day, fume of the chief promoters of this sedition came to ask Alvarado's permission to ce-ebra:e their festival but, that very night, he un derflcod, they were busily employed inconcealinga confiderabie quantity of arms in houses near the temple. Then all his doubts vanished, and he re solved to anticipate the execution of their scheme, by assaulting them before they should have timeto,take
take arms or raise the populace. He accordingly went forth, accompanied by fifty of his men, on pretence of seeing the diversion, and finding them intoxicated with liquor and excess of joy, he at tacked and dispersed them without: opposition; a good number was killed and wounded in their flight, and there being stripped of their jewels and ornaments by the Spaniards, Alvaralo retired with out making the people acquainted with the motives of his indignation; so that they imputed the assault to his avarice alone, and the slaughter and pillage of their nobility before their eyes incensed them to such a degree, that they presently ran to arms, and, in a twinkling, a very formidable insurrection en sued. They had made several attacks upon the quarters, and even killed three or four Spaniards; by which exploits, their courage and presumption feared so high, that, far from fearing the resentment of Cortes with his increased army, they had re treated to another pert of the town, and left the entrance free, that, after all the Spaniards should be united in one body, they might surround and de stroy them at once.,Hernan severely reprehended Arvarado for his rashness and want of consideration, in leaving the quarters, and hazarding himself and his people, when the city was in such commotion; and above all, for his having concealed from Motezuma the first intelligence he had received; he likewise blamed him for his inadvertency, in retiring without having explained to the populace the cause of such a violent assault; and Alvarado was so well con winced of his own indiscretion, that he desired he might be imprisoned, with a view to appease their clamours, and facilitate the reduction of the enraged multitude they attempted nothing that whole night, and the same mysterious silence prevailing next mornings 4 Cortes
Cortes ordered Diego de Ordaz, at the head of four hundred Spaniards and Tlafca'an soldiers, to reckon. r. ire the principal streets, and, if possible, dive into their defiance had not proceeded far, v;h n he discovered a body of armed men, detached on purpose to decoy and draw him on; and having advanced a good way, in order to take some pri. steers, he was all at once oppclf:d by an innumerable multitude, who marched boldly up to his front; another army, which had been concealed in the cross streets, attacked him in the rear, and all the terraces and windows on 'each side were filled with armed men, who (lowered upon them an infinite quantity of stones and missile wear pons diego de Ordaz, finding his retreat cut of in such a manner that he could not apprize Cortes of his danger, formed a second front with his rear, and ordered his men to employ their pikes and fords against the torrents of enemies below, while his fire-arms were plyed against those above. The heat of the engagement was not of long continu ance; for though the Indians advanced with great fire and resolution, their attacks were carried on in such a tumultuous manner, that confusion and disorder immediately ensued, and they soon retired to a distance where they cou'd neither offend nor be offended. The windows and terraces being quickly cleared by the fire-arms, Diego de Ordaz thought it was time to retreat, though he was beset in such a manner as obliged him to cut his way sword in hand, and, before he could reach the quart rs, he and :he greatest part of his men were v.'ou:ded, and ievsen soldiers left dead upon the spot cortes found by this experiment, that it was now no time to negociate, and resolved to make a ge nero! slay with the greater part of his forces. in,ordri
order to compel them, by dint of hostilities, to sue for an accommodation: for, Motezuma was diffident of his own authority, nor had the insurrection any leader of influence, with whom he could enter into a treaty mean while, the Mexicans looking upon the re treat of Diego de Ordaz as a flight, followed him with inconceivable fury and resolution, until the ar tiller from the quarters made a terrible slaughter; in consequence of which they fell back, though they halted in sight, in order to form a new plan, that they might return to the attack with redoubled vi gour. All the streets were immediately filled with armed men; thir drums and shells sounded the fig nat for the assault; and they advanced again with great impetuosity, their vanguard being composed of archers to clear the walls, that the rest of the army might approach: and indeed, their discharges were so thick, that the quarters were almost filled with arrows ; and the Spaniards obliged to employ a number of hands to remove them, otherwise they would have blocked up the way to the ram parts. While the archers were thus employed, the rest ruffled in like a flood, notwithstanding the ter rible havock which the cannon and small arms made among them; they even advanced to the very gates, which they endeavoured to demolish with their sint ed instruments ; rome leaped-upon the shoulders of their companions, and others made ladders of their lances or pikes, in order to scale the walls or the windows; as one set were wounded and fell, others fiuptlid their places, trampling upon the bo dies of their friends and countrymen, as if they had been strangers to fear or compassion; and, in a word, they fought like savage beasts of prey, when mad Denied by famine and revenge. 'Nevertheless, they were at length repulsed, and retired to the cross trees for cover till the approach of night, whence 5 they
they raised another terrible alarm, by shooting sir. arrows into the quarters, so as to produce a dread ful conflagration in different parts of the building, which obliged the Spaniards to break down walls, in order to prevent the communication of the flames, and afterwards toil, during the greatest part of the night, in repairing the breaches they had made, that they might be in a proper posture of defence.,In the morning, the enemy appeared at a distance-hemming afraid' of advancing within cannon shot, and provoked the Spaniards with injurious reproach es, to come forth to battle. Cortes, who had been resolved to make a sally, took the opportunity of tilts provocation to inflame the minds of his soldiers with a Short (speech, exhorting them to revenge, and finding them impatient of delay, formed his whose force into three battalions, two of which were ordered to clear the cross-street, while he himself, at the head of the third, should take the street of Tacuba, where the greatest body of the enemy was posted and as he laid:his account with being attacked in front and rear at the same time, ,he formed a double front in each division, accord ing to the method. followed by Diego.de Ordaz in has retreat.,iTis disposition being made, they sallied forth upon the Mexicans, who sustained the first charge without giving ground, and even fought hand to hand with clubs and two handed swords, which they managed with desperate fury . nor could the fire-arms, which were levelled at the galleries and 'windows, prevent the flowers of stones and javelins .which fell so thick that it was. necessary to set scene houses on fire. At lais, the. Indians gave v ay, but, as they retreated, they broke down the bridges of the streets, so that the Spaniards were-obliged tofill up the ditches, before they could pro. hecate .the victory. Wliae Cortes advanced in this,manne;,
manner, the other two battalions charged the multitude that possessed the streets on the sides, and, by these means, secured a retreat, and drove the enemy in a body before them, until they penetrated as far as the opening into a large square, where the three divisions joined, and the Mexicans betook themselves to flight with the same precipitation which had appeared in their attack cortes would not allow his men to prosecute this victory, but retired without opposition, having lost ten or twelve soldiers in the alison, which cost the enemy so dear that the-canals of the city were tinged with blood, and the dead bodies lay in in credible heaps, as so many spectacles of horror . During three days, which Herman allotted for the cure of the wounded, and the refreshment of' his troops, be artfully renewed his overtures of peace,. by means of some Mexicans, who were in the ser vice of Motezuma, and went out with divers pro pofals: but they were extremely.ill treated by the enemy, and some of them never returned; dread ing, perhaps, the risk of being involved in the de instruction of the Spaniards, for which they saw such formidable preparations on foot. Nor did Cortes confide so much in his negociation, as to slacken ins his vigilance and precaution. Among other expedients he contrived four wooden towers to be moved by wheels, each capable of containing twenty or thirty men, who could fight under co ver, in firing houses or breaking through the bar ricadoes which were raised in the principal streets, There machines being finished, he, with the ap probation of Motezuma, who wished for nothing *so much as the reduction of his rebellious subjects, mad: a secant ally with the major part of the Spa regards, the whole body of Tlafcalansy who had done good service in the last engagement, ,fie pieces of artillery, the wooden towers, and a few,Â£ A k4.
led horses, to be uSed occasionally. The Mexicans,. who had augmented their army, which was con. neared by the principal nobles, waited for them in profound silence; b.::'. ro sooner had the Christians begun their march. than they were surprized: with :he hoarse and dismal, sound of their drums 2nd sea-shells, and the shouts of an innumerable multi. tujde, which advanced with unusual regularity and amazing resolution, giving and receiving the first charge without flinching: nay, when they were obiit to give ground, they retired leisurely, with. out turning their backs, and, at every canal or barricade, renewed the fit with such obstinacy,. that they could not be dislodged without the artillery. They discharged their lances and arrows in a regular manner; home of them swam up and down the ca nails, seeking opportunities to wound the Spaniard with long pikes; they tumbled down from thegal- series and terraces great stones and fragments of rocks, provided for the purpose, by which the mo ;ting towers were in a little time shattered to pieces; End, in a word, fought with such method and alacrity as plainly denoted their attention to the orders of one man, whom they obeyed as their sovereign-ate Er-ser al.H:,C H' A, P.
CH A P. XXV. Se sight is renewed with greater vigour than ever ,the Indian emperor continues faithful to Cortes, and harangues the Mexicans; but is wounded by attained. and expires, conjuring Cortes to avenge his fall; he is buried by his fibres with great solemnity and la." w nations; a new emperor chosen ; a bold attempt of two Indians upon the person of' Cries, who ;mi raculozfly escapes the nos imminent danger. T HE engagement lasted the greatest part of tuesday; great damage was done to the city by burning the houses, and the Mexicans lost an ocean of blood; but, as the Spaniards and their confederates met with such opposition, and were obliged to dispute the ground by inches from trench to trench, night drew on before Cortes could make.' much progress, and as he could not pretend to maintain the posts he had gained, he retired to his quarters with the.lofs of forty men, chiefly Olaf. calais: tho' fifty Spaniards were grievously wound ed, and he himself shot with an arrow in the left hand. But,.his internal anguish was much more violet than the pain of this external hurt. He considered that notwithstanding the advantage he had over the Mexicans in valour aru military skill, his numbers must insensibly diminish, in a series of such victories; and that, in case of a general revolt against Motezuma, they might easily starve him in his quarters. Nor did the Indian emperor pass the. night with more tranquillity: he had, from the highest turret of the palace, observed the battle, in. which he could easily distinguish the cacique of Iztapalapa, and other nobles-who might aspire to the empire. He dreaded the loss of his authority,. and foreseeing that he Could never hope to retrieve ' she
the submission and obedience of his subject, while the Spaniards remained in Mexico, he in the morn ing sent for Cortes, to whom he communicated his sentiments, conjuring him to quit the city, that he might return to his own palace, resume the reins of government, and quell the editions of his people. Herman-made a virtue of necessity, and assented to the proposal, resolving to retire for the present, that he might have leisure to concert a new plan, and be enabled to execute it with-a 'better .prospect of success. But this conference was in interrupted by an alarm, in consequence of which, he learned that the enemy was advancing with great fury to make a general attack upon the quarters. Indeed they rushed on with such impetuosity, that notwithstanding the havock made among them by the artillery, finally arms, and valour of the defendants Come of them got footing within the very works; so that Herman-was obliged to-form a body of reserve in the principal court, from which he sent detachments occasionally, to support those who were hard pressed or fatigued with aaron. In this emergency, Motezuma proposed that he should chew himself to his vassals from the wall, command the seditious populace to retire, and order the no. boles to come unarmed into his presence, that he might know and take measures to redress their grievances. This proposal being approved by Cor ses, who hoped that his appearance would at leaf give the Spaniards some breathing time, though it might not be attended with any other advantage, the emperor instantly adorned himself with his imperial ensigns, wearing the crown, the mantle, and the jewels, which he displayed upon the most solemn occasions, and mounted the terrace fronting the great avenue, attended by the principal Mexicans who continued in his service. He passed through a lane .seamed by the .garrison, and one ol,1 viÃ³
his attendants advancing to the rails, called with a loud voice to the rebels, that the great Motezuma had condescended to come forth, in order to hear and redress their grievances. At: mention of his name, their outcries instantly ceased; they flood motionless and silent, as if they had been over awed by the pretence of something supernatural; and when he appeared, the whole multitude hum bled themselves to the earth. He looked around him with an air of majesty, and distinguishing the nobles in the croud, desired them severally by name to approach: then having honoured them with the appellation of friends and kinsmen, he thanked .them for the zeal and affection they had expressed for his person, and made short harangue to the people, representing that they were actuated by a principle of mistaken loyalty; that his residing among the Spaniards was not the effet of compulsion ; that he was now resolved to dismiss the strangers from his court; and that he expeCted his sub. jess would therefore lay down their arms, in which case he would freely pardon the outrages they had already committed such condescension in a prince, whose corn hands they had been used to obey with fear and trembling, made such impression upon the hearers, that many wept with compalfionrto.fee the emperor Â£o humbled: and the rest hung their heads. in silence and suspense, when, all of a sudden, this favour able disposition was destroyed, .by the murmurs of some emissaries belonging to. the prince who was designed as successor to Motezmna. They up braided this unhappy prince with the-epithets of coward, prisoner, and slave, and raised such aclai your among the people, that their compassion was turned into rage; they curled him with the moth-opprobrious invectives i his motions with. the head 'ad hand. were disregarded; his efforts to feak,wesrc
were rendered ineffectual by their repeated shouts; and, at last, they let fly a shower of arrows again him. Two soldiers, who were placed near him, endeavoured to cover him with their bucklers; but, in spite of all their care, he was wounded in different places, and received upon his temple a terrible blow with a stone, which felled him to the ground, Cortes, whose grief at this accident was inexpressible caused him to be carried to his apartment, while he himself giving way to the first transports of his indignation, resolved to slay and take vengeance upon the authors of this misfortune. But he found no enemy upon whom he could wreak his.refentment; for, the Mexicans, seeing the em pero fall, were struck with such horror and con operation, that they instantly fled, as if they had thought themselves pursued by the judgment of heaven the hapless Motezuma soon recovered his fen nation, to feel the keenest pangs of despair. He became frantic with rage, imprecated the most dreadful curses upon his rebellious vassals; lent a deaf ear to the remonstrances and consolations of the general, who exerted all his eloquence to tooth and comfort his affection; and when his wounds were dressed, tore off the dressings, and attempted to put an end to his life; so that it was necessary to restrain him by force. The wound in his head was of itself very dangerous, but his violent agi nation of mind and body for rendered it mortal; and he absolutely refused to take any manner of sustenance. Certes perceiving the emperor's end approaching, conjured him to have some regard to his soul, by renouncing his idolatry, and embracing the true religion; father Bartholomew d'Olmedo employed all his rhetoric to the same purpose, and Donna Marina did als that was in her power to facilitate his conversion. But all their endeavours,Were
were ineffectual; he continued firm and bigotted to. the superstition of his own country, and expired in a delirium of passion,. after having conjured this general to revenge his death ,The deplorable fate of Motezurna overwhelmed' Cortes with grief and concern, which he could not, help manifesting by his tears: he had a sincere as season for that prince, and his whole hope of suc cess centered in his voluntary submission to the king of Spain y so that now he found himself ob lived to form a new plan, and quit allIthe-advan, takes he enjoyed by his influence at the court of Mexico. In-this perplexity, the fit shep he took was to appoint six of Motezuma's principal at tenants, (Tome of whom were priests) to carry out his body to the rebels and tell the princes who head ed them, that he had sent them the corpse of their late sovereign, whom they themselves had murder ed; and who, before his death, had conjured hinrr by the most pressing instances to revenge his wrongs, and chastise them for their abominable rebellion: but, as he supposed the insurrection was owing to, the brutal fury of the populace, unapproved by the nobles, he once more proposed peace., and gave them. leave to send deputies, assuring them he was ready to accept any reasonable conditions; whereas, fi.auld they negle his proposal, he would treat them as the worst of rebels, and Motezuma being dead, out of respect to whom he had hitherto mo. debated his resentment, he would lay waste their city, and destroy them with fire and sword.,At a small distance from the quarters, the bearers of the corpse were met by a body of the inhabitants who threw down their arms and followed this venerable burthen with marks of the moRi profound rever nee and respect. All the pots were alan donec, the city was filled with outcries and lamentations and though they had already elected another's perry
emperor, they did not fail to testify their penitence by the most violent expressions of sorrow, repeat. ing the name of Motezuma, and running upland down the streets in clamorous tumults, which did not subside till morning, when they conveyed him to the mountain of Chapultepeque, and there per. formed his obsequies with great solemnity and un common signs of contrition thus fell Motezuma, the most powerful emperor who had ever set upon the Mexican throne; he reigned seventeen years, was the eleventh in the number of emperors, and second of the name. He left four sons and three-daughters; two of the former, who lived with their father in his confine. ment, were killed by the Mexicans in the retreat of Cortes: the ladies were afterwards converted and married to Spaniards. But the most illustrious of all his descendants was his son. who; at his baptism, took the name of Don Pedro de Motezuma, and received many favours from his majesty, who not only gave him considerable possessions in New Spain, but also honoured him with the title of Count de Motezuma, which is still preserved by his pofierity.,During the last illness of the emperor, the Mexicans made no attempt upon the Spanish quarters; a cessation which Cortes attributed to the conscious horror of the crime they had committed: tho', in fah, it was owing to the avocation of their leaders and nobility, who were wholly engrossed by the inauguration of Quilavaca, cacique of Iztapalapa, whom they had raised to the throne of Mexico: this prince, however, did not many days survive his exaltation, and his memory is almost forgot among the Indians of that country instead of listening to the proposals sent by the servants of Motezuma, the Mexicans renewed the war with greater vigour than they had ever exerted. On the morning that succeeded the funeral of their,late
late emperor, all the streets were, by break of day, filled with armed men, and they had garrisoned the towers of a temple which overlooked and com handed part of the Spanish quarters. This important post, which was defended by five hundred chosen men of the nobility, Cortes resolved to carry at all events. He drew the greatest part of his strength without the wall, and having formed a number of battalions sufficient to cut off all com mutilation between those who were in the towers and the rest of the Indians, he ordered captain Escobar, with his company reinforced .by one hun died Spaniards, to attack the temple, which was of difficult access. This officer was permitted to reach the lower porch without opposition; but, all at once, the defendants, from the upper porch, made such a terrible discharge of arrows, lances, huge stones, and half burnt beams of timber, provided for the occasion, that the assailants were put in dis. order, and, after having returned three times to the attack, obliged to retreat in confusion cortes, who with a troop of horse was em played in supporting those who needed his assistance, no sooner beheld the discomfiture of Escobar, than he flew to his succour. Having quitted his horse, he caused a shield to be fattened to his wounded arm, and unsheathing his sword, advanced to the flairs with such intrepidity as inspired his followers with ambition to imitate his glorious example. The action was instantly renewed with amazing ob ftinacy. The defendants fought hand to hand, like men determined to die rather than surrender; the very priests fell valiantly fighting and exhorting in the name of their gods; and though the valour of Cortes and his followers was irresistable, the Mexicans suffered themselves to be cut in pieces to a man, before the Christians could obtain possession e the poll, which was gained, however, without,the
the loss of one Spanish soldier, though many were wounded. In the heat of this engagement, two Indians, who had devoted their lives to the service of their country, seeing the general upon the top of the temple, threw down their arms, and approach ed him like suppliants, then starting up and seizing. him with great violence, endeavoured to push him over the rails; but, finding they could not accomplish their aim, as he disengaged himself with some difficulty, they threw themselves headlong from the tower, and dashed their brains out against the pavement the general ordered a considerable quantity of provision, which was found in this temple, to be conveyed to the quarters; then he commanded the Tiafcalans to set fire to the building and several other houses, so as that the artillery might com and the whole eminence,: and taking a view of the engagement below, he perceived the Spaniards very warmly charged in the street of Tacuba, which they defended with great difficulty. He forthwith mounted his horse and hastened to their assistance, after having ordered Escobar, with whig men, to follow with all possible expedition. Mean while, he attacked the multitude at the head of his cavalry, winding, killing, or trampling under foot, all that flood in his way : but, yielding too much to the impetuosity of his own courage, he. advanced into the croud so far before the rest of his troops, that his retreat was effectually cut off, and riding into another street, where he hoped to meet with lets resistance. he fell in among a body of Mexicans who had taken his friend Andres de Due'o, in consequence of his horse s having stumbled, and were conveying him alive as a sacrifice to their gods. Cortes instantly charged them with inconceivable fury, so as to disorder the whole convoy, and Duro taking this opportunity of their confusion,
sion, and drawing a poignard which they had over looked when they disarmed him, disengaged him self by the death of those who held him; then re covering his horse and lance, the two friends broke through all opposition, at a full gallop, and. effected a most miraculous retreat the Mexicans now retired on all sides with great precipitation, and the general withdrew his men .into the quarters, after they had made dreadful ha .rock among the enemy, and burned a good part of the city.; and what contributed to the purer en moment of the viaory, they had not'loft one man during the whole engagement: tho' the Mexicans, ,in painting this.day's exploit, which they considered as one of the most remarkable onions of Cortes, represented several Spaniards precipitated from the towers of the temple, and several lying dead and wounded below: an instance of' that partiality which is found in the hiftorians.of.almoit every na tion under the fun.,CHAP,
C H A P. XXVI. The Indians every where defeated; have recourse it,Jfratagem on the failure of force ; but Cortes prey pares to counteract them; and evacuates mexico. with his army by night, he is a faulted in hia retreat, loses a great many men, and all his pri. somers, and is engaged in many dangerous skirmishes; but at length obtains a precise vilovrys seizing the royal Standard of Mexico.,E XT day, the enemy demanded a parley, which being granted by Cortes, some of the nobles approached the walls, and proposed from the new emperor, that the Spaniards should immediately march down to the sea-side, and embark in their large canoes; in which case there would be a cessation from all hostilities: but, should this pro. psal be reseated, every soul of them nuit inevitably perish; for the Mexicans were now convinced by experience that the Spaniards were mortal, and though the death of every Christian should cost them twenty thousand lives, they were resolved to con tinge their attacks, and would have a number of men, at last, sufficient to rejoice at their success.,Ccrtes replied, that the Spaniards never pretended to be immortal; tho' they were so much superior to the Mexicans in courage and all other respects, that, with his handful of men, he durst undertake the destruction of their whole empire: but being moved with the calamities they had already suffered through their own obstinacy, he was determined to depart, especially since his business was at an end, by the death of Motezuma, whose friendship and bounty had detained him at Mexico; and that he only waited until the necessary preparations couldst be
be made for his march, and other articles agreed upon, for the advantage and satisfaction of both parties the deputies seemed to be very well pleased with this answer, tho' the overtures they had made were calculated for a very perfidious purpose. In a word, it had been agreed, in the council of the new em pero, to distress the Spaniards by Famine, and ra ther than expose themselves to such terrible slaughter as they had always suffered from the artillery and fire-arms, amuse the Christians with negociation. until they should be weakened and dispirited by hunger, when they could fall upon them with more advantage. They recollected that: three sons of Motezuma, and other persons of distinction, were prisoners in the Spanish quarters; but all there they willingly devoted as sacrifices to the good of their country, except their chief priest, whom they re vexed as the second person in the empire, and re solved, if possible, to deliver for this purpose, the deputies returned that same evening, to propose that some of the Mexican prisoners should be sent to the emperor with instructions touching the capitulation, that there might be no misunderstanding in the case; and artfully hinted that no body was To proper as a certain ancient priest, who, being an intelligent man, would be able to explain all doubts, and remove whatever difficulties might be Started. The general perceived their drift, but concealed his suspicion, that he might be more fully certified of their real designs; and he was not at all sorry to part with an old wicked idolater, whose person and principles he abhorred. He therefore assented to the proposal, and made the priest acquainted with his demands, touching the necessaries he (hould want for his march; re solving, should he really return, to explain himself by some additional stipulations, importing that they,should
"hould lay down their arms ard deliver hostages; with other matters of greater consequence. But they had no intention to send him back, or to agree to any pacific convention; on the contrary, the sentinels discovered that the enemy were busily. played in calling up trenches and works to defend-the passage of the canals, and'had detached somebodies of men to the lake, in order to break down the bridges of the principal causey, and cut dss all communication with the road leading to Tlafcala, Cortes, alarmed at this intelligence, ordered his men to make a pontoon or bridge of boards for those openings, firing enough to bear the weight of the artillery, and so portable, as to be carried by forty meanwhile his people were employed in executing-this contrivance, he assembled his captains, in order to determine whether they should retreat by day or by night; for he had, by this time, resolved to re. tire to Tlafcala, and there take measures for returning to the siege of Mexico. The majority of the officers advised a retreat by night, in consideration of the Indian superstition, which hindered them from engaging an enemy after sun-set; and on the supposition that, trusting to the negociation, they had made no preparation for attacking them in-their march upon the causey, by means of their canoes, which they could not easily assemble or manage in the dark. This opinion was warmly opposed by a good number, in which Cortes was himself included, who represented the inconveni. envies and danger that would attend the march of an army, with baggage and impediments, through an uncertain road, raised upon the waters, in the obscurity of a tempestuous night and rainy season, which could not fail to retard and impede the laying of bridges; they likewise demonstrated how little stress could be laid upon the custom or common,* ma ux5
maxims of the Mexicans, who had already in fringed them, in setting fire to the quarters and taking possession of the temple by night; and expatiated upon the disgrace of retreating with the ap appearance of flight, by which the, should hazard the friendship and esteem of their Indian confederates The question in dispute being put .to the vote, the majority declared for. the first proposal, to which Cortes assented, and it was reformed. to begin their march that very night, that the enemy might have the less time to fortin obstructions. - Herman is said to have sacrificed his own opinion the more readily on this occasion, because he was influenced by the prediction of a private soldier called Othello, who pretended to divination, and exhorted him to march away'that very night, other wife he h ould lose the greatest part of his army. Though Cortes generally laughed at the prognostic of this pretended-astrologer, he now seemed to life with more than ordinary attention, as, in all probability, the fellow happened ti accost him in one of those moments of 'weakness;, from which the greatest men are not exempted.,As soon as the carpenters had finished the pon toon, which was thought sufficient to answer all the gaps in the causey, by being removed from one to another occasionally, Cortes dispatched another Mexican deputy, in order to amuse the enemy with further proposals of peace, while he made the pro per dispositions for his retreat, and gave his cap pains necessary intrusions how to behave in all emergencies. His vanguard consisted of two hun died Spanish soldiers, 'with the choicest of the Tlafcalans, and twenty horse, under the command of Gonzalo de Sandoval, Francisco de Azebedo, I)iego de Ordaz, Francisco de Lugo, and Andres de Tapia. The rear-guard, composed of a greater number of horse and foot, was conducted by Pedro VOL. II. F de
de Alvarado, Juan Velasquez de Leon, and some other captains, who had come with Narvaez. The prisoners, artillery, and baggage, with the.main body of the army, were in the centre ;and he him. self, assisted by Alonfo Davila, Chrifloval de Olid, and Bernardino Vasquez de Tapia, reserved one hundred choice men to be employed as necessity should require. This order being formed, he caused the treasure to be brought into his apart. ment, and deducting one fifth for the king, in those-things which were mos portable, he delivered into the commissary, together with a mare of his own, and some wounded horses for the carriage. The remainder, amounting to upwards of seven hundred thousand pieces of eight, he left as a useless and dangerous incumbrance; but, finding the soldiers unwilling to lose their share of such a rich prize, he gave them to understand that they might take what they could conveniently carry. In confer. quench of this permission, some of the most ava vicious, particularly of those who had come with Narvaez, loaded themselves in such a changeful manner, that they staggered under their burthens there previous steps being taken, and the soldiers encouraged by a short speech from Cortes, who, above all things, recommended vigilance and caution lest they should under-rate the opposition of the enemy, they began their march about mid night, with great silence and circumspection; the wetness of the weather and darkness of the night favouring their motion; and the pontoon, which they carried in the front, was laid over the first ca nat before they met with the least opposition; but, the weight of the artillery and horse jammed it Ls fast among the stones on each side, that they found it impracticable to remove it; and indeed they had neither time nor opportunity for the attempt: s0o caen before the army had paid the firth breach of,~~~~~~~~~~~2 the
the causey, they were suddenly assaulted on. every side, and obliged to take to their arms with.the ut. Moat 'precipitation. The enemy had observed the motions of the Spaniards, assembled their troops and canoes in such a manner as to cover the lake on each side of the causey, and began the attack with so much regularity and silence, that the Christians did not hear their shells and outcries until they felt themselves wounded by their arrows, Had .they preserved the same good order during the engage ment, Cortes and his whole army must have been destroyed; but they Goon relapsed into their own na tural confuted way of charging in heaps, by which means their canoes ran foul of each other, and were shattered to pieces, To that the Spaniards made terrible slaughter among the disorderly multitude, un til their arms were wearied with the work of death, They were likewise attacked ill front, by those who, being impatient of inaction, had thrown themselves into the lake, and clambered up to the causey, ii order to dispute the passage: but here they crouded in such numbers that they could not make use of their weapons, and the slaughter was so great, as to supply a sufficient number of bodies to fill up the ca, nails for the passage of the Spaniards: at least, this circumstance is related by some writers, though there are some who alledge, with more probability, that the enemy had left a beam in the second bridge, on which the soldiers passed over in files, leading their horses through the water by the bridles; and that the van guard pursued its march, without being much retarded by the last canal, which was fordable cortes, having reached the there, ordered Juan de Xaramillo to form the men as fall as they arrived, while he, returning to the causey with Gonzalo de andover, Chrifloval de Olid, Alonfo Davila, Fran disco de Morea, and Gonzalo Dominguez, en.ered,-F 2 the
the engagement, and animated the men by his pre. fence and example. He lined each side of thecaufey with soldiers to repel the enemy, while the rest should file off in the centre; and commanded the-artillery to be thrown into the water, in order to facilitate the march; but in spite of all his valour and vigilance, part of his rear-guard was cut in pieces, the pontoon being destroyed by the Mexicans in the canoes, before there unhappy men could pas, though they chiefly consisted ofthofe miserable wretches who had loaded themselves with the booty-and were incapable of king like men for their own preservation. Their cries and groans, however, pierced to the soul of Cortes, who could not possible yield them the leaps assistance; and, while he retreated with his men, in the utmost anxiety of mind, through the second division of the causey, he w-as joined by Pedro de Alvarado, who owed his Ife to an almost incredible effort of agility. Find. ins himself beset on every side, his horse killed under hil-m, and one of the canals in his way, he pitched his IZear in the breach, and raising his body with a wonderful spring, leaped from one side to the other, the distance being so enormous, that he himfelfaf- towards, when he surveyed the place, was con founded at the reflection of his success; and that particular opening is still known by the narmeof Alv. ado's Leap.,About day-break the army had passed overtake lake, and halted near Tacuba, that those who had escaped from the battle and were missing might have time to join their friends; and accordingly thispre- vaurien saved the lives of several Spaniards and Flash calais. who had swam ashore, and hid themselves in the fields of mais till morning. These brought intelligence, that the last division of the. rear-guard was entirely cut off; and the troops being drawn up, they found their loss amounted to two hundred
died Spaniards, above one thousand Tlafcalans, six and forty horses, and all the Mexican prisoners, who, in the confusion and 'darkness of the night, were treated as enemies by their own countrymen. The Spaniards were extremely dejected to find their number thus diminished, their artillery lost, and themselves, who were extremely fatigued, in dan ger of being assaulted again every moments and what contributed greatly to the increase of their as fiction, was the loss of rome excellent officers, name ]r, Amatory de Lares, Francisco-de Morea, and Francisco de Salcedo, and, above all, Juan Velasquez de Leon, who brought up the rear, and fell. oppressed by multitudes, after having performed the most heroic exploits. He was a man of strip ho your, and great military skill, and repeated by all the soldiers, as the second person of the army cortes sat down upon a stone to rest himself, while his officers there-employed in forming his men, and, notwithstanding all his magnanimity, the for row of his soul manifested itself in a blower of tears; tho' he soon recollected that fortitude which was fu period to all the vicissitudes of fortune, and consoled himself by reflecting, that Donna. Marina and Ge ronimo de Guitar, the principal instruments of the conquest, had escaped safe from the dangers of the battle. bis eyes began to sparkle again with that vivacity, which never failed to animate his troops, He obtained a complete viCtory over despondence, and, with an air of tranquillity and good humour, called for the astrologer, whom he meant .to rally upon the falsehood of his prediction, but he was informed that the prophet was killed in the first as fault of the causey had the Spaniards been attacked upon this occasion before they had recovered their spirits, and re fresher themselves after the fatigue of the battle, in all probability they would have sunk under such exr,F 3 ceffiva
clive toil and incessant opposition. But, they ha time to recruit and repose themselves, in confer quench of an accident, which was in other respect very unfortunate for Cortes. We have already ob served that all the Mexican prisoners were killed by the enemy; and in the morning, when they went to (trip the dead, they found the sons of Motezuma transfixed with their own arrows. They were amaze ed, stupefied, and confounded at this spectacle; all the troops were seized with consternation and dis. may; and the new emperor being made acquainted with the cause of their panic, ordered the bodies of those unhappy princes to be conveyed to the bu dying-place of their ancestors; and the ceremony of their funeral obsequies, in which all the inhabitants were engaged, afforded that seasonable respite to the Spaniards: nevertheless, the fate of those young princes was lamented by Cortes, as one of the great el loses he had sustained; because, in the conquest o& Mexico, he hoped to avail himself of the right which the eldest had to the throne.,In the mean time, he directed his march towards Tlafcala with great caution, suspecting there was some design in the enemy's delay; and they had not proceeded far, when some bands of armed men appeared at a distance, and followed the army, without Approaching to action. These were the inhabitants of Tacuba, Eicapuzalco, and Seneca, whom the Mexicans had Ordered to observe the mo tions of the Spaniards, and retard their march, un til they themselves should have discharged their duty to the fens of Motezuma; and indeed it was not long before the whole multitude of the Mexicans came up, and, joining the others, attacked the army with such impetuosity, that they were obliged to halt, and face about in their own defence. Cor tee, having placed his fire-arms and cross-bows in the front, ordered the horse to advance and chargeable
the Indians, of whom a very great slaughter was made: but the number of the enemy continually encreasing, while they plied their slings and arrows at a distance with good success;, the Spaniards were fatigued with killing: they despaired of re pulsing such an enormous multitude, and their va lour began to slacken; when Cortes observing an edifice, with turrets, on the top of an eminence near the field of battle, resolved to gain that post, and effected his purpose, though not without great difficulty. It was a temple dedicated to the sylvan deities, having a spacious court, encompassed by a wall, which, together with the towers, rendered it tolerably defensible. Here the Spaniards found shelter from the imminent danger to which they had been exposed; and, in consideration of the signal relief it afforded, they afterwards brewed an hermitage on the spot, which is to this day known by the name of Nueftra Senior de los Remedies, our Lady of Relief.,The enemy, after having approached within mus ket-fhot of the walls, at which they discharged a vast number of arrows, and expressed their resent ment in barbarous shouts and scurrilous invectives, retired in the evening towards Mexico: though the Spaniards from the tops of the towers, discovered that they halted in the plain; and, dividing into several bodies, endeavoured to conceal themselves till morning cortes posted his guards and sentinels with the ut most circumspection ; ordered fires to be made, not only to mitigate the coldness of the season, but also to burn the arrows of the Mexicans, which lay in heaps about the place. The people were refreshed with the provisions found in the temple, and what the Indians had saved with the baggage: and the wounded were dressed with such expedients as the place afforded, the horse-cloths serving for lint and,F 4 bandages.
bandages. While he thus talked his industry ant invention for the immediate relief of the poor fol. tiers, he did not neglect revolve in his owr mind the consequences of such an endless oppose. tion, and, calling a council of his officers, pro. posed, that as they could not maintain this post foi want of provisions, or hope to accomplish their re. treat while environed with such multitudes of the enemy, they should take this opportunity of pur. fuiiirg their march in the night, so as to be two or three leagues farther a-head of the Indians at fun. rise, when they would certainly renew their at. tack this proposal was unanimously approved; and some hours of rest being allotted for the refreshment of the people, who, though miserably fatigued, and for the moi part wounded, saw the necessity of tak. ino this measure, they departed from the temple at midnight, leaving the fires burning, in order to de. clive the enemy; and the van-guard, commanded by Diego de Ordaz, provided with trusty guides, proceeded above half a league without the leat in corruption. But, as they entered upon some bro ken and hilly ground, they discovered divers am brocades, formed by the militia of the neighbour. ing towns, who poured down from the tops of eminences, or rushed out from among the bushes, and attacked the flanks without order. These light skirmishes, though they incommoded, could not ob strut the march of the Spaniards, who, after hav ing advanced two leagues, halted before day-break, in another temple which they found upon an emi hence, though not so high or capacious as the pod they had left: but the light of the morning no sooner convinced them. that those whom they had mis. taken for detachments of the Mexican army, were no other than bands ofdafardly peasants, than they renewed their march, and proceeded-two leagues,farther,
farther, to a village advantageous situated, which they found deserted by its inhabitants, and in which they staid' two days, until the wounded were in a condition to travel. They made two succeeding marches through a rocky and barren country, at a distance from the great road, which they had 'pur pofely quitted; suspicious of their guides, destitute of cover in the night, continually persecuted by those flying parties of Indians, and expofed'to the rage of hunger and thirst, which they endeavoured to assuage by the herbs and roots of the fields, till one of the wounded horses dying, afforded relief and entertainment to there who were in the greatest extremity. The last of these marches terminated in a village, where the inhabitants received them with a seeming chearfulness, and provided every thing for their entertainment with an appearance of frankness and hospitality : but this was no other than a stratagem to decoy the Spaniards into care leTs security, that they might fall unprepared into, the snare which was laid for them by the Mexicans.,E4rly in the morning, as the army ascended a mountain, which on the other side declined into the valley of Otumba, Donna Marina took notice, that the Indians who followed them at a distance, shout ing and menacing, frequently exclaimed, 'S Pro-,ceed, tyrants . proceed: you will soon arrive at "the place where you will all perish." .And Cortes judging, from this exclamation, that Tome danger vous ambush awaited them, gave his officers proper. instructions, and took all possible precautions to pre vent a surprize. Accordingly, when they reached the mountain top, they beheld the passage effectually barred up by an immense multitude of arm ed men, who filled the whole extensive valley of Otumba.,These were-the same Indians-they encountred at the fist temple, reinforced by an infinite numbers fr,^n
from Mexico, headed by the principal nobles, who had divided into several bodies, and by different roads marched with such expedition as to get the start of the Spaniards, and join in this spacious plain, where they could attack them without being em. embarrassed for want of room the front of this army, which'was composed of different nations, as appeared by the diversity of their colours and standards, took up the whole breadth of the valley; but the eye could not reach the ex. dimity of the rear. The.captain-general of the empire appeared in the centre, born upon mens shoulders, in a sumptuous litter, that he might the better judge of emergencies, and see his orders punctually executed, and distinguished by the royal standard of Mexico, which was never brought into the field but upon the most critical occasions. it was a net of massy gold, fastened to a pike, crown ed with a plume of variegated feathers; and indeed the motion of their different arms and feathers waving in the wind, formed an appearance at once beautiful and tremendous cortes, having surveyed this dreadful host, turn ed to his soldiers, with his wonted alacrity, and told them, that now their case was such that they must either conquer or die. He would have proceeded in his harangue, but was interrupted by his men, who, while their visages glowed with impatience of resentment, cried out, that he should give the word and lead them forthwith to battle. Far from baulking their ardour, he immediately advanced, having made a previous disposition. The first discharge of the fire-arms and cross-bows did great execution every stroke of lance and sword was dei. five; the horse broke down and trampled underfoot all those bodies which endeavoured to flank or in. close the army; the Tlafcalans threw themselves into the thickest of the battle, with an insatiable,thui
third after Mexican blood, and the Spaniards gain ed some ground in this first effort,. But the enemy fought with great obstinacy. No sooner was one body cut in pieces, than another succeeded, and the battle was continually renewed with supplies of fresh men, so that the Spaniards muff at last have been spent with the incessant exercise of their arms. Cor tes, who fought on horseback, succouring those who were in greatest need of his assistance, and car dying death and terror on the point of his lance, foreseeing that the strength of his men must fail, in such an intermitting action, resolved to make an extraordinary effort in order to win the imperial standard, which he could easily distinguish; rightly supposing, that the Mexicans would disperse upon its being taken.,He therefore commanded Gon2alo de Sandoval, Pedro de Alvarado, Chriftoval de Olid, and Alonzo Davila, to follow and secure his rear, while he with his troop charging that part of the enemy which was leash distant from the centre, trod down whole battalions, and penetrated to the place where the imperial standard was defended by a band of nobles appointed for its guard. Herman, spurring on his horse through the midst of them, closed with the captain-general, whom he dangerously wounded and overthrew from his litter with the si ft stroke of his lance, when Juan de Salamanca, a private gentle man, leaped from his horse, dispatched the dismount ed Mexican, and, seizing the standard, gave it into the hands of Cortes; a piece of service, in consideration of which the emperor allowed him to wear the plume of feathers as a crest, and gratified him with some other more substantial favours the Mexicans no sooner beheld their standard in the power of the Spaniards, than they struck all the rest of their colours, threw down their arms, and fled with the utmost precipitation, seeking for fh 1I-,F 6 ter
ter in the adjacent woods and fields of mais; while the victorious Spaniards, inflamed with resentment) and prompted by motives of conveniency, made a most dreadful slaughter of the fugitives; insomuch that twenty thousand Indians are said to have been killed in the battle. Some Spaniards werehurt, and two or three died afterwards of their wounds at Olaf casa ; and Cortes himself received a violent blow on suis head with a' stone, which battered his head. piece, and made a small fracture in his skull the spoil, which was given to the soldiers, prov ed very considerable; for the Mexicans came adorn. ed with their best jewels, as to an assured triumph, depending upon their number, which amounted to two hundred thousand: and indeed, if we reflet upon the great inequality between the contending a-mies in this particular, we must allow this to have been ene of the greatest victories that ever was ob gained in Americans H A P. XXVII. Cortes acid his traps at lri/ gain the. city of iaf-,cC.c. achcre thes,' ae joyfully received; making a t.: .-. ',i';;scl:' erltr); and i uric games are Jet n t:sr - ?i :r ;of them; bt affairs are damned "i-res,. '"'-i: tain i/l; vzho recovers; and ths lcaJL^ni :e.? 'ce an eb.'7 j/3a from the new tempe. 'r- r Z./-.i: ; a?.-ther elnemf rijfr uIp against Cor * :s - e j;rc of .AicJtenccl. C;R T E S having assembled his troops, which,.x-ere flattered up and down for the sake of p:i.-;ing, pursued his march, not without suspicion (cf i'ir 23ai 2tttc:-ed, as he observed several bo die co men on the tops of the mountains; and at right took profession of rome houses, where, how-sever,
ever, he did not think his people .very secure. Next day, the enemy took their leave of him, with dis, tant cries and menaces: and, foon'after, they entered the confines of Tlafcala, when the whole army ex pressed their joy by acclamations, and the Tlafca; lans prostrated themselves on the ground, which they. kissed with filial rapture here, while-they rested and refreshed themselves by a fountain of delicious water, the general, in a short speech, represented to them, of what import tance it was to preserve the friendship of the Tlafca. lans; and exhorted them to behave in the city with kindness and civility to the inhabitants; avoiding all occasions of giving offence to the mean eft citizen, as an error which might endanger their common. safety. At noon he quartered his troops in Qualis par, a considerable town, the inhabitants of which received him with great hospitality ::- and from hence he sent two Tlaicalans to the senate, with an ac count of his retreat and success;. but fame had al ready made them acquainted with his victory; and the messengers were scarce dismissed, when he was visited by his friend Magifcatzin:, old Xicotencal with his son, and others sent by the senate, to com aliment him upon his return. Magifcatzin advanced before the rest, flew into his arms, and then. stepped back to behold and admire a man so worthy of his veneration and esteem. The blind Xicoten- cal, directed by the sound of Herman's voice, groped his way to his embrace, and expressed his assertion in a flood of tears. They congratulated him upon his viaory, testified the moi: tender concern for his wounds, regretted the loss of so many Spas niards, particularly the death of Juan Velasquez de Leon, whom they sincerely loved ; inveighed against the barbarous conspiracy of the Mexicans; and of served to assist him, in his revenge, with all the forces of the republic and her allies. Cortes made suitable acknow-
acknowledgments for all this courtesy, and iva fully convinced of the continuance of their esteem which was greatly improved by the victory o Otumba, an action admired at Tlafcala, as a pro dig of valour, and the chief glory of the expect tion. They proposed that he should immediately] proceed to the city, where quarters were provide for his men ; but he chose to remain in his prefer situation, until his people shoved be refreshed and recovered from the fatigues they had undergone; and the chiefs of the Tiafcalans assented the more readily, as they should have time to prepare for his entry, which they determined to celebrate as a so. lean triumph the Spaniards, having staid three days at Quali. par, during which they were liberally supplied with necessaries at the expence of the republic, adorned themselves with the plumes, jewels, and finery of the vanquished Mexicans, and began their march for Tlafcala, which they entered in the month of July, 1520. The senate, in their richest robes, came out to receive them, with a numerous attendance; the fields were crowded with people, the air was field with acclamations; and, at their entrance, they were saluted with the sound of kettle-drums, flutes and horns, which composed a concert rather sprightly than harmonious. The troops being conveniently quartered, Cortes yielded to the importunities of Magifcatzin, who pressed him to be his guest; and Pedro de Alvarado went with Xicotencal, ra ther than give offence by a refusal ; but the other captains, though strongly sollicited by the rest of the caciques and ministers of state, declined their invitations because it would have been improper to leave the main-guard without a sufficient number of officers the festival of triumph continued for some days, during which the Indians celebrated the vi&ory,,with
with all sorts of diversion known and praised in that part of the world: they contended in shooting with arrows at marks, in running, wrestling, and leaping; and in the evenings was exhibited a variety of rope-dancing, with a kind of masquerade. In a word, all the citizens, from the highest to the lowest, vilified at thefeihews with demonstrations of delight; not even excepting those who had lost their friends and relations at the causey, a misfortune which they attributed to the chance of war, and thought sufficiently repaired by the glory of their fate, and the subsequent victory which their countrymen had help ed to obtain. Cortes was deeply affeaed'with the love and sincerity of these faithful allies, which he cultivated with real confidence and respect: his of fibers behaved towards them with the utmost cour defy, and even the meanest soldiers generously shared with them the jewels and spoils they had brought from the battle but, the joy of this festival was suddenly damp ed, by a dangerous fever that seized Cortes: the wound in his head broke out afresh, with bad symptoms; an inflammation of his brain ensued and his friends began to despair of his life. The mirth of Tlafcala was all at once converted into mourning. The nobles, overwhelmed with for row, inquired incessantly about the fate of his health; and the common people came in troops, howling, and lamenting the danger that threatened the great Seule, which was an appellation they bellowed upon their demi-gods. The senate as sembled the mos expert physicians of the country, who, being permitted to exercise their skill upon the general, applied their medicinal herbs with such wonderful art and discernment, as in a little time restored him to his perfect health. Impatient to know the fate of affairs at Vera Cruz, he wrote to Rodrigo Ranges by an Indian courier, who re-turned
turned immediately with an answer, importing, thai no alteration had happened in the garrison or on the coast; that Narvaez and Salvatierra were in fate custody; and the confederate Indians still faithful to their engagements. At the same time, he gave him to understand, that a corporal and eight fol tiers, who had gone to Tiafcala for the gold be longing to the garrison, were not returned, but, ac cording to a report current among the Indians, were murdered in the province of Tepeaca ; and he was afraid the wounded soldiers of Narvaez had met with the same fate ; for, as fast as they recovered they marched away from Zempoallo ir small bodies, impatient to reach Mexico, which they considered as the centre of all their wealth and prosperity. 'the truth of this report was confirmed by the Tlafcalans, who had hitherto concealed it from Cortes, left it should retard his recovery; and he had the mortification to find himself deprived, in this cruel perfidious manner, of a reinforcement of about fifty Spaniards, who had been destroyed by the Indians of Tepeaca. Glowing with resentment and concern, he resolved to take immediate vengeance on that faithless nation, which lay between him and Vera Cruz; and the Tlafcalans, upon whose frontiers those Indians had committed hostilities promised to interest themselves in his quarrel, Before they could take the field for this purpose, am baffadc rs from the new emperor of. Mexico arrived at Gualipar, from whence they sent a message to the senate, desiring leave to enter the city with proposals of peace; and this permission being granted, with the consent of Cortes, they made their publicity with great solemnity and splendor. The tame nes came at the head of the procession, with the presents consisting of gold and silver, fine cotton cloths, plumes, and other curiosities, with several,loads
loads of salt, which was in great request at Tlafcala. The ambassadors, richly adorned with jewels, and accompanied with a numerous retinue, were, re civet in the senate-house, where, after having named the emperor of Mexico with the usual ce ceremony of prostration, they made offers of peace and perpetual alliance, on condition they would de clare war against the Spaniards, and assist them ,in extirpating those insolent strangers. -. Here their speech was interrupted by the murmurs of the as feebly, who were exasperated at the proposal; and the character of ambassadors, which they bore, twould scarce have proceed them from violence, had not some old senators interposed in their behalf, and restrained the impetuosity of the rest. In con sequence of this mediation, the Mexicans were permitted to retire to their lodgings, until the fe nate should deliberate upon the subject of their em taffy; and it was unanimously agreed to reject their terms with disdain : however, the ambassadors did not wait for a formal dismission; hut, from the re caption they had already experienced, dreading some popular insurrection against their persons, they made off with great terror and precipitation yet, even amidst the Tlafcalans:, was found'one man of consequence who endeavoured to destroy that harmony which subsisted between the Spa niards and the republic : this was no other than Xi cotencal the general, in whose breaks the remembrance of his being conquered still rankled with unceasing acrimony, producing envy and hatred to Cortes, which he had hitherto but ill disguised un der the mask of friendship and complacency. Tho' he neither spoke nor voted in the senate in behalf of the Mexican proposals, he took this opportunity of sowing jealousies among the people, by means of his friends and adherents, who, in a clandestine manner, magnified the advantages that would re-,fuÂ·lt
full to the republic from an alliance with the Mexi cans, and represented their friendship for the Spa. niards as a dangerous connexion, that would ir the end entail flattery and oppression upon them and their posterity. The senate being apprised of these practices, hld a- consultation, at which the old blind Xicotencal gave his opinion, that his son should be put to death as a tower of sedition; and, had not they respected the grey hairs and unblemifb. ed character of the father, he would have died as an ignominious traitor: but, in consideration of the senior's rank and services, the sentence was mitigated The delinquent was brought before them in chains, upbraided with his perfidious dealing, de privet of his command and honours, and flung down the stairs of the senate-house with disgrace, In a few days after this degradation, he implored the forgiveness and countenance of Cortes, who had not known his crime until the punishment was inflicted, and by his interest was restored to his rank and honours; though his inveteracy afterwards broke out again, and colt him his life.,CHAP.
C H. A P. Xxviii. Cortes appeals his soldiers clamours; then marches,again!i, and beats the Ipeacanr; the emperor of Mexico dies, and Guatimozin is chosen in his room ; another Mexican army attacks the Spaniards, and is totally routed; two ships arrive upon the coast with recruits from 'velasquez; ilhy all join Cortes, uhb builds fine po; table brigantines.,H I L E this Indian general assembled the troops of the republic with extraordinary diligence, by which he endeavoured to atone for his indiscretion; the soldiers who had come with Narvaez, being tired of the fatigues and perils they had undergone, and intimidated at the prospect of a new war, loudly clamoured against the expedition to Tepeaca, and even delivered a protestation in form to the general, signifying their refusal to un undertake that enterprize, and a demand that they should march immediately for Vera Cruz, where they might be nearer at hand to sollicit reinforce ments from St. Domingo and Jamaica. This in solent remonstrance filled the breast of Cortes with indignation, which however he was obliged to disguise he represented to them, that as the Tepea- cans had seized the passes of the mountains, it would be impossible to reach Vera Cruz without fighting those people; and that they could not force their way, and open a free communication with their allies, unless assisted by the Tlafcalan troops now assembling for that purpose: but, he assured them upon his word and honour, that as soon as those perfidious Indians should be subdued, all those who were unwilling to follow his fortune should have free liberty to depart., having
Having thus reconciled them to the service, he drew up his army, amounting to four hundred and twenty Spaniards, with seventeen horse, armed with pikes, swords, and targets, cross-bows and fire-arms, and there being reinforced with eight thousand choice Tlafcalans, commanded by officers of approved valour, he left the care of bringing. up the rest to Xicotencal, and began his march amid the acclamations of the people. Having marched three leagues, they took up their quarters for the night in a village belonging to the enemy, who abandoned it with precipitation at sight of the army; and next morning, Cortes ordering tome pea wants who had been taken by the advanced guard to be brought before him, gave them some presents, and set them at liberty, on their promise, to tell the caciques of Tepeaca, in his name, that he was come to punish their revolt, and revenge the death of those 'Spaniards whom they had so treacherously murdered: nevertheless, if they would join him and his allies the Tlafcalans against the Mexicans,, he would pardon what was past, and take them. into the number of his friends. The Indians de. parted with this mesSage, and next day returned with an answer, rejecting all terms of peace, and threaten ing to come and carry the Spaniards bound to the altars of their gods. Notwithstanding this insolent declaration, Cortes repeated his offers, which he sent in writing, accompanied with threats, import ing, that, in case of their refusal, he would destroy them with fire and sword as traitors to the king and all the survivors should be sold as slaves. They laughed at the paper which he had sent as some' thing mysterious to excite their aftonifhmentand fear, sent back a more insolent reply than the for' mer, and immediately took the field in order modis pute his march. They formed an ambuscades some fields of mais, which might have turned tother
their advantage had they used mor;. precaution; but their own impatience discovered them at a distance, so that Cortes had time and opportunity to frustrate their design. Having made a proper disposition he marched on as if he had not perceived then, and wheeling about all of a sudden, attacked them with great fury, and made a prodigious slaughter the battle soon became general; and, notwithstanding the obstinacy and despair with which the Tepeacans sought, they were soon put in confusion; and, being abandoned by their Mexican allies, were totally routed, with the loss of almost their whole army; so that they sent deputies that same night, to implore the clemency of the visitor, and surrender themselves and their city to the discretion of Cortes, who obtained this victory without the loss of one man. - Next day he marched into the city, and all'the inhabitants prostrated themselves before him with marks of extreme fear and despondence; but, when he ordered his interpreters to proclaim king Charles, and a general pardon in the name of that prince, their apprehension was inftantly'con- versed into excessive joy, which broke out in the most extravagant raptures ; and they entreated. Cor .tes to take their city into his protection, ,that they. might never again be influenced by the Mexicans, who had instigated them to renounce their first .treaty with the Spaniards, in such a perfidious and cruel manner. The general, taking advantage of this request, fortified the city with a trench and pa lifadoes, and built a kind of citadel to keep them in obedience, and secure the passage to Vera Cruz; but, before this work was begun, he sent all the prisoners who had been taken in the battle to Flash cala, where they were publicly sold as slaves, in order to deter the other Indians from revolting: an instance of inhumanity, which we are sorry to find countenanced bathe conqueror of Mexico.,Xicotencal
Xicotencal arriving with the rest of the troops, to the number of five and thirty thousand men, Cortes, in order to keep them in employment, sent different detachments, under the conduct of Spani. arts, to reduce some places in the province of Te. peace, which still declared for the Mexicans, by whom they were supported; and they soon return. ed victorious, after having repulsed the enemy to the other side of the mountains, and enriched them selves with a considerable booty, and a great number of captives, whom they sold as saves, according to the new adopted maxim about this time, Quetlavaca emperor.ofMexico dying, the electors assembled, and conferred the imperial dignity upon Guatimozin, nephew and son in-law to Motezuma, a young prince of great cou rage and sagacity, who gained the affections of his peop!eby the wise dispositions he made in the very beginning of his reign. - He encouraged the soldi. hers with rewards and privileges, exempted the Tub. jess from all tribute while the war should continue, treated his nobles with affability, made presents to the caciques on the frontiers, in order to confirm them in their fidelity, and sent an army of thirty thousand men for their support and encourage ment cortes was informed of there occurrences, by deputies from the cacique of Guacachula, a populous and warlike city, situated on the road to Mexico who came to complain of the tyranny of the Mexicans, and implore the assistance of the Spaniards against their oppressors. Herman, being con. winced of this cacique's sincerity, and sensible of tile necessary there was to expel the enemy from such an important place, that very day formed a body of thirty thousand Tlafcalans, with three hundred Spaniards and thirteen horse, and next morning went it, with the envoys of Guacachula-under the coin,mand
nant of Chriftoval de Olid, who had orders to re pulse the enemy, and take possession of the town. 'I hey marched on very chearfully for six leagues, when, being about the same distance from Guaca- chula, they were told by the peasants, that the em pero of Mexico was on his march with his whole army to give them battle. This report made such an impression upon the soldiers of Narvaez, that they flatly refused to proceed, and it was with great difficulty that Ovid could prevail upon them to perform their duty. Their mutinous clamours were ' scarce appeased, when they saw several bodies of armed men descending from the mountains, and ad dancing towards them with great expedition, so that Chrilloval immediately drew up his men in order of battle; but, he was Coon informed by rome horse, which he had sent out for intelligence, that these Indians were commanded by the cacique of Guaxo- congo and rome of his neighbours, who had come to assist the Spaniards against the Mexicans, by whom their dominions had been ravaged. Their motives, however, were suspected by the Tlafca- lans, who indeed the Spaniards with their doubts, declaring that those people were not to be trussed, as in all probability they were Cent by the Mexicans in order to betray the Spaniards, by falling upon them during the engagement. This notion weigh ed too much with Olid, who forthwith caused the caciques to be seized, and sent in shackles to Cortes, who remained at Tapeaca. This inconsiderate aCtion was productive of no bad consequence; for the Indians, who had really come with friendly intent, kept their post, and resolved to wait patiently for the determination of the general, which they hoped would justice to their sincerity. Nor was their expectation in this particular disappointed Cortes expressed equal displeasure and concern at feeing the caciques in chains; he instant-sly
ly ordered their fetters to be knocked off, received them in the most amicable manner, made an apollo. gy for the rash conduct of his captain, whom measured them he would severely reprimand, embraced their proffered alliance, and having effectually acquired their confidence and esteem, set out with them in person to take the command of the expel. edition, in which he found his presence was absolute. ly necessary. He no sooner arrived at the army, than all symptoms of mutiny disappeared: he re baked Chriftoval de Olid for his inconsiderate be saviour, joined his new allies, and marched directly towards Guacachula, at the farther side of which the enemy were posted. The Mexicans, being in. formed of his motions, advanced with great dispatch between him and the city, and began the battle with a furious onset: the victory, however, was not long in suspense; for the cacique of Guacachula laying hold on this opportunity to manifest his fidelity to Cortes, fell suddenly upon the rear ofthel Mexicans, who in little more than half an hour were entirely defeated. The Spaniards took up their quarters in the city, and the Tlafcalans said without the walls, with the rest of the confederates whose number continually increased, by the arrival of other caciques who had submitted to the king of Spain; insomuch that by this time his army amounted to one hundred and twenty thou sand men. His next care was to reduce Yzucan, which was a town of great natural strength, forti sied with walls and ravelins, defended in front by a river, and garrisoned with ten thousand Mexicans, who had broke down the bridge, in order to dispute the passage. Notwithstanding there discouraging circumstances, Chriftoval de Olid, who command ed the van-guard, threw himself with his troops into the water, and though his horse was killed under him, and himself wounded in the thigh, he gained,the
the opposite shore, and. repulsed the enemy into the city, which they made shew of defending; but the army had scarce passed the river, and received orders for the attack, when at once the cries of the enemy ceased, and their garrison disappeared. Cor res having discovered the Mexicans flying towards the mountains detached some companies of Spaniards and the greatest part of the TJafcalans in pur suit of the fugitives; and, finding the city entirely forsaken by the inhabitants, he sent some of their countrymen whom he had taken prisoners, to the woods and fastnesses, whither they had retired with their families, to offer free pardon and good treat ment to all such as would return to their houses. In consequence of this promise, the town was al moll filled that same day. The general divided the spoil of both actions with his new Indian allies, who were charmed with his generosity; and he and the .Tlafcalans returned in triumph to Tepeaca, where by this time he had completed his fort and' settlement, to which he gave the name of Segura cela Frontera.,About this time a flip arrived at St. Juan de Ulna, with thirteen Spaniih soldiers, two horses, and rome provision and ammunition lent by Diego de Velasquez to Pamphilo de Narvaez, under the command of Pedro de Barba, who was governor of the Savannah when Cortes sailed on the expedition Pedro de Cavalier, who commanded on the coast, having discovered this vessel, went out in a boat to reconnoitre, and saluted the new-comers with great civility; but, suspecting the design of their coming, when Pedro de Barba inquired after Pamphilo de Narvaez, he answered without hesitation that he was in good health and great prosperity for all those countries had submitted to him; and Cortes, with a few followers, was fled to the mountains. Deceived by this intelligence, Pedro VOL. I. G - de
de Barba landed without distrust, and was conduct. ed to Vera Cruz, where finding himself fairly out. witted, he was not very fairy for the success of the stratagem, being in effect a well-wisher and friend to Cortes, m ho, on his arrival at Segura de la From. tera, received: him with great courtesy and affection, gave him the command of a company ofcrofs-bows, and distributed some presents among the soldiers, who willingly inlifted in his service. He then per. used the letter intended for Narvaez, in which Ve. vasquez promised that officer powerful succours, and ordered him to send Cortes under a sufficient guard to Cuba, that he might be conveyed as a criminal to Spain, according to the desire of the bishop of Burgos, who intended to make a public example of him in the most ignominious manner. In eight days after this recruit, a second vessel arrived with a reinforcement of eight soldiers, one mare, and a considerable quantity of arms and ammunition, un der the conduct of Rodrigo Moreton de Libera, who was likewise trepanned by Cavalier, and sent to Segura, where, like the others, he and his men engaged in the enterprize of Cortes.,The general had already resolved upon the con queen of Mexico, which he did not doubt of at. thieving, supported as he was, by such a number of confederate Indians ; and, in order to obviate the difficulty of the lake, which of necessity he was obliged to pass, he bethought himself' of building twelve or thirteen brigantines, which should be able to refit the Indian canoes, and transport his troops to the city; and there he proposed to carry in pieces on the shoulders of the Indian tameness, over the mountains of Tiafcala, to a river in the neighbour hoOj of the lake.,"his angular idea he communicated to Martin Lop z, who approved of'the design, and undertook to e recite it with the utmost facility; and was im-mediately
mediately dispatched to Tlafcala, with all the Spa - niards who underfoot carpenters work, and a sufficient number of Indians to cut wood, and be other wise subservient to his directions in. forwarding the scheme. At the same time he ordered the iron work and, rigging which had been saved out of the' sunken ships, to be brought from Vera Cruz; em played a number. of hands in extracting a kind of pitch and tar from trees that grew. upon the mountains, and sent others, under the direction of Juan de Let a Montana, who belonged to the ar tiller, to the volcano discovered by Diego de Or daz, from whence they brought large quantity of sulphur, which was made into gun-powder for the expedition these previous steps being taken, he left instructions with the new council of Segura, appointed Francisco de Orozco commander of the garrison,: confiding of about twenty Spanish soldiers, with power over the militia of the country, and set out on his return to Tlafcala, which he entered in' mourning for the death of his old friend Magis catzin-who had been converted to. Christianity in his last moments: the arms of his officers and fol idlers were covered with the manufacture of the country dyed black, and they marched in profound silence, with demonstrations of grief and concern, which were extremely acceptable to the Tlafcalans, who looked upon the defunct as the father of his country. The place of cacique was, by the re commendation of Cortes, bestowed upon his son, a youth of great courage and extraordinary talents, who soon after .his promotion, was converted to Christianity, and baptized by Bartholome de Oviedo under the name of Don Lorenzo de Magifcat- sin. The example of this convert was followed by another young man, the cacique of Yzucan, who came to Tlalcala to thank Cortes for having deter-,G z mined
mined a suit in his favour; and-even old Xicoten. cal renounced the errors of the Indian fuperflition.,We have already observed, that Francisco de Ga. ray was repulsed from Panuco, while Cortes con. tinged at Zempoalla: notwithstanding this check, he fitted out a more powerful armament, with which he resumed the enterprize, but far from succeeding, his soldiers no sooner landed, than the Indians at tacked them with such fury, that they were fain to betake themselves to their ships in great disorder, and put to sea immediately for their preservation, There they were separated for some days, during which they severally formed the same design, with out knowing the sentiments of each other, and ar rived almost at the same time on the coast of Vera Cruz, in order to serve under Cortes, by whose re potation they were allured. The first ship that ar rived had on board sixty Spanish soldiers, command. ed by captain Cambric: the next brought fifty choice men and seven horses, under the command of Miguel Diaz de Auz, a gallant and experienced officer; and the third vessel, conducted by cap tain Ramirez, contained above forty soldiers, ten horses, and great plenty of arms and provisions HAP.
C H A P. XXIX. New succours arrive at Vera Cruz; a deputationfent,to the Court of Spain requiring more assistance; Herman draws up excellent military rules his ar my, and marches towards Mexico; the Spanish army in danger of being drowned; but escapes, and is every where juccefjfl.,H I S seasonable and unexpected succour could not but be very agreeable to Cortes, whose fame had by this time diffused itself over all the islands subject to the crown of Spain. The new comers took the road to Tlafcala as they landed, in three distinct bodies, and were received with transports of joy by the general and his people, who embraced them as friends of a long acquaintance, without any other tie than that of national regard, and considered their arrival as an interposition of providence in their behalf.,Notwithstanding this favourable acquisition, the soldiers of Narvaez were still importunate with him for leave to return to the island of Cuba, reminding him of the promise he had made before they set out on the expedition to Tepeaca; and he was the bet ter disposed to grant their request, now that he had received a reinforcement of soldiers who would be more obedient to his command. He therefore or tered proclamation to be made, that those who de sired to return should be furnished with vessels and all other necessaries ; and the greatest part of the soldiers who came with Narvaez took this opportunity of retiring: among those the reader will be surprized to find Andres de Duero, who had been formerly so much attached to Cortes, and even owed,G 3 his
his life to the personal prowess of the general. Some misunderstanding had happened between these friends, in consequence of which Duero withdrew, and soon after employed all his interest at court in favour of Diego de Velasquez.,Cortes having committed the charge of conduct. ing and embarking these mutineers to Alvarado, di. patched orders to the confederates, to prepare their troops, arms, and provisions, so as to be able to march on the first notice; and, in the mean time, Resolved to equip a vessel and send new agents to Spain, who might forward the negotiations of Por. tocarrero and Monte, and give him an account of his own interest at court, the uncertainty of which gave him great anxiety. For this purpose, he drew up a memorial to the king, in form of a letter, containing a faithful detail of all the incidents which had happened to him from the time he march ed out of Zempoalla, till his retreat to Tlafcala; together with an account of the extent, wealth and power of the Mexican empire; the strong al lances he had made with the Indian nations, by means of which he hoped to subject that yawl arid fertile country to the dominion of Spain: he de sired speedy juice against the unfair proceedings of Diego de Velasquez, and Francisco de Gray, solicited immediate succours of men, horses, arms, and other warlike provision; and entreated his ma jetty to send over some ecclesiastics of approved vir ue, to assist Father Olmedo in the conversion of the Indians, who seemed perfectly well disposed to embrace the Christian faith the two councils of Vera Cruz and Segura de la Frontier likewise wrote to his majesty, representing the necessity of sending immediate assistance, and maintaining Herman Cortes in his post of cap tain-general, as the beginning of this great work was wholly owing to his valour and conduct and,it
it would be found very difficult, if not impracticable to supply his room with any other man ca able of bringing it to perfection. These dispatches were entrusted to the care of Alonfo de Mendoza, and Diego de Ordaz, who embarked in a few days for Spain, after having received private instructions to conceal their commission until they (hould have found out his father and the two former agents, with whom they should as in concert, as the exigency of affairs might require:; and that their joint sollicitations might have the more weights-they car cried a felon present for the emperor, consisting of good and other curiosities which had been preserved at Tlafcala, and acquired in the two lad expeditions of Tepeaca and Giacachula. At the same time, he dispatched Alonfo Davila and Francisco Alvarez Chico, with letters for the regulars of St. Jerome, who presided in the royal audience of St. Domingo, with jurisdiction over all the islands and new discoveries on the main land; desiring their speedy affiance towards the success of the enter prize in which he was engaged; and the interposition of their authority, in putting a flop to the vexatious proceedings of Velasquez and Gray. He soon received a very favourable answer from there fathers, who approved of his conduce; ard though they were not in a condition to send him the supplies he wanted, promised to support the jus time of his pretensions wth the emperor, and un undertook to check the efforts of his rivals, by the mos peremptory injunctions to defile from their op position though he did not immediately reap the fruits of there precautions, he triumphed in the end over all his adversaries; and, in the mean time, having re civet another providential supply of thirteen Spa nisi soldiers, who came to seek their fortunes, in ,a vessel that arrived at Vera Cruz, with a loading of,G 4 arms,
arms, gun-powder, and provision, he resolved to-begin his march, without waiting until the brian. tines should be finished, because the troops of the republic and other allies were already assembled, and he apprehended some inconveniencies from their ination.,In a council of his captains, it was agreed that their first attempt should be made upon Tezeuco, which being in the road from Tlafcala, and almost upon the borders of the lake, they resolved to for. tiny and maintain it as a place of arms and sure re. treat, where they could be sheltered from the ac cents of war immediately after this resolution, Cortes reviewed his Spaniards, who amounted to five hundred and forty soldiers, with forty horse and nine pieces of artillery, brought on shore from the vessels. This parade was made in the most ostentatious manner, in order to captivate the admiration of the Indians, of whom there was an innumerable concourse as fernbled to see this spectacle; and they were so struck with the finery of the soldiers, the flying colours, their dexterity in managing the horses, handling their arms, and saluting the general, that they filled the air with acclamations of astonishment and applause. Xicotencal, at the head of ten thou fard Tlafcalans, either from an ambition of emu hating the Spaniards, or with a view to compliment Cortes, appeared in his gayest accoutrements, and performed the Indian exercise of war with equal pomp and agility; each captain being adorned with plumes of variegated feathers, jewels hanging at his ears and lips; carrying his macana or two handed sword under the left arm, with the point upwards, and attended by a page, who bore his shield, distinguished by figures expressing his own atchievements in war.,The
The general foreseeing the difficulty of conducting and governing an army composed of so many different nations, formed, at his leisure, a body of articles of war, to be observed by all his soldiers on pain of death. They imported, that no man shout draw his sword against another, either in quarters, or upon the march: that no Spaniard should insult a confederate Indian, either in word or action : that no man should violate or abuse a woman, though belonging to the enemy ; that no soldier should quit the army and go and plunder, without leave asked and given; that they should not play away their horses and arms; and he prohibited swearing, blasphemy at d other irregularities, on pain of infamy and degradation. There ordinances were interpreted to the commanders of the Indian troops, and had a wonderful effect in reforming their discipline; for, after a few examples had been made, they con duped themselves with the utmost care, circum opinion and sobriety.,'hefe prudent regulations being fettled, and every thing provided for the march, the general made a speech to the Spaniards, who were drawn up for the purpose, exhorting them to behave with complacency to those poor Indians, who had so warmly espoused their interest. He explained the importance of the undertaking in which they were embarked, declared his intention to punish delinquents with all the rigour of military discipline, reminded them of the honour they had already ac quire by their actions, represented the harvest of glory that lay before them, and lastly protested that he Would, upon all occasions, reward superior me - rit to the utrnoft of his judgment and ability. After this harangue, which was answered with loud peals of acclamation, he, on the feast of Innocents, ia the year 1520, put himself at the head of the pray confuting of threescore thousand men, and,G 5 bave ng;
having marched six leagues before sun-set, took up his quarters in the town of Tezmeluca, situated on the Mexican confines, and in the jurisdiction of Guazocingo, the cacique of which had provided plenty of provision for the whole army. Next day they proceeded with all necessary caution in the enemy's country; and .understanding the Mexicans were assembled on the other side of a mountain of difficult passage, in the road of Tezeuco, they did not think it was advisable to enter upon such bro ken ground in the evening; but, halted all night in the open fields, making large fires to mitigate the coldness of the weather. Early in the morn. ing, they began to ascend the mountain, which was overgrown with wood, and having proceeded about a league, found the way blocked up with trees laid across, and sharp flakes fixed in the sand, in order to wound the horses: these impediments, however, were soon removed by a detachment of two thou sand Tlafcalans picked for that service'; small par. ties were sent out in quest of ambuscades, and hav ing marched two leagues farther, with all necessary caution, they reached the summit of the mountain, from which they discovered the great lake of Mexico a sight that inflamed the soldiers with eager hope and glowing indignation. Here they saw fires successively kindled in the distant towns, as signals of their approach; and having continued their march through very difficult roads, until they got clear of the woods, they descried at a great distance, the enemy's army, which filled all the plain 3 through which ran a considerable stream of water, collected from the neighbouring hills, and over it they had laid a little wooden bridge, which was left as a decoy to the Spaniards, whom they meant to attack before they could form on the other side. As Cortes advanced, however, their resolution failed them, and they gradually re-tired
tired from the pass, without turning their backs until the Spaniards had partly crossed the. bridge, and twenty horse, with some companies of Flash calais, were detached to keep them inplay; then they betook themselves to the most precipitate flight, seeking shelter among the rocks and mountains, whither Cortes did not think proper to pursue them, because it was of more importance to possess him self of Tezeuco without delay. That evening the troops were quartered in a place within three leagues of that town; and next day, as they pro needed on their march, they descried ten unarmed Indians coming towards them in haste, with a plate of gold, in form of a flag, fattened to the top of a lance, as the final of peace. These were am bafladors from the king of Tezeuco, who besought Cortes to spare his country and people, and admit him into the number of his confederates, and gave him to understand that he had provided good quarters for the Spaniards within the city, and that his allies should be supplied with all necessaries without the walls. When Cortes examined the deputies in private, they told him the reigning em pero of Mexico had threatened their prince with extortions and intolerable oppression, because he hid refused to vote for him at his election; and that, in order to shelter himself and his subjects from his tyranny, he had resolved to sue for the protection of the Spaniards.,This prince was, in all probability, the same Ca cummin who had been dispossessed by. Motezuma, and was now reformed by the new emperor, on ac count of his being a declared enemy of the Spaniards This conjecture seems to be justified by the distrust of Cortes, who forthwith calling a council of his officers, communicated the proposals, toge ther with his doubts, touching the sincerity of the Indian cacique; in consequence of which, it was,G 6 resolved
resolved to proceed with the utmost caution, and, in the mean time, embrace the proffered alliance with seeming alacrity, so as to have free entrance into the town, where they might be upon their guard against his perfidious designs, and aft as oc cation should require. Cortes accordingly dispatched the ambassadors, to let their prince know that he accented the proffered quarters and alliance; and lodged that night in a village adjoining to the town, which being defeated by its inhabitants, the gene rat's suspicion began to increase, especially as neither the cacique, nor any of his people .came out to congratulate him upon his arrival. At sun-rise, he made his dispositions for attacking the town, which, however, were unnecessary ' for he found the gates open, and entering without resistance, advanced through the streets in order, until he arrived at a late square, in which he drew up the greatest part of his men, while the rest took possession of the avenue?. The inhabitants, who appeared in several places in crowds, exhibited the symptoms of anxie- .v and consternation; and as no woman was to be f en, the general no longer doubted their having concerted tome hostile design. In this opinion, ie detached Pedro de Alvarado, Chriftoval de Olid, and Eternal Diaz del Castillo, with some fire-arm, and a sufficient number of Tlafcalans, to take possession of the chief temple, from the top of which, they saw great numbers of the inhabitants flying from the city, tnfme by land to the mountains, and others in canoes to Mexico. When Herman in quire fbr the cacique, he was informed that he had retired to Mexico, with a few followers of little or no account; that the nobility and people in gene rat abhorred his government; and that finding in the return of his ambassadors, how strongly Cortes v.:as supported by Indian allies, he durst not venture to put in execution the scheme he had contrived, of,decoying
decoying the Spaniards into the city, .where being secure, and unsuspecting, they might be destroyed in one night by the Mexicans, whom he had pro missed to admit in the dark for that purpose cortes having thus, without opposition, made himself master of Tezeuco, resolved to conciliate the affections of the people, by prohibiting his fol tiers, under the severest penalties, to plunder or commit the least outrage against the inhabitants; and he quartered the Spaniards, with part of the Tlafcalans, in the palace of the fugitive king, while the rest were lodged in the neighbouring streets, without entering the houses, that they might not incommode the people next morning, rome idol priests came to sollicit good treatment tor their gods, to return thanks for the moderation with which Cortes had hitherto be laved, and to, beg permission for the nobles of the city to come and make a tender of their friendship and obedience. Herman having gladly granted their request, they came in their formalities, headed by a youth of a genteel mien, who told the general he was come with that troop of friends to serve in his army; and hoped they would, by their actions, deserve his protection. Cortes, charmed with the genteel deportment of this young man, embraced him in an affectionate manner, and having received his followers with proper decorum, retired to a more proper apartment, where, by the help of his interpreters, he might question them about such matters as he wanted to know. Here, they gave him to understand that the youth who had first ac costed him, was son to the elder brother of Cacu- main, and consequently true heir to the crown which that usurper possessed, after having murdered the lawful sovereign: and Cortes finding by their discourse, that the said Cacumazin was odious to the people, on account of his tyranny and oppression,
sion, resolved to raise this young prince to the throne: an act of justice, by which he won the hearts of the Tezeucans, and firmly attached to his interests a promising young prince, who was next day crown. ed, in presence of Cortes, with great solemnity, amidst the acclamations of the people ; and, being soon after converted to the Christian religion, took the name of Don Fernando Cortes, in respect to his godfather. In consequence of this revolution, the city was immediately repeopled by the return of those families which had fled to the mountains; the Mexicans were declared enemies, and the Spa niards revered as their best benefactors; and they cheerfully assisted, to the number of six or'feven thousand, in working upon the canals that conveyed the waters of the lake to the city, in order to make them wider and deeper, for the reception of the brigantines.,I. order to facilitate this work, in which the men were frequently disturbed by canoes frown Mexico, and to employ his Indian allies, who were not ea shy restrained from licence while they continued ia aiAve, Cortes resolved to advance with part of his forces to the city of Iztapalapa, which was situated six leagues nearer Mexico, within the lake, the water of which was brought into the town by trenches, provided with sluices to be opened or shut occasionally. He accordingly set out on this expedition with three hundred Spaniards and ten thou sand Tlafcalans, leaving the military government of Tezeuco to Gonzalo de Sandoval; and when they came in sight of Iztapalapa, they were opposed 'by a body of eight thousand Indians, who having sought for some time, retired into the city, and throwing themselves into the lake with great precipitation suddenly disappeared. Cortes finding the gates left open, entered the city, the higher part cf which was utterly abandoned, and there he took,up
up his quarters for the night, the day being already too far spent for any.furtber attempt; but, july at the close of the evening, they perceived the canals overflowing, and the water rushing upon them from the sluices, with such impetuosity that they were obliged to quit the place with the utmost dispatch, otherwise, the whole army would have perished. Cortes, extremely mortified to find himself thus over-reached, spent the night on a little rising ground, where the troops suffered very much from the wetness of their cloaths and the cold weather, against which they had no defence; and at day break he retreated towards Tezeuco, at a quick pace, that the men might be warmed with exercise; he had not proceeded far, when he saw himself pur sued by an innumerable multitude of the enemy, so that he was obliged to face about, in order to sustain their attack, which as usual was very violent but, they were soon repulsed with confider able loss, and the army resumed their march. Not withstanding the first check, the Mexicans rally ing, returned to the charge in two subsequent at tacks, by which they lost above six thousand men; until Cortes approaching Tezeuco, they quitted the field, leaving the victory to the Spaniards, who lost not one man, though several soldiers were wound ed, and one horse covered with arrows, just lived to bring off his mailer.,While the general continued at Tezeuco, he was frequently visited by the neighbouring caciques and other Indians, who came to make submission, and offer their alliance against the emperor of Mexico by whom they were oppressed. Among others, came deputies in great haste from the provinces of Chaico and Otumba, solliciting affiance against a powerful army of Mexicans, who were already upon their frontiers, and threatened to destroy,them
them for having made an alliance with the Spani, ards.,Cortes, in order to protect his allies, and pre. vent the enemy from taking possession of a post, by which they might cut off his communication with Tlafcala, immediately dispatched Gonzalo de San oval and Francisco de Lugo, with two hundred Spaniards, fifteen horse, and a sufficient body of Tiafcalans, to frustrate the designs of the Mexi. cans ; they were attacked in their march by a body of the enemy which lay in ambuscade, and was easily routed ; but, they assembled a very formi table army in another part of the road to Chalco and Otumba, where they resolved to give-the Spa niards battle. Sandoval and Lugo, apprized of their 'design, advanced in order, and the Mexicans rush. ing upon them with fury and disorder, met with such a warm reception from the fire-arms and cross bows, as checked their career; then the horse ad dancing, made room for the infantry and Tlafca!ans to enter and break this confused multitude, which being, at the same time, attacked in the rear by the troops of Chalco and Otumba, was entirely defeated with terrible slaughter. Eight of the most considerable persons in the Mexican army were taken prisoners End reserved for intelligence; and the vic various army passed the night in the city of Chalco, where they were entertained with great hospitality. The old enmity between the Tlafcalans and the Chatquefe was now forgotten, and the Spanish cap pains taking this favourable opportunity, mediated a treaty of peace between the two nations, which was afterwards confirmed by Cortes and the senate of Tlafca!a.,The expedition being thus happily terminated, Sandoval and Lugo returned to Tezeuco, where Cortes honoured them with particular marks of ap probation then ordering the eight Mexican prisoner's
somers to be brought before him-he received them, in the midst of his captains, with an air of severity, and they approached with symptoms of extreme terror and confusion, to sussex that punishment which they thought inevitable. He gave them to understand by his interpreters, that although it was in his power to retort upon them the barbarous cruelties they had exercised on his people, he would convince them that the Spaniards were as much their superiors in generosity as in valour; that he would give them both life and liberty, provided they would promise, upon the honour. of their no ability, to tell their prince in his name, that he was coming to demand satisfaction, for their perfidious attack upon him, in his retreat to Mexico, con tray to the treaty which they themselves had pro posed and confirmed; but, chiefly to revenge the death of Motezuma, whom they had most treacherously murthered; that his army being now aug melted, not only by a number of invincible Spa niards, but also by all the nations that abhor the Mexican name, he would in a little time seek the emperor in the midst of his court, lay all his town in ashes, and drown the very remembrance of him in Mexican blood; unless he should deprecate his indignation, and sue for peace, which would be granted upon reasonable conditions: for, the arms of the king, like the lightning of heaven, hurt only where they find resistance, and were more in influenced by the dictates of humanity, than by the incitements of revenge having thus signified his sentiments, he ordered the prisoners to be unchained, and provided with a boat for their conveyance to Mexico by water; while they, scarce crediting the evidence of their own senses, threw themselves at his feet, and pro misc not only to make the emperor acquainted with his overtures, but also to contribute all in their,power
power and interest in facilitating the peace. But, they never returned with any answer; nor indeed did the general believe this piece of condescension would have any other effect but that of purifying the war he had undertaken, and raising the repu. nation of his clemency among the barbarians about this time, Martin Lopez sent him word, that the work of the brigantines being finished, he would quickly set forward with them; as the re; public of Tlafcala had provided ten thousand tame ,ses or porters, and two thousand to relieve those who should be tired, exclusive of such as were ap. pointed to carry the provisions and ammunition, and' twenty thousand soldiers who waited this op. opportunity to join the army ; but, that he would slay in the last town of the Tlafcalans for a convoy of Spaniards, because he did not think it advisable to pass through the Mexican territories, without any other force or protection than that of the Indiana. lies. These tidings diffused a general joy through the army, and Cortes immediately ordered Gonza. lo de Sandoval to march with two hundred Spaniards fifteen horse, and some companies of Tlafca- lans, towards the territories of the republic, where he would join the escorte, and conduct Lopezwith his materials to Tezeuco. This officer halted one day in his route at Zulepeque, a small town which refused to submit, and was the very place where the poor Spaniards were betrayed and murdered in their way from Vera Cruz to Mexico. For these reasons, he had orders to chastise and reduce the in. habitants, who no sooner perceived the detachment, than they abandoned the place and fled to the mountains whither they were pursued by four companies of Tlafcalans, and a few Spaniards. Sandoval entering the town, found there words written with charcoal upon a wall: " In this house, the '' unhappy Juan Jure was taken, with many others,"i his
(" his companions :" and afterwards discovered, in one of the temples, the heads of those Spaniards, dried in the fire to preserve them from corruption this horrible spectacle inspired the beholders with rage, and Sandoval resolved to revenge such execrable cruelty with the utmost rigour, when the companies he had detached in pursuit of the fugitives returned with a great number of men, women, and children, after having killed upon the mountains all those who refused to surrender. These miserable wretches, already half-dead with fear, testified their repentance by tears and piteous out cries, while they prostrated themselves before the Spaniards, whom they quickly moved to compassion Sandoval desired his officers to interceded with him in behalf of the prisoners, that they might set the greater value upon their pardon, which he granted accordingly, and received the submission of the cacique and principal citizens, who, in the fe quel, fulfilled their engagements punctually, either through fear or acknowledgment the miserable remains of the murdered Spaniards being gathered together and decently interred, Gonzalo continued his march to the frontiers of Tlafcala, where he was joyfully received by Mar tin Lopez, and a young officer called'Chichemecal, who commanded the Tlafcalan reinforcement, and could hardly be prevailed upon to wait for the Spa nisi detachment, so much was he puffed up with self-confidence, and inflamed with the desire of fig nailing himself against the Mexicans. Sufficient time being allotted for the less and refreshment of the men, Sandoval made the proper dispositions for marching back to Tezeuco, and Chichemecal find ing himself stationed in the rear, took such umbrage at the supposed affront, that he could hard ly be appeared, or persuaded to proceed, until Gon Halo condescended to march along with him, though,not
not a little irritated by his arrogance and self-con. cent. The vanguard was composed of part of the Spaniards and Tlafcalans, who had come from Tezeuco; the Tameness marching in rank and file with their burthens, and properly secured on the flanks, contributed the main body; and the rear was brought up by the new reinforcement. In this order they proceeded through the Mexican territory. ries, unmolested by the enemy, who frequently ap. feared in different-bodies on the hills at a defiance; and when they approached Tezeuco, they were met by Cortes and the king of that city, who came forth to receive them with equal joy and solemnity, They made their entrance altogether, amidst the acclamations of the people and the whole army; and the planks, iron-work, and other materials, were foret separately in a great work-house pre. pared for that purpose near the canals. The gene. rat being told by Martin Lopez that the vessels could not be finished in less than twenty days, re. solved to employ that time in reconnoitring the country about the lake, securing proper posts, so as to prevent the enemy from receiving succours, and doing them other damage, as opportunity should offer. While he was busy in making preparations for this excursion, Chichemecal desired an audience, in which he complained of having lain inactive for the space of five whole days, and desired he might be immediately employed in tome service that would exercise his courage and capacity. The general, who was an enemy to presumption and self-con. cent, and had been informed of this young man's troublesome impetuosity on the march from Flash cala, told him with an air of raillery, that he should very soon have an opportunity of assuaging hi, he roi ardour in an expedition of some importance; and that he himself would accompany him, and be an eye-witness of his exploits. Leaving the go-government
government of Tezeuco, and the care of forwarding the brigantines to Sandoval, who seems to have en toyed the chief share of his confidence, he, with Pedro de Alvarado, and Chriltoval de Olid, put himself at the head of a detachments consisting of two hundred and fifty Spaniards with twenty horse, a numerous body of the nobles of Tezeuco, the fifteen thousand Tlafcalans who had arrived with Chichemecal, and about five thousand of those commanded by Xicotencal. With these, Cortes be gan his march towards Yaltocan, a town five leagues from Tezeuco, situated upon one of the' little lakes which discharge themselves into the great lake of Mexico ; resolving to reduce the place, and chastise the inhabitants, who had returned an info lent answer, and even wounded the messengers whom he had lately sent to proffer peace, and re quire their obedience At a small distance from the town, he found the Mexicans drawn up in or der of battle; but, after the first discharge of the fire-arms and cross-bows, the horse fell in among them with such fury, that they were immediately put in disorder, and wholly defeated with great slaughter; yet the greatest part of them fled to the mountains, some threw themselves into the lake, others retreated to Yaltocan, and a number being taken prisoners, were sent in fetters to Tezeuco.,The assault upon the town being deferred till next day, the army passed the night in some houses near the field of battle, and early in the morning, they found the enterprize much more difficult than they had imagined ; for, the town was situated in the lake, and wholly surrounded with water, and the bridge or causeway of communication broke down; so that Cortes would have found it impracticable to carry the place, had not one of the Indians of Tezeuco informed him, that a little higher up the lake was fordable. He forthwith ordered two com-spaniel
panes of Spaniards, supported by a sufficient num. ber of the allies, to pass over,, and they performed this dangerous service in the face of theenemy, who defended the passage with great resolution, an noting the Spaniards with slings and arrows, and. obliging every man to fight while the water was up to his middle: hut when the Mexicans were re pulsed-from the shore,, and saw the assailants draw. ing up in plain that skirted the town,. they-retired with such precipitation to their canoes, that.the place was left unguarded, and the Spaniards entered without opposition. The pillage, which was per mitted as punishment upon the inhabitants, did not last long, because nothing was left in. the houses but what could not be carried off: some loads, however, of corn and salt were transported to the army, together with a good quantity of cotton cloths, and some jewels which the owners had neglected to secrete. The officers having set fire to the principal temples, in order to strike terror into the fugitives, and be an example and warn ing to the neighbouring towns, repassed the water by the same ford, and the army continuing its march, rested that night near Colbatitlan, which next day was found without inhabitants; as were also Tenayuca, and Efcapuzalco, towns situated upon the lake, in each of which places Cortes lodged one night, in order to make proper observations and afterwards quitted them; without sus fering any damage to be done to the buildings, that the Indians might see he never used rigour but when he met with resistance. From this last town, the general advanced towards Tacuba, which was pot of great importance, as being, of all the towns u;-on the lake, the nearest to Mexico, and equal to Tezeuco in extent and number of inhabitants: not that he had any hopes of reducing it at present, but his design was to reconnoitre., that from the,remarks
remarks he should make, he might forma more sea bible scheme for attacking It in the sequel. When he approached the town, he perceived a vast multitude of the enemy drawn up in their order of battle, and in a. moment, they poured upon him. with their usual impetuosity; but, after several in effectual efforts, they turned, their backs and were pursued with great daughter. The. Spaniards re gained all night in the field of battle, and next. morning, were again assaulted by the enemy ; who being easily routed, and flying into-the town, tome of the Spaniards and allies entered with them pell mell, and maintained the sight within the city, un til night approaching, the general called. them off, after having ordered them to set fire to the houses,. that the enemy being employed, they might retreat without opposition. During five days that he slay ed in this place, he was frequently attacked by the Indians, who were alvwys repulsed to the city with great ifs; so that he began to entertain hopes of carrying the town, after the garrison should be waft ed by these diurnal rallies. At length, he observed a considerable body of Mexicans advancing on the causeway, and having allowed part of them to pass and draw up on the main land, he charged them with such fury, that after a faint resistance, they fled towards the causey, and he following with too much precipitation, fell into the snare they had laid: for, his troops were no sooner hampered on this narrow pavement, than the Mexicans faced about to keep them in play, while innumerable canoes sallied out of Mexico, and inveRted both sides of the causey; so that the Spaniards were at once at tacked in front, flank, and rear, and many of the assailants, armed with long spears, pointed with the swords belonging to the unfortunate soldiers who had been killed and taken in the retreat. Cortes, in this exert', cy, formed a front every way, and,made
made great havock among the Mexicans, and al length brought off his troops with little loss, though a good number of them were wounded, and a pail of colours in imminent danger: for, in the heat o the engagement, ensign Juan Volante, being push. ed into the lake, was seized by the Indians, who put him into a canoe, intending to present him alive to-the emperor: but when he found himself at a distance from the rest of these boats, he recovered his arms, flew those by whom he was guarded, and throwing himself into the lake, swam ashore witt his colours. Cortes seeing the difficulty of reducing Tacuba, now strengthened by such a reinforcement of Mexicans, desisted from the enterprize, and re. treated to Tezeuco, where he was visited by tht caciques of Yucatan, Mafcalzingo, Autlan, ant other towns upon the north side of the lake, wh( came to make their submission, and offer their al hance. But what pleased him above all these of sers, was a supply which he received in a vessel thai arrived at Vera Cruz, from St. Domingo, contain. ing a considerable quantity of arms, ammunition and other necessaries, with Julian de Alderete, ir the character of king's treasurer, and several Spanifl soldiers of distinction, who immediately marches to Tlafcala, where they were provided with an es comte that conduced them to Tezeuco.,CHAI
C H A P. XXX. !'5e several towns about the lake cf, and leading to, lUxrco, are by turns Jlubed Cortes is tien pris iSrr lby the Mei-ans, but fJt at liberty Iy Cbrif- ali' de Olea ; a plot against the general's life con rested by some Spaniards, is seasonably discovered b) ene of the abettors of it; the principal conspirator is hanged; one of the Indian chiefs deserts, and is killed in his flight. A BOUT this time, messengers arrived in A great haste from the caciques of Chalco and l'humanaico, to demand succour against a pow e:fd! army of Mexicans, which was assembled to ch;!ati.l all the towns that adhered to the Spaniards and Sandoval being detached to their rc- lacs with three hundred Spaniards, twenty horse, aids some companies of Tlafcalans, was joined by their own troops, which amounted to a very con ii!ercabie body. The Mexicans had fortified them Â£L'es in some hollow ways, from whence they were driven sword in hand; and in a little time after their rerc.t, another body ,o fifteen thousand ad \ancn:. iu g,.od order, with their curtis beating, asia fie ls blowing, met with filch a warm recept on :om the fire arms and horse, that they were f:,n rut.d and fled in great confusion to the town o( Gunflepeque, which they looked upon as a place or :curtsy. Nevertheless, the Spaniards entered,t'i;h them phil-mell, and dividing themselves into ti ev,:.al iircets, drove out the enemy with terrible '.:!: lter.,.: trial, place, which was very spacious, Santos '*'- rl:jied to pa's the night, and the victory '".s them snore agreeable to his soldiers, as they,H\ e . I1 were
were allowed to plunder: it was not long before the-cacique and principal inhabitants came to make Their submission, and .laid the whole blame upon the Mexicans, who had compelled them to make resistance: Gonzalo, convinced of their sincerity, took them into his protection; and next day, when he was going to set out on his return, he re civet information from the people of Chalco, that the Mexicans who had escaped from the lash two engagements, were assembled at Capitan, two leagues from Guaflepeque, on the side of Mexico, Sandoval thinking it necessary to disperse this body of fugitives before they could be reinforced, marched immediately to the place, which being situated on the top of an high rock, was very firing by nature, and extremely difficult of access. The Mexicans covered the whole eminence, and trifling to its situation, provoked the Spaniards with loud outcries and reproaches; and indeed it was judged such a dit.cult enterprize, that when Sandoval ordered the troops of Tlafcala and Chalco to advance, as being accustomed to those rugged passes, they did not obey with that alacrity which they had expressed on other occasions, until Gonzalo perceiving their backwardness, put himself at the head of the Spaniards, and began to mount the hill. His example animated the Indian allies to such a degree, that they clambered up the rock with surprizing intrepidity, notwithstanding the sones which were rolled down, and the darts and arrows discharged by the Mexicans, who, seeing at length, how little their situation and efforts availed them, retired with marks of despondence into the town, which, however, they did not attempt to defend. In a word, they were driven to the edge of the precipice, and all who did not fling themselves down were put to the sword, with such dreadful slaughter, that fireams,of
of blood flowed into the river that ran at the bot tom of the rock, and wholly changed the colour of its waters and oval, whose armour was shattered in several pieces during the assault, having in these three victories destroyed the Mexican army to a man, began his retreat next day to Tezeuco; and his back was no sooner turned, than the emperor of Mexico sent a new army into the province of Chalco, to cut off the communication between the Spaniards and Tlafcala. The Chalquefes being now left to themselves, assembled a body of their own troops, and engaging the enemy, obtained a complete viaory, after a very desperate action, in which great numbers were killed on both fides.,As the brigantines were not yet finished, Cortes resolved to penetrate in person as far as Suchimilco, a town of great importance upon the lake, fur wished with a broad causeway, which joined those thatched to Mexico, that he might make observations cover the passage to Tlafcala, and animate the people of Chalco, who were apprehensive of new invasions. He left the military command of Tezeuco wish Sandoval, and the civil with the cacique Don Fernando, who was always submissive and affectionate, and began his march April the 5th, 1521, accompanied by Chriftoval de Olid, Pedro de Alvarado, Andres de Tapia, and Juan de Alternate, with three hundred Spaniards, and a large body of allies. This was a very seasonable relief to the Chalquefcs, who had discovered on the side of Suchimilco, a new army of Mexicans, who threatened to ravage and subdue their whole country. The confederate caciques were assembled in the city of Chalco, in order to deliberate upon measures for their preservation against this for amicable armament, which was much more pow erful than the last; and when Cortes arrived so,H 2 unexpected
and in such a critical conjuncture, they were transported with joy, fell at his feet .with demonstrations of the utmost gratitude, and i;[red up their eyes to heaven, with praise and thanksgiving for this interposition in their favour.,-ernatn being informed by the Indian scouts, that the Mexicans had taken pofleffnl;n of foe sleep, and almost inaccessible mountains, on the way to Suchimi.co, resolved to dislodge them without de lev ; and a considerable reinforcement of the allies having joined his army, he marched that same rich to a town deserted by its inhabitants, in which he passed the night. At day-break, as he entered the mountainous country, by a narrow and cis'cult path between two ridges of rocks, the Mexicans shewed themselves on the tops of the eminences cn both sides; and the army marched fl.:wiy on, filing ocf as the nature of the ground require, until they reached an opening, where the g e ;i ordered the men to be formed, and to at :ira.k considerable fortress situated on the top of a roc., from which the enemy, in great numbers, pro ekd the Spaniards with insulting-language. On this occasion, he rashly gave way to the suggestions of anger, and without slaying to choose tete leaf cicult path, contended Pedro de Bs.rba, and Bernai Diaz de Castillo, with two corn ants cf - u queer. and cross-bows, to begin the a.:ck The enemy retired at first in seeming con fusion, until! the Spaniards had mounted to the most dangerous part of the precipice, then they returned with horrible outcries, and rolled down a dreadful torrent of great stones, and even intire rocks, which bore dawn every thing in their way, The general seeing the impossibility of succeeding the ruin to which his men were exposed, lent orders for them to defier, ard they retreated with the loss of four Spaniards killed upon the spot,,beiides
besides a number of wounded, among whom was Pedro de Barb?; and many others would have shared the same fate, had not Vernal l)iaz de Caf tiilo lodged them under the pros dion of a rock, until the Lower of stones was ovtr.,Cortes, not a little mortified at this disgrace, which was owing to his own imprudence, resolved to search out a liss dangerous path, by which he might ascend the mountain and revenge the loss he had sustained; but, was diverted from his pur pose by a piece of intelligence, importing, that the enemy had laid an ambuscade in a wood near the road, in order to attack the rear of the Spaniards when they should be engaged in the defiles. He forthwith ordered the army to march, laying open his flanks, in order to azure the Mexicans; but, all of a sudden, he turned short upon them, though he could notdo them much damage, because they fled so nimbly, and were favoured by the thickness of the woods; at the same time. those above abandoned their fortification, and followed the Spaniards at a (france, upon the tops of the mountains ; so that Cortes pursued his march, with nut any other opposition, for a league and a half, when lie perceived another fortress of the faire kind, garrisoned with the enemy, which, how ever, he did not think proper to assault; but encamped near a forsaken village on the top of an eminence, where the soldiers suffered greatly from want of water. In the morning, they found orme spring inr the neighbourhood, and the general, in reconnoitring the enemy's poR, which was more in accessible than the former, observed an eminence within musquet-shot, which they had negieled to occupy. 'This was immediately seized by Vertigo, Barba, and Alternate, with the musketeers, w-ho made such a successful fire upon the Mexicans, that, terrified at the unexpected discharge, they,H 3 inIa?.nl!y
instantly retired to a considerable town adjoining to the fortress, from which 'they likewise fled to the more distant parts of the country. They had no sooner abandoned the town and fort, than fe vernal women appeared on the top of the hill, hang ing out white cloths, which they waved up and down in token of peace; and the cacique coming down, assured the general that neither he nor his peeope vere concerned in the hostilities which were committed by the Mexicans, and submitted his town ard sort to the jurisdiction of the Spa. riards, .who too': possession of it in the name of the emperor. This ceremony being performed, the army marched on to Guafiepeque, and before the? reached that populous town, the cacique, .with he principal inhabitants, came forth to meet Cortes, . home he invited to lodge with the Spaniards in his own palace, which might even have vied vi:kh those of Motezuma in magnificence, and was furnished with a spacious and delightful gar den, which the Spaniards beheld with admiration, as one cf the vc nders of that new world they had not, however, much time to enjoy the beauties of this place; for, the general re ceiling intelligence that the enemy had halted at Quatlavaca, in order to dispute his passage, he or tered the army to march for that town, which was firing and populous, situated between two deep barracks or hollow ways, filled with the water that descended from the mountains. The Mexicans had cut down the bridges, and covered the banks with such a number of men, that the passage seemed impracticable; nevertheless, Cortes, having drawn up his army on the other side, from hence they plied the enemy with fire-arms and ar rows, ordered two or three bridges to be made of long trees, which being laid across at a place be Lw, where the barra.nca was narrower, afforded passage
'passage for the infantry. Here, however, as they passed, they were attacked with such fury, and in, such prodigious numbers, that they could hardly keep their ground, and were in the most imminent' danger, when Cortes, Olid, Alvarado, and TaDia- came to their affiance with the horse, which' they had made shift to bring over with great difficulty and danger. These, together with some Spa niards and Tlafcalans, who crossed at a third place,' under the direction of Vernal Diaz del Castillo,. charged the Mexicans in the rear with such valour and impetuosity, that they were immediately disordered routed, and pursued to the mountains. with great slaughter; while the town being alan donec by the inhabitants, was plundered by the soldiers: but the cacique, with the principal citizens calling from the other side of the barranca, and begging with great humility, that they might be allowed to return, and prepare quarters for the Spaniards, Cortes granted their request, and ac accepted their submission early next morning, he took the road of Suchimilco, seated on the edge of a fresh water' lake, communicating with the great-lake, the build kings of which town were partly in the water, and partly on the land. The first day's march was very troublesome through a long defile, and a dry, barren country, where the soldiers suffered greatly from the excessive heat and want of water. At night they quartered in some farm-houses near the road, and, at day-break, Cortes drew up his men in order of battle, and proceeded on his marches rightly supposing he should meet with strong op position in the reduction of such an important post. Accordingly, as he approached the places., he perccviejl the Mexican battalions drawn up in a plain that skirted the town, with a river in their front, the banks of which they had double lined 4 with
with soldiers, to tho hi ter main body was dispose, f.,r the defence nrf a wooden bridge, which the-;:.c hbrric.adoed with 'planks and fascines, hop,n t;- dc roy the $Spaniards in that narrow pals.,T'he general h king extended the troops of the artis ion the river, to keep the enemy in plai,iv.'h their missile weapons, ordered the Spaniards te adc'.-nce and attack the bridge, which they gain. .:, ;.rter having suffered two repulses; and the I .si. n .were so discouraged at the loss of it, thai they tian to fly with great disorder 3 so that thhii c n;.man hers wer e fain to found a retreat. The,ix^-j:s immediately formed on the ground ;which th enemy had quitted, and being joined by some bodies of the allies xho had swam the river-the advanced towards the Mexicans who had l tkd near the town, and charged them with such r, that t:hv retired into the city, at the gates coif .'.ich title' lo', great numbers, in consequences .- precipitation. Cortes leaving -,:: cf isis troops to Secure a retreat, entered pes!. ;--ech e iti.es, and, ord-bring horne coni f; :;:s to scour the nrcets to the right and left, hei *ter .a asked the principal barricade, which vas Defended by the greatest force of the enemy This he with 'one dii cut surmounted, and, ii pelted by the transports of his courage, threw himself into the misc of the multitude, by w hom he was inly i surrounded, and his 'retreat cffeLtu aiy' cut ofr. In this emergency, he performed min races of valour, until his horse falling, he Vias overpower ed, and apprehended before he could m3iske ue of his arms. Nothing saved his life but the great desire e t e .mexicans had to take him 2i: -e, as a present to the:;r emperor ; and before they could carry him ofi, he was restored to his liberty by the valour of Chrifcoval de Olea, a soldier of distinguished prowess, who feeing the distress of his,gnec]!)
general, put himself at the head of some Tlafca- lans who were near him, and forced his way to the spot, where, with his own hand, he slew the Me scans who had seized Cortes. And he having thus regained his liberty, at the expence of two slight wounds, publie the enemy with their rein enforcement so vigorously, that they escaped to the part of the city built in the water, and left the Spaniards mailers of all the forces upon the firm lain. During this engagement in the town, the troops without the gates commanded by Olid, Al varado, and Tapin, were attacked by a reinforce ment of ten thousand chosen men, sent in canoes orion ?mexico, under leaders of approved valour,, who sought for some time with great obstinacy, but were at length obliged to rcimbark v.ith con literally loss; though not before they had wound ed the three captains, besides a good number of Spa nigh and Tlafcalan soldiers cortes, being now maIler of all the streets and: buildings on the firm land, posed sufficient guards. at the water-side, quartered his troops in some great porticoes, and ordered ;ln officer, with twenty or thirty Spaniards, to keep watch on the top of the principal temple, which overlooked the city, coun!,rr, and lake. These, about the close of the evening,; gave notice, that thlv discovered about two tlIctifand armed canoes advancing n with great speed from Mexico ; the guards .at the handing places were immediately doubted, hand in the morn ilng e cncnmv disembarked at a erceat distance from! the ei;u, to (he number cf stern thousand men. Cortes i'rr;nediarclt marched out, and charged: ten-a,";i ih l impetuosity, that they were routed t t1: first attack, ante a great number of them pus to ths .'or i; and having continued at Suchimi;oi four d ovs, for the recovery or his wounded mers, tie red cniet to Tezeuco, in Good order wviti th::,1i 5 .ais e-
satisfaction of having accomplished the purpose of his expedition, which was to reconnoitre this city and break the force and spirit of the enemy, before he (hould undertake the siege of Mexico: yet this satisfaction was in some measure allayed by the re. election of having lost nine or ten Spaniards; for besides these who were killed at the first assault of the mountains, three or four were taken alive, in pillaging one of the houses of Suchimilco, and two servants fell into an ambuscade, by imprudently ft. parting from the army in their retreat the brigantines being now ready, and the canal sufficiently enlarged, great quantities of arms were made for the Indians, an exact account taken of all the stores, the artillery proved, the supplies provision regulated, and a day appointed for the confederate caciques to appear with their troops at the rendezvous: but, in the midst of there preparations a conspiracy was formed against the life of the general, which was the more dangerous, as be. ing hatched among the Spaniards. A soldier, who had been long in the service, came to him one day, and, with marks of fear and concern, desired a private au :hence; which being granted, he gave him a minute detail of the conspiracy which had been formed in his absence. The chief contriver and agent in this treacherous design was one Antonio de Villafana, who being tired of the fatigues and peril - of war, first gave vent to his uneasiness murmurs and complaints against the general, whom he did not scruple to accuse of obstinacy and rAshÂ· r.nes. r:'.idirg his insinuations agreeably received by some of his fellow-soldiers, he expressed a de fire of relinquishing the enterprise and returning to LCua and, as this retreat could not possibly be .tickled \';hcut the consent of Cortes, he, after having scientia, founded his confederates, in parted to their a scheme for assassinating the gene-oral
rat and all his principal officers, except Francisco, Vertigo, who had married a sister of Diego de Velasquez upon him they proposed to confer the chief command, a ife which would give a anthony to their mutiny, and be highly agreeable to the governor of Cuba; and, although they knew Ver dug to be a man of honour attached to Cortes., they concluded he would not venture to refute the command, left greater mischief sould ensue, and: in the mean time they determined to keep him ignorant of their intention. The conspirators used to meet at the lodging of Villafana, where they signed a writing, in which they obliged themselves to follow and support that traitor in the execution, of his horrible scheme; in a word, the affair was managed with such dexterity, that the number of subscribers daily increased; and they agreed to slab: Cortes with his friends at table, on pretence of' go ing in together to hear the news of a pacquetfrom, Vera Cruz, which should be feigned for the pur pose. The general having received this intelligence: from the soldier, who h:d engaged in the confpi racy, went immediately with two alcaldes and tome of his captains to secure Villafana, whom he found;. in his quarters, with three or four of his accomplices His guilt was evident from his confusion at sight of Cortes, who having put him in irons,. and'; ordered every body to retire, on pretence of examining him in private, took out, of his bosom the: paper signed by all the conspirators, in which list he found some names that greatly augmented his concern. However, he concealed his discovery even from his friends, caused the accomplices who. were found in the apartment to be imprisoned apart,. and left intrusions-with the-officers of justice to proceed with all secrecy and dispatch upon the trial of Viliafana, who immediately confessed his crime,. and was seen. next morning hanging at the windiow:,H 6 of.
of his quarters; so that his guilt and punishment! were made public at the same time. But, as isis was no time to satisfy justice with the lives of so many Spaniards, Cortes gave out that Villafana h d fi'-alio.'ed a paper, torn in pieces, which in all prob bi.itv contained the names of the conspire. tors: then assembling his captains and soldiers, he gate them a summary account of the design, pre. te-ded to think himself happy in not knowing Vil. rafael's accomplices, and intreated his friends to in. quire whether or not the Spaniards complained of his proceedings, that he might correct his own saul's, and give them reasonable satisfactions after-.-ids released the soldiers who had been apprehended with the traitor, and behaved to the rest us the conspirators without any change in his countenance or conduct ; fo'that they were fully p.rf-uacie; he was ignorant of their crime, and serv. c. in ;he f: .qel with extraordinary diligence and cir; Lm.-' horn, in order to avert any suspicion osiris dnr. er being so happily surmounted, by the con.':"rm. -e prudence of the general, he was, in a seats o: ,'r, ex.ed with an other affair that gave hi; rn .e fit iiui-b.nce and chagrin. Xicctenca-.-.0' r -' ili r-eaincd the seeds of animosity 2 r.i':: C:!;es: having, in all probability, conceives !bote .;ew dirt, retreated in the night with ij.;n cÂ· nm!raies of Tiaicalans who were attached tn hi.; f rtI.e; and Cote;, being informed of his cd.fe cLn bv' isis own countrymen, sent sone noble I .;a!is of Tezeuco, to iccrfur.de him to return. Bur, his answer to the general being obflinate,,ira, ad con t mucus, three companies of Spa n. bird, r-ir.iorccd wil Tezeucans and Chequered, were Â£:nt in pursuit of this deserter, with orders to take him prisoner, ard kill him in case of re .tine. As he defended himself to the last, it was,:.aÂ»
impracticable to take him alive, and he no sooner fell, than his soldiers, who fought with reluctance, submitted and returned to Tezeuco, leaving their leader hanging on a tree. Nor did his death oc cation the least coldness between Cortes and the re public; for he had made the senate previously ac painted with the insolent and capricious conduct of their general, and been desired, and even urged by that body to treat him with all the rigour of military discipline; even his own father joined in this request, and corresponded with Herman, after his son's death, with all the cordiality of their for mer friendship.,Theie disturbances vivere no sooner composed,. than the general ordered his brigantines to be launched and rigged, and then reviewed his Spa niards, who amounted to nine hundred men, of whom near two hundred used fire-arms and cross bows, the rest were armed with sword, buckler, and lance; besides there he had eighty six horse,. and eighteen pieces of cannon, with plenty of am munition; and twenty men were put on board of each vessel, under the command of a captain, with, six rowers and one piece of artillery.,CHAP.
C H A P. XXXI. Cortes's brigantines are launched upon the lake, wholesome of his people approach the city of Mexico by land; his vests are attacked by four thousand ca does ; the moi of which are destroyed, and the lake entirely cleared cf ths enemy; the general offers peace ta th. emperor, whbmn the priors prevent from accept-,;ng it; the n:-giei cf Cortes's officers in one.particu- lar almost ruts all his defies; Mexico is blocked up and fzie-sji cdr ednrably by famine ,Things being thus disposed, he divided his army into three bodies, that he might at the same time make himself master of the cause ways of Tacuba, Iztapalapa, and Cuyocan, without making any attempt upon Suchimilco, which was too remote. The expedition of Hecuba was com mitted to Pedro de Alvarado, who had under his command an hundred and fifty Spanish foot, and thirty horse, together with thirty thousand Tlafca- !ans, and two pieces of artillery. The attack of Cuvocan vas assigned to Chloral de Olid, with an hundred and sixty Spaniards, two pieces of cannon, and thirty thousand confederate Indians: and the attempt upon Iztapalapa was left to Gon halo de Sandoval, who commanded an hundred and fifty Spaniards, with two pieces of artillery, four and twenty horse, and all the troops of Chalco, Guacocingo, and Cholula, amounting to above for ty thousand men.,Olid and Alvarado marched together as far as Tacuba, which was abandoned by all the inhabitants those who were able to bear arms having re tired to Mexico for the defence of that capital, and the rest fled to the mountains with their most valu.,6 able
able effets. Here the two Spanish captains having: received intelligence, that the Mexicans had form ed a considerable body, within half a league of the city, to cover the aqueducts which came from the mountains of Chapultepeque, they marched thither, and, after a most obstinate action, drove the ene my from their post, and broke the pipes and aqueducts in two or three places; so that the water took its natural course into the lake this exploit being atchieved, Olid marched on with his division to Cuyocan, while Cortes took up on himself the command on the lake, arid embark ed with Don Fernando lord of Tezeuco, and his brother, who was afterwards baptized by the name of Carlos; but this shep the general did not take without having first left a sufficient number of troops to cover his place of arms, and secure the communication of his quarters. The brigantines being drawn up in a line, and adorned with flags and streamers, in order to captivate the admiration of the enemy, Cortes directed them to approach Mexico, that he might shew himself master of the lake; and in his return, perceiving a pretty firing case, situated in a small island, from whence the Mexicans provoked him with abusive language, he resolved to chastise their insolence in sight of the city, the terraces and balconies of which were fill ed with a prodigious concourse of people. Draw ing near the shore of this island, therefore, he landed with an hundred and fifty Spaniards, who taking three different paths, mounted, in spite of a very vigorous opposition, and drove the enemy in to the castle, where being so crouded that they had not room to manage their arms, they were obliged to submit; and Cortes spared the lives of those who surrendered. The Spaniards having remarked and the brigantines directing their course towards Iztapalapa, in order to assist Gonzalo de,Sandoval,
Sandoval, they saw a fleet of canoes assembling on the lake, from Mexico and other neighbouring places; the first that came out advanced' a little, and waited for their fellows, until the number was augmented to four thousand, exhibiting a most beautiful and terrific shew of arms and feathers, which seemed to cover the-lake. Cortes extend ing his front in the form of an half-moon, advan. cet towards the enemy, and then ordered his men to lie upon their oars and rest themselves, that they might engage with the greater force, for the wea. ther was so calm they could not use their sails, The Mexicans, in this particular, followed the ex. ample of the Spaniards; but, a breeze of wind Springing up all of a sudden, and taking the bri gentiles in tern, they began the attack with their artillery-at a distance, and then ran foul of the ca noes with such force as overset all that flood in their way, while the fire-arms and cross-bows made terrible havock, and the smoke blinded the enemy to such a degree that they did not know which way to turn. The nobles of Mexico, who had manned the first five hundred canoes, made some opposition; but most of them being destroyed, the rest was all confusion and disorder; they ran foul of one another, so that the greatest part of them foundered; a vast number of men perished, and the brigantines pursuing the remains with their can non-hot, forced them to take helter in the canals of the city of Mexico After this viaory, Herman sailed about the city, into which he fired some shot by way of triumph, while the affrighted Mexicans deplored their loss with loud lamentations, and con filtered the tftels of the Christians as so many im pregnable floating castles the general Fasted the night nearTezeuco; and' in the morning, when he was on the point of sail ing to Iztapalapa, he discovered a great number of,canoes
canoes making towards Cuyocan; and, though he could not overtake them, he arrived at a very cri tlca' conjuncture, when Chrifloval de Olid was en gaged on the causeway, and so hard presSed on each side by the canoes, that he could hardly keep the ground he had gained. The Mexicans had drawn up the bridges of the causeways towards the city, and fortified them with barricades of planks and timbers, so as to render them almost inaccessible to the Spaniards, who were obliged to demo life and clear those defences by means of their cross bows, fire-arms and artillery, until the ditch could be filled up with fascines, and the ruins of its own fortification. At the sight of the brigantines all the canoes on that side of the causey fled with precipitation i but those on the other side still continuing the engagement, Cortes ordered the ditch in lid's rear to be widened for the passage of three or four brigantines; upon which the ene my retired in disorder to the last rampart next the city. The troops passed the night upon the cause way, without abandoning the ground they had gain ed, and in the morning continued their march with ]i.tle or no opposition, until they approached the last bridge, which was fortified with strong works and trenches cut in the streets, and defended by an enormous multitude of people. The artillery from the brigantines made a miserable slaughter of the Mexicans, who were in crowds at the openings of the streets, while Chriftoval de Olid. having ruined the fortification of the causeway, and filled up the ditch, charged the defendants, who made such ain obstinate refinance, that Cortes, impatient of de lay, landed with thirty Spaniards, and soon corn pellet them to abandon the works, and leave the chief street of Mexico unguarded. The fugitives took possession of a temple in the neighbourhood, covering the towers, flairs, and 'outside in such manner,
manner, that it looked like an hill of arms ard feathers; and from this post they defied the Spa. niards with as much insolence as they could have expressed if thy had been conquerors; but they were soon dislodged by two or three pieces of can. non landed for that purpose;. that whole quarter was forsaken, the idols were burned, and the temple afforded quarters to the troops. Cortes expressed a desire of fortifying himself in this posh, but was dissuaded by his captains, who represented that they would run the risque of losing the passage of the causeway, by which they must receive their ammunition and provision, becauSe the brigzn. tines could not enter the water-trenches of that part; and, should the provision and fares be land. ed at a distance, they could not be conveyed to the quarters without a battle for every supply; and that the plan of the attack, by three divisions, which had already been agreed upon, ought not to be changed, without some very good reason or pro spec off advantage convinced by this remonstrance, he, in the morn ing, retired to Cuyocan, from whence he proceed ed to Iztapalapa, where he found Gonzalo de San: oval reduced to the last extremity. He had possessed himself of the buildings on the land, and made great havock among the enemy, who endeavoured to annoy him from their .canoes: he had ruined tome houses, overthrown two or three rein enforcements from Mexico, and the Indians having abandoned a large building near the land, he re solved to seize it, in order to enlarge his quartets, and drive the enemy to a greater distance This scene he effected by means of fascines; but, he had no sooner entered txith some of his people, than a great number of canoes, which had lain in ambush, advanced, with troops of swimmers, who flung themes ives into the water, took away the fa-scenes,
~~oUI ~ - ~s.4,i ==I 4-,iÂ·K3'
es, and having thus cut off his retreat, besieged on all sides, shooting at his men .from the aces and windows of the neighbouring houses. n this distress he was found by Cortes, who per ing that vast number of canoes in the water ts, ordered his brigantines to advancer and ed his artillery with such good success, that enemy fled in great confusion; those who were n the terraces crowding into the canoes, sunk a at number, and the rest fell in among the brigands in'their flight; so that the forces of the M/exi- s were considerably diminished by this day's on: the city was subdued, many prisoners made, the soldiers obtained a considerable booty. tes, perceiving it would be impracticable to make of this causey, without first ruining that half of palapa which was the retreat of the Mexican does, an expedient which would create some de resolved to quit the post, and detach'Sando- to Tapcaquilla, where there was another cause , the possession of which would more effectually er the Mexicans from being supplied with prom which they already began to want. This g was immediately executed by Gonzalo, who d the place forsaken, and lodged himself in it lout resistance. Then the general stiletto Ta a, to visit Alvarado, who had met with various less. The place was deserted at his approach : progress he had, like Chriftoval deOlid, beater n works, filled up ditches, done the enemy miserable damage, ands at one time, advanced ar as to sei fire to some houses in. Mexico; but,. he course of these expeditions, he had lost eight niards. otter, considering that this method of attack and retreating, served only to consume time, out being attended with any great advantage, lived to change his plan, and put a flop to all:,o.erations,
operations by land, until he should make hornet absolutely matter of the lake, from which his men had been continually persecuted in their advances the causeways. For this purpose, he sent for al! the canoes belonging to the allied towns, which being manned with expert Indians, formed a fleet which was terrible to the enemy there he divided into squadrons, commanded by officers of their own nation, and distributed them among the brian. tines, four of which he sent to Sandoval, as than staid with Alvarado, and he himself, with whether five, joined Chrifoval de Olid. This disposition being made, they cruised continually up and down the lake, and along the three causes; by which means a flop was put to the insults of the enemy, and many vessels loaded with provision and water were taken; so that the besieged were reduced to great distress these difficulties seemed only to whet their cou. rage and invention: they, by round-about ways, sent canoes of pioneers to clear the ditches whch the Spaniards had filled up, that they might be embarrassed in their retreat they, contrary to their old custom, made sallies by night, in order to fatigue the besiegers: and, lastly, they built thirty large vessels called piraguas, strengthened with planks, to shelter them from the shot in time of en engagement. With this fleet they sallied forth in the night, and lay in ambush behind a grove of reeds in the lake, which effectually concealed them from their view. In order to decoy the brigantines which used to cruize about the lake, by two en two at a time, they had provided three or four ca noes laden with provision, for a bait, and fixed a number of large stakes in the water, to destroy or encumber the brigantines; so as that they might board them with a better prospect of advantageous
Next day, according to their expedition, two of the brigantines that attended Sandoval began their cruize, under the command of Pedro de Bar ba and Juan Portico; and the Mexicans sent out their canoes another way, which being seen at a distance, pretended to fly and retire among the reeds; and the brigantines giving chace, soon fell in among the hidden flakes, where they were so embarrassed that they could neither move back wards nor forwards. Then the piraguas came from their lurking-places, and attacked them with such desperate fury, that the Spaniards were ob lived to employ the utmost efforts of their cou rage, and must have infallibly perished, had not some expert swimmers, by main strength of arms, hatchets, and other tools, removed the flakes, and made room for the brigantines, which having re gained their liberty, kept such a fire upon the enemy, that almost all their piraguas were sunk, land the rest pursued towards Mexico, with great slaughter. But, this viaory was not obtained be fore the brigantines had received great damage: many Spaniards were dangerously hurt, Juan Portico was killed, and Pedro de Barba died three days after of his wounds, to the inexpressible regret of Cortes, who lost in him a trusty friend, and an excellent officer. It was not long before this disaster was revenged upon the Mexicans, who concealed themselves a lfcond time among the reeds, on the supposition that the Spaniards would again fall into the snare. Cortes, having received intelligence of their design, ordered six brigantines to slider off in the night, and lie in ambush among another parcel of reeds not far from the ambuscade of the enemy: in con sequence of his instructions, one of there began her cruize in the morning, seemingly in quest of canoes laden with provisions, and discovering-the piraguas,as
as it were by accident, flood off immediately, and pretended to fly towards the place of the counter. ambuscade. She was immediately pursued by the piraguas, the Mexicans on board paddling and shouting with great alacrity, until, being at a con. lenient distance, the other brigantines sallied forth, and gave them such a terrible salute with their ar. tiller, that they were almost all sunk at the firs discharge, and most of their men periihed.,Cortes, understanding from the prisoners, that the besieged began to murmur at the want of pro. vision, water, and other necessaries, resolved to exert his utmost diligence in cutting off all relief from the city; and, in the mean time, he fenttwo Mexican noblemen with a message to Guatimozin, offering to leave him in possession of his Mexican empire, provided he would acknowledge the so. sovereignty of the king of Spain, which had been authenticated in the most solemn manner, during the reign of his predecessors.,In consequence of this proposal, the emperor as. sembled his council, to whom he communicated the offers of the Spanish general, and at the same time described the deplorable situation of Mexico; so that his ministers and officers unanimously ad. vised him to receive the overtures of Cortes to wards an accommodation. But this favourabledif- position was destroyed by the remonstrances of the priests, who pretended to have received auspicious responses from their idols, and encouraged them with assurance of victory and success. These ins nations and promises animated the nobles to such a pitch of hope and enthusiasm, that they set the Spaniards at defiance, and Guatimozin declared that he would put to death the first man who should in the sequel give the least hint of peace, whatever extremity they should undergo. he,The
'The general, being informed of this determination resolved to push on his hostilities, until he Should have carried fire and sword into the very heart of the city; and, having sent orders for this purpose to the commanders of the two attacks of Tacuba and Tapcaquilla, he himself, at the ap pointed time, marched by the causeway of Cuyo- can, at the head of the troops commanded by Cristal de Olid. The enemy had cleared the ditches as before, and cast up works, which however were soon demolished by the brigantines; so that the troops advanced, without any considerable opposition to the last bridge, where they found part of the causeway broke down, to enlarge the ditch; and, on the opposite bank, a huge fortification, defended by a prodigious multitude. This, how ever, was soon destroyed by the artillery, which made such havock that the enemy retired into the city, and the shore being left free, Cortes immediately landed his men, horse, and three pieces of cannon, by means of the brigantines and confederate canoes. But, before he advanced into the streets, he ordered the treasurer Julian de Alderete to slay behind, in order to fill up and secure the ditch, while the brigantines were directed to ap proach the (scene of aEion by the great canals, and fire upon the enemy. Alderete no sooner heard the battle begun, than looking upon the office in which he was engaged as a dishonourable piece of service, followed the troops into the engagement, and left the care of filling up the ditch to another officer, who likewise abandoned it for the same reason. The Mexicans flood the first charge with great resolution behind their trenches and barricades, and did the Spaniards considerable damage from their windows and terraces; when all of a sudden the action ceased, and they hastily quitted the ground which they had hitherto disputed with such,obstinate
obstinate valour. This unexpected cessation was owing to an order of Guatimozin, who being in formed that the great ditch was relinquished by the Spaniards, commanded his officers to prefer' their troops to fall upon the enemy in their retreat Cortes immediately suspect their design, and having barely time enough to return to his quarter before night, he began his retreat, after having set fre to some houses from which he had sustained some damage in his attack. But they had scarce wheeled about when their ears were startled with the dismal sound of the sacred trumpet, which none but the priests were permitted to blow, and they only on the most emergent occasions, as the ime date heralds of their gods. The tone was ve. recently loud, strong, and discordant, inspiring those barbarians with desperate rage and enthusiast. tic furs', which first broke forth in hideous out cries, and afterwards appeared in the action. Ar incredible number of their chosen warriors, pick. ed for the occasion, attacked the rear which was brought up by the Spaniards, and fought with fuel intrepidity, that the fire-arms and cross-bows had no effect upon their courage. Cortes understand ing the misfortune of the ditch, endeavoured to form his battalions, but found the talk impraai cable, because the confederates, who being in the front, first arrived at the ditch, threw themselve into it, with such confusion, that his orders wer either not heard or neglected. Some got over to the causeway in the brigantine and canoes, but r-uch greater number plunged into the wester there they were destroyed by whole companie of Mexican swimmers. As for the general, whi wa: left with some of his own people to maintain the fzht, his horse was killed under him with ar rows, and captain Francisco de Guzman alighting to accommodate him, was taken prisoner, without ar
any possibility of being rescued. At length he was taken on board of the brigantines, and returned to his quarters, wounded and extremely mortified, notwithstanding the great slaughter he had made among the Mexicans;, for.,a thousand Tlafcalans were killed in the action, above forty Spaniards were taken alive, and of those that remained, scarce one had escaped unwounded sand oval and Alvarado, who entered the city by different ways at the same time, met with al most the same success. They gained bridges, filled up ditches, destroyed houses, and were set upon in their retreat; but, as they had not the great ditch in their rear, they didn't lose above twenty Spaniards. Alderete, sensible of his offence, has tenet to the pretence of Cortes, and offered his head as an atonement for his crime; but, as it was no time to make such examples of severity, his pu niflhment was limited to a very sharp reprimand. The operations of war were suspended, and the liege turned to a blockade, until the wounds of the ib!diers could be cured, and some new plan con certe for annoying the enemy the Mexicans celebrated their victory with great rejoicing ; all the temples of the city were illuminated, and that which was dedicated to the god of war resounded with the notes of military instruments, accompanying the sacrifice of those miserable Spaniards who were taken alive. The motions of the Mexicans were distinctly perceived from the quarters, and some soldiers went so far as to affirm, they could distinguish the voices and knew the particular victims: a dismal spectacle ! at which Cortes himself could not help shedding tears; and his officers followed 'his example. A little before day-break, the enemy, elevated with. their good fortune, advanced by the three cause ways, to beat up the quarters and set fire to the VOL. II. I three
three brigantines; but the same infernal trumpet by which they were inspired, gave notice of their approach, and they were soon repulsed by the ar tiller. Next day, Guatimozin gave out among his own people, that Cortes had been killed in his retreat on the causeway; he sent the heads of the sacrificed Spaniards to the neighbouring towns as tokens of his victory, which might confirm those that wavered, and induce others to return to their obedience: and, lazily, he circulated a report, that the god of war being appeased by those vic tims, had declared, in an intelligible voice, that in eight days the enemies of the Mexicans should in. fallible perish. This menace being communicated, by means of his emissaries, to the confederate In diana, they were so terrified at the precise limitation of the time assigned for their destruction, that they resolved to quit the army; and, during the first three nights, almost all the allies abandoned their quarters, except their chief officers, who va sued their lives less than their honours H Al
C H A P. XXXII. Tbe Spaniards enter and make a lodgment ;n the cidty,the emperor and his consort are Seized in attempt ing to .escape; the city surrenders to Cries; and the whale empire of Mexico acknowledges the k.t.g of Spain's fvelre-gn:y C O R T Es, alarmed at this circa 'face, immediately sent the Indian commanders to flop the fugitives until the eight days should be elapsed, that they might be convinced of the imposture and when that term expired, they-bes came sensible of .he falshood of the oracle, and returned to their duty with fresh vigour and re solution. At the same time new levies came from Tezeuco, a strong reinforcement arrived from Flash cala, and several nations which had hitherto observed a neutrality, induced by the greatness of the enterprize and the distress of Mexico, declared for the Spaniards; so that, in a few days after the ter rible dilemma to which he was reduced, Cortes found himself at the head of two hundred thou sand fighting men. Mean while the Mexicans were not idle, but made frequent attacks both by day and by night upon the quarters, from which how ever they were constantly repulsed with great loss; and the general being informed that discontents prevailed in the city, in consequence of the famine, by which great numbers perished, he resolved to proceed again to aston, left the zeal or courage of his confederates should abate; and, as his troops had suffered so much in retreating, it was agreed that the commander of each attack should keep hiss - ground,
ground, and penetrate as far as the great square of Tlateleuco, where the three bodies proposed to join, and fortify themselves, in order to act as oc. cation should require this plan being approved by his officers, the general made provision of bread-water, and other necessaries for the subsistence of the troops in Mexi. co; and strong garrisons being left in the quarters and place of arms, A!varado and Sandoval began their march by day-break from Tacuba to Taper. quills, while Cortes advanced from Cuyocan with the body of troops commanded by Olid, and the brigantines and canoes were distributed so as to support the three attacks. They found the cause. ways in a posture of defence, the bridges drawn up, the ditches cleared, and the barricades de fended by enormous multitudes of the enemy; but these difficulties were surmounted as formerly, and the three captains much about the same time enter ed the city, where they fortified themselves as well as they could with the ruins of the houses, so as to effect a lodgment for the night. This new me thod of proceeding broke all the measures which the Mexicans had taken to charge them in the re treat, and filled the whole city with terror and consternation. A council was immediately con vexed at the palace of Guatimozin, where it was resolved to make their utmost efforts to dislodge the Spaniards; and their army being divided inc three bodies, advanced to the attack in the dawn of the morning; but, preparations having beer made for their reception, they no sooner approach ed than the artillery began to play with such execution as put a flop to their career, and the Spa. niards attacking in their turn, they were soon rout ed and dispersed, and the quarters bettered for th, ensuing night. Yet the assailants had manifolb,difficultie
difficulties to encounter; for they were obliged, as they advanced, to destroy houses, level works, and fill up the trenches which were cut across every street: and, notwithstanding. these obstructions in less than four days all the three. leaders came in sight of the Tlateleuco-,Alvarado was the first who arrived at this spa pious square, where the enemy, whom he had driven before him, endeavoured to make a stand; bit, before they could be drawn up in order, he fell upon them with such fury, that they abandon ed the ground, and retired in great confusion into the streets on the opposite side. Perceiving at a small distance a very large temple, the towers of which were possessed by'the enemy, he detached some companies to take possession of that post, which would secure his rear, and this service be ing performed almost without opposition, he. or tered a smoke t' be made upon the top as a signal of his success, and drew up his troops in one body to make a proper lodgment. It was not longibe- fore he was joined by Cortes and Olid, who ad danced by another avenue, driving a throng of Mexicans before them into the square, who fall ing upon Alvarado's battalion, were cut in pieces: and the same miserable fate attended those who were driven by the third division under Gonzalo de Sandoval. The enemy perceiving the whole force of the Spaniards thus united, ran away with the utmost precipitation to defend the person of their prince; and their retreat gave Cortes an opportunity to lodge himself to the best advantage, with out interruption. Some companies were posted in the adjacent streets, to secure his quarters from insults; the brigantines and canoes were ordered to cruise along the three causeways, and send him notice of every thing that should occur; and thei 3 con-confederate
Indians were employed in clearing the square from the dead bodies, some of which they devoured, in spite of all the precautions that could be taken to prevent such abominable banquet sat night, several parties of wretched peasants, half dead with hunger, came to surrender them. selves; and tho' the general knew they were dis. missed by the enemy as useless mouths, he ordered them to be fed and released, that they might seek their livelihood in the country. Next morning, all the streets within the enemy's district were filled with armed men, in order to cover those who work. ed upon the fortifications, which they were raising-as their ultimate retreat: and Herman suspended the attack he had meditated, because they did not proceed to hostilities; resolving to try, once more, if they would accept of terms of accommodation, row that they saw him so advantageously posted in the very heart of their city. For this purpose, he lent four of the principal prisoners with a message to Guatimozin, who with his ministers anP nobility had retired to a spacious angle of the city, the greatest part of which bordered upon the lake, and the rest, which was at no great distance from the great square of Tlateieuco, he had fortified with strong bulwarks and deep ditches filled with water. Cortes, in the morning after he had sent the message, advanced to reconnoitre these forti fictions, which were covered with an incredible number of armed men, who nevertheless, made no motion towards an engagement, but pointed their weapons downwards, in signal of truce. Yet, in order to persuade the Spaniards that their desire of peace could not proceed from their necessities, they affected to sit upon the works at victuals, and threw cakes of mais among the common people; while their champions, from time to time, sallied forth, and challenged the Spaniards to single corn,bat.
tat. One of there advanced near the place where the general flood, and, by, his ornaments, seemed to be a person of distinction: he was armed with a sword and buckler that belonged to one oT the Spaniards whom they had sacrificed, and versified in his defiance with such arrogance as provoked the indignation of Cortes, who ordered the inter peter to tell him, that if would bring ten others like himself, that Spaniard (pointing to his own page) should have leave to engage them all at once. The page, who name was Juan Nunez de Mer cato, a youth about seventeen, thinking his ho your was concerned, as the general had mentioned his name upon this occasion, stole away from the croud, and leaping over the ditch, attacked the challenger in sight of both armies. He received the first blow of the Mexican upon his shield; and, at the same time, gave-him such a vigorous thrust as laid the champion dead upon the spot; then seizing his sword and buckler, returned and laid them at the feet of Cortes, who was so pleased with this early proof of his valour, that he embraced him with great tenderness, and, with his own hands, girded upon him the weapon he had so gallantly won.,The suspension of arms lasted three or four days, during which Guatimozin- held several councils to deliberate upon the overtures of peace which Cortes had made; but the priests opposed them To strenuously, that after obstinate debates, it was resolved to renew hostilities and prosecute the war; and in the mean time, the emperor gave orders, that all the piraguas and canoes should retire to a kind of bay made by the lake in that part of the city, that they might be ready to secure his retreat, in case he should be driven to extremity. This order was instantly obeyed, and as an infinite number of those vessels were seen making towards 4 that
that bay, Cortes pieced their design, and ap. pointed Gonzalo de Sandoval commander in chief of all the brigantines, giving him instructions to surround the bay at a distance, and keep a watch ful eye upon the enemy's motions. Then he ad danced with his troops towards their fortifications, and the Mexicans no sooner saw the van-guard ap. proach, than they signified the breach of the truce by their hostile cries, and prepared for a vigorous defence; but when they saw the havock made by the cannon in their bulwarks, which they had sup. posed impregnable, their hearts began to fail them, and in all probability, they sent notice of their danger to Guatimozin; for, in a little time, they made signs of demanding a parley, by hanging out white cloths and repeating the word Peace. when they were given to understand, by the in interpreters, that whoever had any proposals to of ser, might approach with safety, three or four herons of note appeared on the farther side of the ditch, and told Cortes they were appointed by the emperor to come and receive his proposals towards an accommodation. The general assured them, that he sincerity wished for peace; and as affairs of that nature could not be so speedily transacted by deputies, L. desired that their prince might come and treat in person, and ii. the mean time he would cause hostilities to cease. The am ambassadors retired with this answer, and in the evening returned with a message, importing that Guatimozin would come in person next day, with his counsellors and attendants, in order to put finishing stroke to the treaty; but, at the appointed time, the deputies came back, End pretended thai an unforeseen accident had prevented the enipero from keeping his word, and that he could not pos sibly come till tomorrow: the conference was a! towards delayed, on pretence of adjusting certai,previous
previous ceremonies; and, in a word, their intention was to amuse the Spaniards until their mo march's escape or retreat should be accomplished. At length, Cortes began to fufpea their sincerity, and told them that if they did not come to a resolution within a certain time, he would prosecute the war with the utmost rigour; but before the term was quite expired, Gonzalo de Sandoval, who commanded the fleet, discovered, at the dawn of day, great multitudes embarking on board of the canoes, and having sent immediate notice of this armament to Cortes, he advanced towards them with his brigantines. They consisted of all the nobility and principal citizens, who were resolved to make their last efforts against the brigantines, so as to employ them fully until the emperor should have made his retreat; and accordingly they at tacked the Spaniards furiously, without being dismayed at the havoc which was made among them by the artillery. In the very hottest of this en engagement, Sandoval perceived six or seven piraeus rowing from the farthest part of the bay with the utmost speed, and forthwith ordered captain Garcia de Holuriin to give them chloe with his brigantine, which was a prime sailor. It was not hong before this alert officer came up m with the foreknow piragua, which when he was going to at tack, the Mexicans ceased rowing, and hailing the brigantine, desired the captain would not fire, be cause the emperor was on bo.:rd. This dcJ.ra- tin being interpreted by one of the Spain f,. - tiers who had learned a :smattering of time ian gua2e, Hoguiin, and sore of hi men, !ca:-.d into tiel plague to Scire the prize, and Cuaiimozin la evarcin;g to him, life, " I agra vr:ur pristine, and I'[" iii obey you in all things: all the favour I ask,is, that some regard may be had to the honour of the empress, my consort, and her female at-,1 5 " tenants,,
- tenants." So faying,.he handed that princes into the brigantine, and perceiving Holguin in lome concern about the other piraguas, he told him he needed not give himself any concern about his followers, for, they would all come and die at the feet of their sovereign. Accordingly, he made a certain final, at sight of which the Mexicans dropped their weapons, and followed the brian. tine with thee soft submissive obedience. The no. ability on board' of the canoes which were so hotly engaged with Sandoval, no sooner heard of their prince's misfortune, than they began to utter a dismal yell of lamentation, surrendered to the Spa niards without further resistance, and begged to be taken on board of the brigantines, that they might share the fortune of their emperor. As for Holguin, he no sooner made Guatimozin prisoner, than he dispatched a canoe to Cortes, with an ac count of his success, which he likewise communi dated to Sandoval as he passed, without bearing down too rear him, lest he should order him to iring his prisoner on board. While there things were transacted on the lake, the general-was em played in attacking the wooden fortifications, which th Mexicans defended with extraordinary courage and resolution, until they were informed by their sentinel, that the piraguas were taken, when they suddenly retired in confusion, overwhelmed with' fear, astonishment, and despair that very instant, the messenger sent by Holguin arrived, and gave Cortes an account of what had happened; in consequence of which, the troops were ordered to keep their ground without advancing, till further intrusions ; and two com panes of Spaniards were sent to the landing-place, to guard the royal prisoner, whom the general in tper!n received a; a little distance, from the quar.,teii,
terms, with great courtesy and respect, which th emperor returned by signs and gesticulations when they arrived at the quarters, Guaiimozin and his empress went in first and seated themselves; but the prince seeming to recollect himself, rose up again and desired Cortes to take his place: be ing prevailed upon to reassume his seat, he addressed himself to the general in words to this effet. ' Valiant and renowned chief, why do not you " draw that sword and take away my life? prison " hers of my rank are a burthen to the conque " or: dispatch me then, without delay, that I " may have the honour of dying by your hand, " since I have not been so happy as to fall in the " defence of my country." Here he could not help bursting into tears, while the empress wept bitterly; and Cortes, whose heart melted with compassion, could scarce refrain from following their example. In order to alleviate their sorrow, he told him he was prisoner to one of the most powerful monarchs of the universe, from whore royal clemency he might hope not only to regain his liberty, but even his empire; and that, in the mean time, until that monarch's pleasure Should be known, he should be treated with all the respect due to the emperor of Mexico.,Guatimozin was about the age of twenty-four, tall, robust, extremely well proportioned, and of a complexion so fair, that, among his countrymen, he looked like a native of a different climate: his countenance was lofty, and commanded respect, his disposition was martial, and his bravery had raised him to the throne. The empress, who was about the same age, had a commanding aspen and dignity of deportment which attracted the eye, and inspired refpeÃ³l and veneration, though her beauty was rather masculine than agreeable. Cortes un understanding the-was niece to Motezuma, renewed,16 his
his tenders of service with great cordiality on that account; but, as he thought it was necessary to reduce that part of the city which was still in the enemy's possession, he took leave of his prisoners, whom he left to the care of Sandoval, and went out to give orders for another attack.,Guatimozin guessing the cause of his abrupt departure-desired to speak with him, and when he came back, conjured him to spare his unhappy fibjeies, who would surrender peaceably whenever they should be informed of his captivity: he there. fore earnestly begged that one of his own minister; might accompany Cortes, and command the Mexicans in the name of their prince, to obey the Spa. nisi general; and this order they no sooner received than they threw down their arms and submitted They were permitted to march out, without arm or baggage, and they forthwith took the advantage of this permission, retiring tumultuously in fact multitudes, that the Spaniards were amazed at the numbers of armed men who remained after so ma. ny defeats, and such repeated carnage when the troops of Cortes took possession o the places they had evacuated, nothing but object of horror and compassion met their view. They found a vast number of miserable wretches lying sick and wounded, calling upon death to release them from their tortures; and saw whole court and houses filled with dead bodies of men of note who had been slain in battle, and were kept until their funeral obsequies could be celebrated; from there charnel-houses, issued such a noisome fiend as even threatened the air with infection, and ob lived Cortes to tate immediate measures for pre venting a pestilence, by ordering the bodies to b interred. Until this contagious nusance could b removed, he retired with his prisoners to Cuyocans after having assigned quarters to Sandoval and Al,varado
varado, who superintended the cleansing of Mexico and this disagreeable duty being performed in a few days, he returned to the city, the intire reduction of which happened on the 13th of August, in the year 1521, after a siege that hailed ninety-three days. Guatimozin being taken, and the capital of that vast empire subdued, the tribu mary princes came in to do homage to the conque. or, and their example was followed by all the petty caciques of the circumjacent diftri$ts;-fo that, in a short time, the king of Spain was uni verbally acknowledged sovereign of all those rich and fertile dominions.,The
TheDIscoVERY and CON QJ EST of PE R.u, by FRAN C I-S Pizarro H-A P. L Pizarro's parentage; his firJl appearance in life;,raises himself by his own. abilities; serves under Balboa wish truces; acquires an eaJj fortune; tempted to join Almagro and de Luques in pursuit of new discoveries; Almagro's birth; they sit out a vessel, and proceed to Pert Pines; have fit Skirmishes with the natives, and news of vast treasure, but are greatly dijqrefed; their design very near ruin; all their men desert except fourteen.,Otwithftanding some Spanifh writers have affirmed that Francis Pizarro, to whose valour and perseverance Spain owes the reduction of Peru, was a nobleman by birth, we are told by others, with more shew of reason, and finger proof, that he was the illegitimate son of Gonzalo Pizarro, an officer at Truxillo, a town in Estremadura who at first exposed him as a foundling at the door of the church; but being discovered to be the father, was obliged to take him under his own care, which he did; fulfilling, however, the:duty of a parent very indifFerently; giving him no man ner of education, and setting him to keep his hogs, an employment in which he spent great-part of his boyish days having an innate impulse that taught him, he knew not why, to look with contempt on his oc creation, and prompted him to alien, he rah,away
away from the herd, and got on board a steel bound for the Weft-Indies, where he was for taken notice of for his prudence, assiduity, and ready wit, so that he raised himself from the meanest offices to a commission, and having served with honour in Hispaniola and Cuba, he accompanied Hosea to the gulph of Darien, by whom he was left to govern, in his absence, a colony, which he fettled there pizarro afterwards served under Vasquez Nunez de Balboa, and acquired the character of a skilful, brave, and intrepid officer. He fettled at Panama on its being first built, and as he had gained a considerable fortune, seemed entirely disposed to a life of ease and enjoyment; from which he vas foon,diverted by the thirst of glory, and, per laps, an intermingled desire of increasing his pos sessions.,In the beginning of the sixteenth century, the Pinions had discovered Brazil, on the eastern coast of South America, but no discoveries had been hitherto made to the westward of it, when Pi varro, spirited up by Almagro, an adventurer of whom we shall speak more largely hereafter, en tered into p.:rtneifrip with him and Ferdinand de Luques, a rich school-master fettled at Panama, to pursue the enquiries set on foot by Nunez de Balboa for that purpose pizarro and Diego de A!magro were to set sail on this expedition in a fleet fitted out at their own charge; and, in case of any new discoveries, the sooner was to keep possession of the place, while the latter was to return to Panama, to procure re crusts and other necessaries; which Ferdinand w.s to prepare and have in as much readiness for them as possible, acting in quality of their agent; nor indeed was either of the other two to well adapted to this employment, he being not only the oldest but theories
richest of the three, reckoned worth a good rum of ready money, besides a considerable estate, and be ing Cole proprietor of the island of Tobago, in the bay of Panama.,Diego took his name of Almagro, from a town in the province of Castile in Old Spain, where he was found, when an infant, in the street; so that it never was known who had given him birth: his education was very indifferent; his rise in life was owing entirely to the strength of his natural parts; and he had a soul formed for great undertakings the intentions of these three partners were looked upon by the common herd of mankind, whose notions, groveling and confined, cannot stretch the heights of glory, as romantic and im possible; and such as must certainly end in their de ftruaion.,However, superior to vulgar suggestions, or to common opinions, they persisted in their designs, entering into articles never to abandon one another upon any account whatever, promising that either danger nor disappointment should detach them from their enterprize; and to there, without the least reserve, equal parcels of whatever wealth They should obtain; having first deducted the emperor's dues and all contingent charges there was something extremely singular as well as solemn in their manner of ratifying these articles Pizarro and Almagro publickly assisted at a high mass, celebrated by Ferdinand de Luques, he being a priest, who having broken the consecrated host into three parts, took the first himself, and administered the rest to. them, thereby signifying that they should pursue their present project with no less eagerness than if their eternal happiness de pended on it.,They found it no difficult matter to obtain the sanction of Don Pedro de Arias, otherwise Perra-,rias,
bias, governor of Panama, to their agreement who looked upon such an attempt' in three private subjects as wild and visionary; for two or three ex petitions, of which he himself had been the pro. mother, having failed, he could not think it pofilbl, for them to succeed i however, in case they did, h, relied upon his own rank and authority for transfer. ing the sweets of their labour to himself, which hI would not-have scrupled doing, being proud, un. jul, cruel, and immoderately avaricious; and i they miscarried, which every body judged they would, it could be no manner of disappointment disadvantage to him. However, he neither reaped til advantages of their voyage, nor was he gratis with the news of their miscarriage, being-soon as ter this removed from his government having college such people as had been con. cornet with Balboa in his expeditions, and pur chased a new ship built also by him, Pizarro em barked about the middle of November, 1524, to. gather with one hundred and fourteen men, officer included, the most inconsiderable body that eve dared so vast an undertaking from Panama he failed to the Pearl islands, ir the midst of the bay, where he took in wood water, and hay for his horses, having four alone with him; horses being a valuable and scarce commodity then, in that part of the world Thence he proceeded about a hundred leagues te the southward, and landed at Port Pines, upon th( continent; but the inhabitants having fled up th country, which appeared to be nothing but bog and mountains over run with wood, without an) prospect of prevision, Pizarro ran farther down the coast, but did not find the prospect improve besides, the rainy season coming on fas, and hi men beginning to sicken through fatigue, and wan
of proper aliment, he sent his flip for provisions the se of Pearls. - In the mean time he was joined by Almagro and sixty recruits; when, notwithstanding the badness of the climate, and unhealthiness of the soil, they landed in conjunction, and had many encounters with the natives, in one of which Almagro lost an eye; when happening to meet with gold to the value of fourteen or fifteen thousand crowns, they recovered their spirits a little, resolving at all ha cards to pursue their project; in which they were encouraged by their pilot, who had, during the time of their being on shore, ran down as far as cape Afford, where he seized some prisoners, who had given him a most tempting description of the riches of the country whither they intended. But for the present, this description was but the thirst of Tantalus; since, though so nigh these treasures, they could not at any rate approach them, provisions being exhausted, money abort, and many of their best hands much out of order; besides, Pi varro had sent Almagro to Panama with what gold they had taken, to purchase provisions and necesse saries.,Here he was jointed by about forty recruits, and. having bought up fine hcr!'e, arms, cloaths, shoes, provisions, and medicines, he returned to Pizarro, whose situation was almost mni'erlahle; the greater part of Vis men being eine' fit k or dead. How ever, they removed frown this un-wholesome place to the isle of Gaily ; where having said about fifteen days, the, ran still farther south along the coast, and found the weather continue so bad, and the country so much under water, that even the daunt left Pizarro began to despair of succeeding affairs wore so indifferent a face, that the two commanders were near coming to an open breach,,iib
in a dispute concerning their pursuing or abandon. ing the voyage 7 however,, the former being deter. mined, Pizarro, with the remainder of his men, went back to Gallo, there to wait the return of Almagro, who was once more dispatched for rein. enforcements to Panama.,Many of the soldiers having desired to be per. mitted to go along with him, it was absolutely re. sured; but notwithstanding the great care which was taken to prevent their forwarding any letters, some of them having threatened to complain to the governor, that sending them on this expedition, was devoting'them to slaughter, a paper subscribed by most of them, setting forth their hardships, and desiring to be recalled, was so artfully enclosed in a bottom of cotton yarn, that it escaped the vii. lance of the officers, and came safely to the hands of Pedro los Riot, the new governor, Pedrarias being lately displacement was upon this account Almagro was prevented from raising more recruits, and a flip' dispatched to the sand of Gallo, with a commissary on board, to bring back such of the men as survived The arrival of the flip was the most grievous wound Pizarro ever felt; however, he intreated the com misery to allow such as chose it voluntarily, to slay with him; which being granted, he drew a line with the point of his sword, and endeavoured, in the most pathetic terms he could utter, to per. fade. them not to abandon so glorious a pro' spec, now they were on the eve of reaping a golden harvest for their manifold toils, saying, that for his part he saw such renown as well as advantage must accrue from a little more perceive. rance, that he was determined never to retreat: he declared, he did not mean to take the leal advantage of them, for he would divide equally with them whatever fell into his hands ; and concluded
eluded with desiring such as had courage enough to persist, to come over the sword. But so severe had been the distresses of these poor people, that only thirteen men and a mulatto came over, the rest embarking with the commissary and returning, to Panama.,C H A P. II. Pizarro has but a poor prospect of success; is joined a few voluntiers, with whom he pages the equator they pick upfome wealth; Candiafent to ex amine the country, of which he gives a prodigious account; they are well used at Payta; entertained ly a great lady; to whom Pizarro preaches christianity one of his men goes mad for love of her; returns to Panama;' the governor hinders his levy ing men i and he embarks for Spain. T HE anguish and despair of Pizarro at being thus abandoned, are inexpressible; his pre sent prosper was wild and barren, nor did his fu ture seem better: that his affairs should amend, came scarcely within the compass of his hope: however, all his grief was inward; he communi dated his thoughts to nobody; but assuming some thing of a chearful look, retired with the few daring followers of his desperate fortune to the isle of Gorgonaaaa for a supply of water; and here he' was joined in a short time by Almagro, with a few voluntiers whom he had allured into the service, and a pilot with these they left Gorgonaaaa, and sailing along the coast passed the equator; having been two years in reaching thirty degrees south latitude, a course which, now that the winds and tides are known, is made in as many weeks. However, they picked up,several
several Indian vessels in their way, of considerable value; all which confirmed the most sanguine hopes they could have entertained of the wealth of the land in queR of which they were bound and in order to put the truth of there reports beyond all doubt, Pizarro chose Pedro de Candia, a native of the isle of Candia, whence he took his name, a sensible, well-spoken man, and very ca. able of insinuating himself into the good graces of the Indians, to penetrate as far as he could into Tumbez, and from his own observations make his report pedro offered his commission in a moRt masterly manner, and returned safely to Pizarro with affray. ces that the country surpassed what the warmest ia. nation could suggest; that their wealth and spleen. dor, to him who had not seen it, was incredible. The walls of their public buildings, in the con. firucQing which great ingenuity was manifested, be. ing covered with gold and silver pizarro now held a council among his people, in which, after much serious deliberation, it was resolved that they should return to Panama; where, having now received sufficient assurances of the prodigious advantages to be reaped from a proper expedition into Peru, it was to be hoped they would meet people enough willing to embark in the undertaking, as well as supplies, that must make success indubitable; besides, it was allowed by them all, that in their present circumstances they could not proceed with the least probability of success; and that, when properly reinforced, there could not be any fear of their again essaying the dangers they had undergone in this voyage, taught by experience to avoid thzm.,However, they first sailed a few leagues up the coast, and made Payta, called by Pizarro Santa Cruz, one of the best ports on the Peruvian coasts here
here they cast anchor, and found the natives very humane and civil, ready to supply them with what ever provisions they wanted; for which, in return, they gave them fish-hooks, glass beads, and other trifles. The rising of the sea forced them to quit thelharbour, leaving one Alphonse de Molina on shore; in search of whom, having coasted farther south to no purpose, they returned, and he Coon after came on board, in a boat such as they use in that country, not unlike a float; telling them he had been entertained in a very handsome manner by a lady of great estimation, who was very desirous to see the flip; and soon after she l went other floats to pilot them to a safer harbour, a little more to the northward. Pizarro sent Molina, with three other gentlemen, on shore, to compliment this lady, and desire the favour of seeing her on board; in consequence of which she came along with them, and was received by Pizarro in the most elegant manner his circum fiances would admit. She now, in return, invited Pizarro to come on shore; and tho' he offered to wait on her, without any hostages, it was what (he absolutely refused; and next morning sent twelve Indians of some quality, who staid on board, in spite of Pizarro's remonstrances, all the time he was on flore. Madam Capillary, so was this lady called, re civet him, as soon as he landed, with a great re tinge, and conducted him to an elegant arbour; I where she entertained him at dinner, and after wards with several Indian diversions, which were very pieafing.,He thanked her in return for her great civilities, and made her a long speech, in which he set forth, as well as he could, the excellencies of the christian religion, and. the errors of idolatry; concluding with exhorting her and her attendants to em-brace
brace the truth, and to submit to the king of Spain, who was the most powerful king on earth.,To this discourse the-Indians answered in gene. rat terms, that they did not know a great deal about religion, but were satisfied with that cf their ancestors; and as to a sovereign prince, they knew none who ought to command their allegiance but their own lawful inca, so they filed their em. pero Guayanacapa.,After this conversation, the Spaniards retired, very well satisfied with their reception ; and when they were about to hoist sail, Alton, one of the persons who had accompanied Molina in his em. balmy to madam Cappillna, having fallen deeply in love with her, begged that he might be left behind; but that favour being refused him, le went flora mad, fancying himself a king, and telling his com. pinions they were vagabonds and usurpers, come to deprive him of his crown, but he would protea it with his sword; which he drew, and would er. vainly have done some mischief; if the pilot had not brought him to the ground with an oar, and assisted to chain him down below deck towards the end of the year 1527 Pizarro turned to Panama, bringing with him several pieces of gold in the mass, three Indian boys, whom hein tended to educate for interpreters, and some Peruvian sheep, of whose strength and make we have taken feme notice in our account of Sir Francis Drake.,The specimens that he brought with him of the riches of the country, and the accounts given by him and his people of what they had seen, mid those who had before ridiculed this expedition a ruin-us and absurd, confers their error, and incline to partake of its advantages. But Pizarro been opposed by the new governor in levying men, an ether preparations for pursuing his schemes; an finding the support of an authority superior to hee Ow
rbwn absolutely neceia ry,.with-the consent of.nfis partners embarked for Old Spain, to solicit thebaid ireton of'the emperor, and such' powers as were requisite for forwarding their ichemes.,C H : P. III. Pizarro.'arrives in Span; is' presented to Charles V.,is appointed to govern such discoveries. as e hall - make: is joined by his for brothers, and returns to Pa/aina : whence he continues his course to St. Mait- theiv's.bay, where he suffers greatly for attacking, nes asked, the' defenceless Indians: si ives to in rl e 'himfif with e people if Tunbez;. whom hlet^fidaies, and gets vas hies: he bu.ldsforts and a church: a review of the divfioi5 in Peru at the the of Pizarro's recovering that king-ii. . T E arrived without any memorable accident :H[~ at Sevil, whence he set out for Toledo, at which place Charles V. then held,' his court ; and here Pizarro, having presented his' imperial! majesty with some Peruvians dressed in their proper habitS, - two or three Peruvian sheep, and some gold and fil ver vessels, the manufacture of the country, met with a most gracious reception the emperor having very pleased attended to his account of the difficulties he had undergone in his search for Peru, referred him for instructions to the council of the Indies, which authorised him to proceed in thcconqucft of Peru, as far - as two hundred leagues to the southward of Tun btz.,He then procured to be contemned to himself, by sn imperial grant, the titles ofcapt'ri'f-f.nereal, lord lieutenant, and chiefjuisice of 'peru. 'This was ex VOL. sl. ' K .i cooly
prefly contrary to his agreement with his partners, having promised to procure the second of.thefe title for Almagro, and the last for his pilot, who hawser. vet with great skill and fidelity. For Ferdinand he obtained the title of protector-general of the Peru. viands, and the emperor's promise of recommending him to the pope as a fit person to be nominated bi shop of Tumbez; of which place Almagro was named governor, with the title of don, and his bas tard son was legitimated. Of the thirteen men who had chosen to remain with Pizarro on the island of Gallo, on such as were gentlemen was conferred the honour of knighthood, and such as were not, were raised to the rank of gentlemen these commissions were made out at Toledo the 26th of July, 1528, to the content of the ad venturer, whom six Dominican friars were ordered to attend as missionary to Peru; and to the satisfaction of the court of Spain, which was well pleased with the prosper of annexing another powerful empire to its dominions. And it is to be observed that Spain had the peculiar advantage, in her American conquests, of not advancing a single piece of money for the service j the countries them serves yielding sufficient to defray every expence, and satisfy the utmost avarice of the conquerors.,Pizario having fettled all the affairs that brought him into Spain, now paid a visit to Truxillo, where he was born: here he found his father married t a woman of family, by whom-he had three sons, Ferdinand, Gonfalo, and John; and his mother, who was but a poor country girl, wedded to a far mer, by whom fbe had only one Ton, called Francis Martin d'Alcantra: there four brothers he enticed 'into his service, and arrived with them, in the month of January, 1530, at Nombre de Dios, which is twenty-five leagues north-west of Pant,'r.a,
ma, whither, with all his people, he soon came, over land alm agro, very much dissatisfied with Pizarro's having engrossed to himself all the honours and au authority that he could, at first refused to assist him any farther in the affair, till Pizarro having promised to cede the title of lord-lieutenant, and Come other advantages, in his favour, they were seeming ly reconciled i though Almagro never truly forgave him, as will appear in the sequel three Ihlps being now prepared for the expedition on board of which were an hundred and eighty five soldiers, thirty-seven horses, with arms, am munition, &c. Pizarro 'set sail from Panama, but met with the winds as contrary as they had been in his former voyage; so that finding it impracticable to keep the sea longer, with any degree of safety, while there were horses on board, he came to anchor above an hundred leagues to the north ward of Tumbez, at a place which they called St. Matthew's bay. Here they landed, and falling up on the natives without any provocation, made many often prisoners, and plundered their towns, in which they found vast treasures; for the poor people, being honest themselves, suffered no deceit, and consequently took no care of hiding any thing from them. The Spaniards remitted upwards of thirty thousand pesoes in gold by the (hips which were tent for reinforcements to Panama, together with a large parcel of emeralds: several were lost by the folly of the people into whose hands they fell, who, to try if they were as hard as diamonds, pounded them with hammers. In consequence of this injudicious behaviour to the natives, Pizarro and his men were reduced to great extremity for want of provisions ; and many of them contracted a strange sort of disorder, which they imputed to the water they drain being poi-,K 2 Toned;
i 6-tbHÂ£ C 0 N Q-J E ,S^ %1 F P E R t soned-; for their faces and bodies on a sud. en covered with warts, that put tfri:-to excessive pain, and fine of them bled to death, when these were cut off being joined by several recruits from Almagro, 2nd some Spaniards, who had been invited hither by the same of the riches of the country, from Ni. caragua,-a place very far to the north-welt of Pa.' rama, and rear the bay of Honduras, he continued his march to Tumbez, keeping the sea all along il -. fighters great disputes subsisted between the people of Tumbez and the inhabitants of .a neighbouring island called Puna, Pizarro thought to avail slim. seif of their dissensions, by makiniffnrids. of the latter; but finding them false. adrijaifezbling he atra-ckd and wonted them, setting ' liberty above six hundred natives of Tumbez, whom he had de. tainee prisoners and among thei a person of great oai ty : these he sent home, conduCed by three of his pcopie;-,'id, in consequence of this civility, eÂ¢xce3id to have found the Tumbezenes his friends. it'-'ie ' was strangely deceived; for the firs of his ' tl^:e hin afterwards fell into their hands, they treat t .rainy murdered. However, the landing some ~' )-v.:'ih nImor!e and artillery among them, soon put ' 5:c 'h'enr into confusion for they fled wherever thespis p'a:'-rdT's advanced, who .t length were left en tire:' n.;m hers of the valley of Tumbez, where thb Â· il-s .cf treasure which they found were almost in cred.':!e; having pc.effeion not only of the inca's *pitt e, but of the temple of the fun, where gold, sic', pia rife, srneralds, and other rich spoils, lay j;, :::- e.-.:ble heaps.,-;o-icrat a consternation did the noise of the ord nD.:': ard tie appearance of the horses, spread a .,;> .ih r:- .i;.je, t'iat they declared, if thespis,' ; .a.
yards were not gods, they must be devil ;- itk. n being in the powers man to oppose themes ''--':,Nor did Pizarro neglee to make a prayer use of the terrors his presence had infused, refolviingto ptifi his present advantages to the utmost; however, he deferred this a little while till he had erected a sort, to whiche might, in case of any emergency, escape, and in which the recruits he expected might quarter He built one accordingly, on the sea-coast, to which he gave the;name of St. Michael, this was in the year 1531. It was the first Spanish co tony planted in Peru; and a church being raised there at the same. time, father Ferdinand de Lu. ques being rendered incapable, through indisposition of fulfilling that office, F. Reginald, de Pes drags was constituted protector of the Indies.,A settlement of this sort was certainly much. wanted; and there wasno place on the wholecoaft' so properly situated for the purpose, as that chosen by Pizarro. .-this next Step was equally prudent, disinterested, and spiriting; for he made an equal division of ail the gold and silver in his custody among his men, giving notes for it, payable at Panama,. to such as were to accompany him; and to those who were-to remain behind in the new colony, delivering their shares, without abatement, to enable them to pur sue their different occupations.,It was plain that he could not maintain his footing in this territory by force; and yet from his erecting and fortifying a town, as well as obliging the neighbouring natives to acknowledge the Spa niards as matters, it was evident he resolved to de fend it.,Nothing lays a kingdom open to invasion, or contributes to weaken it, so much as intestine jars; and this was the case in Peru, when Pizarro invaded 3 it.
it. It will not be amiss to take a view, at leaf a slight one, of the affairs of the kingdom at that time.,All accounts agree in telling us, that few princes who ever filled the throne of Peru excelled in vir. tues the late inca, or emperor, called by some Spa. nisi writers Guayanacapa, and by others Guayana- cava: he was generous, valiant, and humane: nor was his good fortune beneath his deserts; he was generally successful in his undertakings, having made several considerable additions to his crown, particularly that of a province called Quito; to confirm his title to which, he married the laugh. ter of the late sovereign of that country, by whom he had a son called Athuallpa, or by some Spanish authors, Ataba!iba, to whom, on his death-bed, he bequeathed the crown of Quito, as being inde pendent of the inca's dominions, and descending to him in the right of his mother.,Huefcar, the eldest son of Guayanacapa, succeed ing to the hereditary dominions of his father, in. sifted upon Atabaliba's surrendering the kingdom of Quito, promising to assign him an equivalent elsewhere; which the other absolutely refused, of fering, however, to pay him homage for the crown, though it was his own, not only by right of birth, but by the tenor of his father's will; but his offer was rejeaed.,In consequence of this dispute, armies were raised on each side, and those very formidable ones, between which an engagement ensued, that lasted with great and repeated slaughter, for upwards o three days; the forces of Atabaliba being at length defeated, and he himself taken and imprisoned however, while his guards were immersed in re joining and revelry, subsequent to their victory, he found means of breaking a hole through the wall o the bouse wherein he was confined, by which h made his escape, and presented himself once agai,amonj
among his people; telling them, that by an immortal assistance he had Bern changed ito a 'serpent, and under that form had evaded the vigilance of his keepers the report of this miracle was soon spread among the natives of Quito, and had. such an effect upon them (for superstition and credulity was never any where more firmly rooted) that every body took up arms in his defence, and, he soon saw him self master of a body of forces much more considerable than ever, wherewith he marched against his brother, who, he was informed, was oh the road to seek him with a most powerful army. This report induced him to send two of his bed generals, with some light armed troops, to reconnoitre Hus efcdr's strength ; and there, as they drew near his camp, were obliged to strike out of the high road, to avoid being discovered.,Huefcar, to flun the noise and bustle of his ar my, happened, unluckily for him, with some of his chief courtiers and principal officers, to have taken the same road'; when Atabaliba's men per ceiling the royal standard, and guessing tie true slate of the case, resolved now to make a bold push for concluding the war: wherefore they marched down, surprized, and routed this body of troops, and took the inca himself prisoner; who would have been soon set at liberty by his main army, had he not been obliged-to order it to retire; those who de gained him, threatening otherwise to cut off his head; assuring him, they would afterwards die up on the spot, to the lait man, being determined not to surrender : at the same time observing, that he need be under no apprehensions from his confine ment, since all that Atabaliba required, was per mission to-enjoy the kingdom of Quito as his vassal ; which being secured to him, he was too generous to offer to. detain him.,K4 On
.:-. ,i$~ his he made a signal to his army to halts.' .ayving sent for the principal officers, ordered . :: !1,~' :to draw Poss the forces to Cuzco, the place . :~of the utica's residence; which command was im. >-^i wtrdiatelyobeyed.,C H A P. IV. - Pizarro's aid thirsted by the tcntending.part s; re. '-receives on embassy from Atabalibs: sOne traditionary old prophecies about the .spaniards: Pizarro is 'introduced to, and discourses. with Atabaliba; Iy whom he is visited in his camp some consists arise, 'in zrhich the Spaniards fall on the natives, and hae the pe rice prifcnr an irlane of Pizar. ro s plildcal ingratitude Hu feciarput to death privately 'Ferdinand Pizarro sets out for Spain; itabaliba'sfpeech to him at parting: the occasion cf that prince's fall. T Things were thus circumstanced when reentered Peru, and was first solicited by some compassionate noblemen to assisi Huefcar; to whom he answered in general terms, that he was on hi march to assist the distressed, and see justice impartially administered: after which he was honoured with a solemn embassy from Atabaliba, desiring his friendship and alliance; which determined him to visit that prince at Caxamalca, where he then was.,In their way thither, the Spaniards suffered ex pensively, marching over a parched, barren desart, for upwards of twenty leagues; after which they found themselves in a rich fertile country, where they were abundantly refreshed, and then continued their journey with more satisfaction. They
They were Coon after met by other deputies from Atabaliba, who presented to Pizarro, on'the part: of the inca, a pair of gold buskins richly ornamented,' and bracelets of the same metal, sumptuously adorn ed with emeralds and other precious stones; which, it was signified to him, he was to wear at his hav ing an audience of Atabaliba, who by those marks would know him. These deputies presented him, besides, with many other valuable presents, and brought with them great plenty of provisions, of which the army flood much in need : besides which, there was a politeness and ceremony in the behaviour of the chief of the embaffy,.who was him self of the blood of the incas, that contributed great ly to elevate the Spaniards-for they implied all there proceedings to the fear they had impressed on the minds of the people, in which they were partly right; for they certainly flood in awe of them, not so much from notions of their strength and valour, as from a religious motive, imagining them descendants of the fun.,We have before made some-trifling observations on the credulity of the people; and it is necessity to take notice of something more of that fart that prevailed amongst them, greatly to the advantage or the Spaniards.,There was an old tradition universally believed by them, that the elder son of one of their incas, who had lived many ages before, had seen a'firange kind of spirit, who called himself Viiachoca, or cf spring of the fun, whose dress and appearaince.wa. very different from that of the Peruvians.; fr *whereas these have no beards, this phantom had one that was very long; his garment was of a very: unusual make, and he led a strange kinds animal ib his hand; a likeness of which the prince had never seen in life. This fable walked foi roitgl,K 5 .- .:- upon
upon the people, and was so generally received as a truth, that they no sooner saw a bearded Spaniard, clothed differently from themselves, and holding a horse, than they cried out, " Virachoca, or the " son of the fun, is arrived :" besides, it was re ported, the late inca Guayanacapa had prophesied a little before his death, that his empire was near a fall, and would in a short time become the pro. party of a bearded race of aliens. And, whoever considers deliberately, must be forced to allow, that there reports impressing a weak-minded people, joined to the-dissensions between the two brothers, must have facilitated prodigious theconqueftsof Pizarro.,W'hten they came to Caxamalca, they found that Atabaliba had retired to a place at a small distance from it, whither the general sent his brother Ferdinand Pizarro, along with Ferdinand Soto, in qua. lit of ambafladors.,They were introduced into the royal pretence v with great pomp and decorum, and were struck with astonishment, as well as filled with rapture, 2z the wealth and magnificence that every where blazed around them.,As soon as the Spaniards approached Atabaliba, who was seated in a chair of massy gold, they saluted him after the Spanish fashion, with which seem ing well pleased, he role and embraced them i when a golden chair being brought for each, they sat and were served with perfumed liquors, in which he Fledged them, by two maidens of the royal blood; the manner in which the inca drank to them, as they were told, by their interpreter, who was a mos miserable one, was a peculiar mark of his efleem.,When this ceremony, which was accompanied with a collation of fruit, was over, Ferdinand made a long speech, in which he told the emperor that,Francis
Francis Pizarro, a very famous general, was come, as ambassador r'to him from the ,high-priest of the' Christian church and from Charts V.; the most po tent emperor in, the world, to point out to him the right road to heaven, and make overtures of friend ihip.-,To this the inca made, as-they supposed,. a pa thetis reply, as it drew tears from the eyesof those' who understood him and concluded with':telling: him, that he would come, the following day to the quarters of their general, and hold-a personal con terence with him. They could not'colled much more from his discourse, and from the lame, nay,. nonsensical manner in which their interpreter ex planned to them what the, inca had said; they had' some reason to think that he had received bu: a poor explanation of the address made him by, Ser disant Pizarro,. This interpreter's name was Phillipillo,.or Little Phillip, so called from the meanness of his origin, which lone forth in his intellects :. he was one of those whomwe have mentioned Pizarro. to have in tended educating for an interpreter, and one more' stupid he could not. have chosen Francis-Pizarro having intelligence of his visit, divided his cavalry. into three parties, of twenty men each; for his whole number of horses was-but sixty, and these he posted behind an old wall, that their sudden appear ance might have the stronger effet, himself waiting the coming of Atabaliba, who-approached with'' sixteen thousand men, at the: head of an hundred foot drawn up in battle array the figure of father Vincent, de Valverda, who' advanced from the Spaniards, with a cross in one hand, and his breviary in the other, to meet the emperor,. surprised him extremely.; however, he re civet him.with great respect, and listened attend lively to a long harangue, wherein the father preach-,K 6 ed
ed-sup the universality and truth o( the roman-catho. hic religion,, the benefits of.the redemption.by Jesus Christ, the great power the pope derived, from St. Peter, and the vast extent of Charles V.'s monarchy; to all which he entreated him to submit, left the Spaniards should let loose upon him plagues equal to those, God allowed to be poured upon the harden ed Pharaoh.,Though a dissertation of this sort, upon fubjeas which, as the inca had never before heard of, it was impossible for him to understand, muff have worn almost the appearance of nonsense; yet, how much more ridiculous must it seem when delivered through a channel of such ignorance and barbarity .as Philippics ? However, the inca made some sort of reply, which was delivered to the friar by the hame pero,. in such tens that he could not;pof- fib!y divine their meaning-thus, a. scene of con. fusion between there two people ensued, which was increased by a tumult, caused by. some Spaniards, who fell to plundering a consecrated idol very richly ornamented, in which they were at fist opposed by the Indians, till their emperor, whose command is to them equal to a divine law, cried. out, that they should do nothing to offend the children of the fur. At the noise of the tumult, father Vincent, running in haste to appease it, dropped his cross and breviary; which being perceived,. by: some of. the perfidious Spaniards, trampled under foot, they cried out, " An insult on Christianity ." on which the house suddenly made their appearance, bearing down all before them, the poor Indians falling tame sacrifices to their treachery, without making the least resistance, to the amount of five thousand Pizarro himself was the first that laid hold of th( litter in which Atabaliba was born,*whom he drag gad with him to the ground, receiving from one o his followers a. cut upon his hand at the fame.time,whicl
VÃ³LII~~~~~~~~,r-~~~~~~~~- LJ/ie ntj Stab aibha AezÂ,7
which was intended, for the emperor; 'nor was there a drop of Spanish blood besides spilt 'at this seene of unimpassioned slaughter, of calm, cool villainy which was practised on the 3d of May, 15i33, a day kept sacred by the roman catholic church, in honour of finding the cross of Christ,' after its hav ing been many years buried. . ' ', .The Spanish writers differ very much-in 'their accounts of this barbarous transaCtion ',.itstf^ ot their subtilest pen can remove the-fain 'ia^s'iefleift- ed upon Pizarro and his followers; and; indeed tIpbx the Spanifh name i' general. , '-,Herrera, a Spanish author, whose history oft '. Indies has gained considerable reputation, informs us, that the Spaniards were obliged to :a' thus ins their own defence,' Atibalibacha4ing :buoyed them up a long time with good words, that he might the more securely betray themii'',for which purpose ,he: had ordered his van-guard, at 'a certain fiigal,?to seize on the Spaniards, they-beingfecretly arintd for that end, and bri gin gig .with them creeds and:' chains; to bind: those whom: they (hould;t'are-for' servitude-Aceordig'to this ecuns'tW, Pti. ra ' a- ' ed. confidently with self-preservation, b' ret-of the first laws of-nature, in his attack upon the Indians.,Vega, on the other hand, .says, that-Atsb4libh, for the-beginning, impressed with ant ane,.- from. imagining the 'Spaniards children of' the shin and the per fons pointed. out in the. prophecy ,we haVe' mentioned, behaved to then with alltthe iefpef'e9:. possible, declaring; that he looked upon 'izatro as an ambassador. fromnheaven, to wlhof commiAnds'it was ordained .thatlhe:-ioild .ubmilin ever y thing And the faiipe; Aie - 'it is-that affirms, that when the Spaniards attacked the Indians, 'without any, provocation, the inca forbade them-to oppose, .even though he himself 'were fact-iced, that he quietly' submitted to his fate, reprimanding-these who croud-;,ed.
ed round his chair, as it were to assisi ,him, several of whom were slaughtered in the attempt to relieve him.,We:fbhal not pretend to affirm which of these is the true account; we shall only take notice that Herbert, for the hpoour of his country would en. devour to palliate, if possible, the barbarities of the Spaniards, while we have rome room to believe that .Vega, who was by birth a Peruvian, and descended from the blood-royal, would endeavour-to remove any odium,, as distant as possible, from the region of his nativity : but we are rather-inclined to side with-the latter, from considering, that,. bad Ata- bahia been so treacherous and cunning as the for mer represents him, he would scarcely have allow. ed the Spaniards to marches without molestation, so far as Caxamalca, when there were so many con lenient situations for cutting. them oft to a man, in the road through-which they passed, to reach it;. nay, and what makes this more incredible.is, that. had the Indians been prepared for any thing of an; assault, they would not have fallen fo,tamely asit.is certain they did, without striking a blow ,Pizarro having removed Atabaliba to.his head quarters, took, a view of the spoils of the field, con rising of vast variety of gold and silver utensils, the jewels, ornaments and wardrobe of the inca, and: his principal officers, together withstand of the women of quality, and some of. the mamaconds or. consecrated virgins taken prisoners.,'I he next day he sent out a detachment to plunder the camp, where he found an immense quantity of riches, notwithstanding that the Peruvians, who were on the spot, had removed three. thousand loads of gold and silver.,He now ordered a proclamation to be published, setting forth that the inca. was alive, and all were at liberty, that chose it, to lender him the usual,service:;
service this he did. to encourage them not to con real or carry off more treasure,; audit. had.the de sired effet; for many of the chief courtiers came in to attend upon their prince, bringing with them valuable presents; and Pizarro ordered that the inca, i whom he kept nevertheless in, fetters, should have the enjoyment of his women, and be served with the same order and decorum as before he was a pri. sooner. He seemed to, bear this turn of fortune very patiently, but was sometimes angry with his chains perceiving the fondness of his new masters for gold and silver, and being very desirous of liberty, he made them an offer of filling a large room with those metals, as high up as an ordinary man could reach his hand; a proposal which, though they at first doubted, they at length accepted of: and ac accordingly, there was a small party of Spaniards sent with some of his attendants to Cuzco and other ci. ties, to bring in the promised treasure-about this time Almagro arrived, in very bad health, at St. Michael's from CapeFrancifco, into which place he had been driven by contrary winds, and had lost by fatiguing marches, bad weather, and a worse country, about forty of his men, hav ing had but one hundred and fifty at first. Here he was informed of Pizarro's vast success; and, fearing that he would refuse him his dividend of the treasures, he consulted with his officers, whe. ther they should not proceed, in quest. of some new discovery independent of him; a faithful account of which deliberation was dispatched by Almagro's secretary, who bore his master no good-will, to Pizarro; upon which he immediately sent several very obliging messages to Almagro, inviting him to a conjunction, and assuring him of his integrity; at the same time observing to him that there were some people, who, with a view to their own advantage,,endeavoured
endeavoured to sow dissensions between them, again which he entreated rim to be on his guard; as ad. fitting them to take any effect, must certainly end in the ruin Js one, if not of both of them, as well as the destruction of their enterprise: and, to sup. port this advice, he sent him proofs of the treacle. ry of his secretary, whom Almagro instantly caused to.be hanged up.,There was an' ingratitude in this last article, which throws an additional blemish on the clara. ter of Pizarro, whom it is impossible to excuse; however, there was great policy in his conduct up. on the whole, since the forces which he-had with him were not alone sufficient to complete the con. guest of Peru; and had Almagro set up against him, it might have given new strength to the Indians, and ended not only in depriving him of his plunder, but in overturning their scheme, and destroying them both this reinforcement made. Atabalibaflill more so vicious about his liberty; judging very wisely, that the insolence of the Spaniards wouldincreafe with their strength: besides; some of the Spanish officers who had accompanied his messengers to Cuzco to bring his ransom, had had a conference with the imprisoned Huefcar, who informed them of his brother's cruelty and usurpation, and promised reward .them much more magnificently than Ata- bahia could'poffibly do, provided they, who he un de-flood were-corne to do justice to ail, would re heare him. .sos there overtures Atabaliba having received in formation, be determined on the death of his bro ther; but, left the Spaniards should, from his per penetrating such a sae openly, take occasion to con dein himself to die, ih resolved to found Pizarro's inclination upon the fuibije; which he did, by in forming him, with great affection of grief and,g 9 .concern,
concerns that his.bhrother had been murthered in 'confinement byb his keepers .which piece of. news had very little effet upon Pizarro, .wJo only slight Iy observed upon it, " That it was the fortune " of war, some fell by the sword, some were " made prisoners, and each who ventured should "' be satisfied with his fate." It was not without great pleasure that Atabaliba found Pizarro fo-little moved at this accident, hand, in consequence of misbehaviour, he immediately dir Â·dtched private orders for Huefcar's death , which were straight fulfilled, though in what manner is doubtful: some writers affirming, that he was drowned; others, that his body was cut into small bits, that his rubens might not-pay to it the same honours they. usually do to their dead inca's. It was reported, that, before he fell, he addressed himself thus to the murderers: " Tis true my "reign has not been very long; but, in death I " have this comfort, that he whose cruelty thus " bounds it, who scruples not wading to a throne "through the brood of his brother, and his lawful "prince, shal! be disappointed in his aspiring views, " and survive me but a very short time.",In some time after, the treasure intended for Ata- bahia's ransom arrived; but Pizarro falling short in his hopes of the quantity, was informed that there remained much more behind, iii the temple es the Invisible God, whither he dispatched his three brothers, and some of Atabaliba's officers in. search of it, but they could find no more than a sum amounting to ninety thousand crowns value, be sides what the soldiers embezzled: the priests who were warned of the avarice of the Spaniards, and had heard of their treating irreverently some other temples, having previously carried away above four hundred loads of gold, silver and jewels, which they,buried
buried in the earth, or at least conveyed so far of, that they never fell into the hands of the Spaniards.,About this time Almagro arrived in the neigh. boyhood of Caxamalca, whom Pizarro received with the strongest marks-of affection and esteem; giving him a very satisfactory share of his booty, and distributing one hundred thousand ducats among the men that accompanied him: and now Pizarro, having deduced the emperor's fifths, divided the rest of his spoil, which was prodigious, among his own officers arid men, feigning to pay a very sing. lar respect to any thing that appeared like merit; and it is said, the meanest foot-soldier in his service at this time, received for his share two thousand pound sterling, though the whole that was divided did not amount to more than one fifth of Atabali- ba's ransom; and Pizarro reserved to himself the inca's golden chair, with some other valuable cu. riofities.,Ferdinand Pizarro was chofen.as the fittest per. son to wait on the emperor Charles V. with his (bare of the treasure, and an account of their pro feeding: several private soldiers insisted upon being left at liberty to go along with him, which was violently opposed by Almagro and most of the council, as it tended to weaken their little army considerably; but this opposition was over-ruled by Pizarro, who judiciously observed, that permitting them to go, was one of the most political steps that could be taken; for, as their meanest soldiers departed so very rich, they might be certain of gaining ten men for one that they should lose," You rejoice," said Atabaliba to Ferdinand, when he came to take leave of him, having a peculiar refpea for each other, " that you are re ,' turning to your native soil; but for me, who, " when you are gone, have no friend left among ' your countrymen, it is a melancholy prospect," the
t the newly arrived leader, (meaning Almagro) , wherefore I know not, owes me no good-will; " and the man you call treasurer, regards me with " an evil eye: let us then take our last farewel; i' for these cruel people, I see it plainly, will not '" allow me to live, to welcome your return." He was not wrong in his prognostic; Almagro had, since the first assurance he received of the treasures of this country, imagined, that, were Data' bahia put out of the way, they would be the more easily seized upon; and, though Pizarro at first treated this proposition with the contempt it deserved yet, in a very short time, resentment induced him to countenance what honour taught him to ab lor. He was incensed at Atabaliba's teeming to slight him; and a short account of the reason of this will not, we hope, be deemed tedious. The cruelty and ambition of Atbaliba- did not hinder his being wise, penetrating and curious; he was very anxious in his inquiries after the customs and manners of the Spaniards; but what particularly puzzled-him was their writing and reading, not being able for a long time to find out, whether these were natural or acquired gifts. In order to be satisfied of this particular, he asked one of the Spanish soldiers, if he could write the name of God on his thumb-nail, which, in consequence of the'foldier's answering in the affirmative, he begged that he would do. This inscription Ata- bahia shewed to many of the Spaniards, all of whom explained it; so that he began to think that there were indeed divine and innate gifts ; when un fortunately Pizarro falling in his way, to him he also produced his nail, demanding from him the sense of the inscription: but Pizarro, who could neither write nor read, blushing, turned off short from him, without resolving the.quelfion. Thence forward the inca inferred there were the acquisitions,of
of study or intrusion; and, while it lessened his opinion of the greate's of the Spaniards in general, gave him but-a poor impression of the general, whose origin, he was persuaded., must have-been but mean, since-ie was exceeded in knowledge by the poorer of his soldiers ,The dislike, or rather disease, that he ever after shewed to Pizarro, laid the foundation of his.ruini which was compleated b, the villainy of Phillips. lo, who, having taken it in his head to fall in love with one of the inca's wives, was treated with good deal of contempt, and a complaint preferred against him to Pizarro, which was but little attend. ed to: upon this he accused the inca of plotting, and equally contriving the destruction of all the Spaniards; which flory,. groundless and ridiculous as it must necessarily appear to a man of common sease, was laid hold of by the two generals, both foes to the unhappy inca; and w th leveratlo'tr trivial matters formed into articles of accusation; in consequence of which he was tried.'found guilty, and condemned tube burned: but this.fentence was graciously changed into wrangling, on his consent. ing to be baptized, which he dicto avoid so horrible a death as burning; for it is a question if he knew one article of the Christian faith ' but however, he was baptized, and that was sufficient to make him a Christian in the eye of enthusiasm.,Itwas advanced .gainst him, amongst other things that he had usurped. the throne of Peru, being him" self a bastard; that he had caused his brother, the lawful monarch, to be imprisoned; that he was an idolater;. that he had. permitted his furies to be sacrificed;' that he had waged unnecessary wars; that he made away with the public treasures; that, since he had been the Spaniards prisoner, he had en courage the Indians to rebel against them, &c.,Thus
Thus there was an attempt made at giving the colour justice to ole of the most illegal and bar barons combinations that could possibly be imagin ed; which, to their honour be it spoken, was violently opposed by most of the persons of family or distinction in the service, who publicly declared, that his kindnesses to them merited a better return from the Spaniards i and that-they saw no sight they had to condense. a fovereigt'ir'iicc, whom, if they intended to aÃ³. fairly by SSit7 they ought to send, together with the articles' f- his impeachment, to Spain, and let him be disposed of according to the emperor's pleasure. ?:. Notwithstanding this, Pizarro and his council proceeded as they pleased, until they had carried matters to the extremities we have already mentioned and poor Atabaliba was no more an objet of disturbance. Father Vincent, who was their religious tool dur ing the whole process, prostituted, in this affair, not only his character as a priest, but reflected dip grace on the whole Christian church, by aain/g in such a manner as ought to'make his memory always be held in detestation.,It has been asserted, but the assertion has not been supported by proof; that the Indians insisted upon the-death's Atabaliba, to retaliate that of his brother Hueiair. T hat this is but a very lame defence for Pizarro's conduce, appears from his not proclaiming the late inca's brother emperor; a shep that would have saved his' credit in some measure: besides, after this, wefind the Peruvians every where laing against the Spaniards offensively, which they had not done before.,C H A P,
CH A P. V. One of Atabaliba's generates up for himself: Pa.,lu, a brother of the inca, joins Pizarro: a ntr. fpe, of the affairs of Peru: Manco Capac ac. knowledged nea of Peru by the Spaniards: Padre de AJvarado, a companion of Cries, enters Per; but is prevailed upon to retire to his government ia Mexico: Pizarro lays the foundation of the city of Lime, as alma of Truxillo: Almagro Ash very im. prudently, but is sion brought to reason: the mind of Potofj discovered. A After the inca's death, Rumnavi, ones his generals, who commanded the rear-guard of his army, seized upon the province of Quito, and put to death all such officers as he suspected to have been firmly attached to his late malter: while Quill quis, another of his generals, who had been Hues. car's executioner, with fill a better army, attempt. ed to secure part of the province of Cuzco; but far from shewing any spirit, fled before a very few Spa. niards that were sent in pursuit of him; and badly murdered a few others, whom he made a shift to fur prize this general, hoping thereby to support his fu priority, endeavoured to persuade Paullu, younger brother of Huefcar, whom he contrived to get into his hands, to assume the reins of the empire; which this young prince gallantly refused, telling him, he scorned to ere his grandeur on the ruin of his country that he thought it the more preferable to be a good man than a bad monarch, and he despised an authority devolving to him at the expence of his fa mile, to which justice as yet gave him no right, his,brother
brother Manco Capac, who was fill living, being the true heir. A reply thus brave and unexpected had such an effect upon Qu ifquis, that though he had this prince in his power, he allowed him to retire and join Francis Pizarro, to whom he behaved with the same greatness of soul; telling him, that if, as he proclaimed, he came among them to be the ad ministration of justice, he would shew himself such, by declaring for his brother, who had already a. good army, and, if supported by him, would be able once again to give a luRfre to the Peruvian throne. This had the desired effect; for though Pizarro had ordered a son of Atabaliba to be proclaimed in ca, issuing, in his name, such orders as belt promoted the Spanish interest ; this representation of royal ty dying soon, he found it more to his advantage to join Manco Capac, whom he caused to be pro claimed inca, and assisted at his being inaugurated, in the same manner as his predecessors had been; at the same time promising, that he would shrilly observe the treaty signed by Francis de Chaves, while, for his part, the inca gave Come hopes of his inclining to Christianity: but for an illustration of these transactions we muss go a little back. Atauchi, a brother of Atabaliba, having got to gather a good deal of treasure to purchase his ran hom, was advancing for that purpose, towards Cax- amalco, when he received an account of his death, as also that the Spaniards were marching off to the capital city of Cuzco, with a view of establishing their power till more firmly, by taking possession of that place being extremely irritated at his brother's murder, he immediately raised a body of about six thousand men, and with them lay in ambush upon the road through which the Spaniards were to pals, making,Co
fb successful a sally, that several of them: were kil. ed and-taken prisoners; .amon g the lather was S'! echo de Cellar, who had-drawn up the process against the late unfortunate inca, and attended at his execution; Atauchi had athirst resolved to have sacrificed them all to the manes of his brother, had not Quisquis, who had joined him-very happily fallen upon another body of Spaniards, seventeen of whom he killed, and made several prisoners, arnong whom were Francisco de Chaves, and Her nando de Haro, who had openly protested against the usage of Atabaliba ;' and Atauchi, out of gratitude to-these, forgave the ref-;-.-Sancho de Cruel. lar-excepted, whom he ordered to be strangled on the same spot at Caxamalca, whereon Atabaliba, under his infpe-aion, had expired this generous Indian not only gave his Spanifh prisoners their lives, but took care that such as were wounded should be cured, dismissing them with considerable presents, on Francisco de Chaves signing the following conditions, viz," That all acts of hostility should be forgiven on '" both sides; that peace (hould for the future be ' inviolably maintained between the Indians and " Spaniards; that the latter should allow Manco " Capac, the true heir, to mount the: throne of " Peru; that they should set at liberty such Indians as they held in chains; that, for the future, Â· they should not fetter them; but be satisfied wither' their attending as menial servants, and not a " saves; that the laws of Peru, so far as they dd t not cash with the Christian religion, should be " allowed to be in full force; that'this treaty sould " be ratified by Francis Pizarro, and his sovereign " the emperor of the Romanc."',It was granted to the Spaniards, that they should have free exercise of their religion; lands afligfne,them
them for their subsistence, and untaxed liberty of trading had the Spaniards aged in the least upon the principles of honour or virtue, nay eve 'on those of common discretion, they had-observed trial this treaty: in consequence of which, all Peru had in time become Christians without blood-shed. But pride, avarice, and luxury shut the ear of reason. However, there consequences we shall but slightly touch upon, as we are writing a history of the first discovery of Peru; and not an account of all the subsequent tranfaaions.,Francisco Pizarro, by ratifying this agreement, not that he intended to keep it, made all the forces under the command of Manco Capac, whom he acknowledged inca, his friends: besides which the inhabitants of Cuzco who had fled froth thei dwellings, were encouraged to return back; with a better opinion of the Spanish lenity and jus time than before. Indeed there was a necessity for this conduct; because Rumnavi and other generals had assembled an army in the southern provinces, and possessed themselves of Quito, which they abandoned on the approach of Sebastian Belalcazar, who was sent with a snail detachment against them, having first set fire to the late inca's palace, in the great hall of which there was consumed prodigious wealth, which had for that purpose been thrown into it.,Pizarro's power was moreover threatened with opposition from other quarters; so that wisdom and policy obliged him-to ensure some friendship. The brave Don Pedro de Alvarado, 'Cortes's gallant companion, of whom we have heretofore largely spoken in the account of Mexico, had landed at Puerto Viejo, with an army of five hundred men, the greater part of which wa well mounted VOL. 11. L and
and confined of men of birth, who having before experienced hardships, were as good troops as any in America; and were in hopes of sharing in the wealth of Peru. These, having refreshed them. selves at Fort St. Michael, continued their marc towards Quito-but were met, in the valley of Rio baba, by a large body of troops sent by Pizarro under command of Almagro, who had joined Be. lalcazar.,A battle seemed now almost inevitable, when both the generals, seeing how destructive it mush bet them let victory side either way, entered into amu. tuas accommodation, and a private treaty was fig). ed between them, whereby Alvarado bound him. self, in consideration of his being paid one hun. died thousand pesoes of gold, to retire to his go government of Guatemala with all his forces, and never either attempt or encourage an invasion into Peru, during the lives of Pizarro or Almagro,,And that the forces of Alvarado might not be dissatisfied, there was a form of treaty published, in which it was stipulated that each party should be left at liberty to prosecute their separate discoveries to their own advantage; by which means, Alva. ado had secured a footing for such of his men a should chuse, on his departure, to slay behind him, equal to those of Pizarro.,Things being thus amicably fettled, Alvarado and Almagro joined forces, intending to march Cuzco, where Pizarro was then quartered, to pro. cure his ratification of the treaty.,It is necessary for us to take notice, that the peace between Manco and Pizarro was concluded after Almagro had left Cuzco to go in search of Aivarado; consequently at this time he was totally Ignorant of it: nor had the confirmation of it yet reached Quisquis, who was encamped near Caxa.,malca,
malta, in expectation of it, with a good army, which he was then ready to disband. The two generals seeing To numerous a body of forces, thought it incumbent upon them to make an attack, which they accordingly did; and gained at firil considerable advantage, for Quisquis had not the least suspicion of such proceedings: how ever, he secured a retreat to rome neighbouring rocks, the steep access of which he defended with undaunted courage, rolling down huge stones upon the assailants with such good aim, as to kill several of them, particularly the horse; thus he defended himself till night, under cover of which he retired to the hills; but his rear being the next day attacked onthe banks of a river, after maintaining a very difficult pass for many hours, secured a safe retreat higher up the country, whence in a few days. after he made a sally with some success; and, not withstanding he lot very considerably, did not seem dispirited, having killed above fifty Spaniards. The coming of Pizarro put an end to there feuds; he had marched to meet.Alvarado on the road, under pretence of paying him the greater refpef, but in reality to prevent his approaching nearer Cuzco, left the vast riches of the place should tempt him to infringe his articles, and slay longer than he had stipulated. Pizarro, before he left Cuzco, had taken a formal leave of the inca Manco Capac, telling him, he was going to meet Tome of his countrymen, with whom he was to settle the peace upon a firm footing; and recommending his two brothers to hisprotecion during his absence. The inca, in return, assured him that he wished him a prosperous journey; and that his kindred should be as dear to him as his own brethren ; at the same time that he dispatched messengers all the way through z which
which Pizarro was to march, ordering his subjea to treat as their friends him and his people pizarro, on his arriving at Caxamialca, had a meeting with the Indian chiefs, whom he informed of the treaty subsisting between Manco and him, assuring them, that his countrymen had been en timely ignorant of it, or they had never fallen upon them; and promising that thenceforward all hoi cities should cease then marching forward, in the valley of Pain Camac, he met Alvarado, whom he embraced in the tenderest manner; not only agreeing to perform the articles stipulated by Almagro, but making hia present of twenty thousand pesoes of gold more, by way of retaliating him for the expence he had been at in marching to his assistance with tho persons who joined him, and quitted Alvarado' service, there being a good number of them; be sides which he gave him several beautiful emeralds, turquoise, and utensils of gold, curiously wrought for his own private use, at the same time com landing all his officers to look upon him', turin his ft:v, as their commander,,Alvarado, having sufficiently rested and refreshed himself, took his leave of the two general, well fais fled both with the treatment he had met with, ani the treasures he had acquired, retiring to the sea coast, where he embarked on board his owns-hips having brought two with him for Guatemala ranch more thinly attended than when he left it.,Almagro went back to Cuzco, and Pizarro Il behind to search out a proper place for founding 1 new city, which he at length did on the banks o tre little river Lima, in twelve degrees thirty mine south latitude, one hundred and twenty miles we from Cuzco. The first stone of this city waylaid the 6th day of January; 1534, wherefore hecate it the city of Kings, or Villa de los Eyes; but,h
References . Â· '2 WÂ· 72 LoaGct MAdh~ cS ,o. raL,;r.~~~~~~aci~~~~~~t. '' :~~~~~~~~~~B~~~~cÂ· i~~~~ a.~~~c~~Sunun oroiA~V E,lo.3lr c~~~~~~~~~iz~~~~i~~~o~i 9 14ie~~~~a. rX~~~~rrar2L~~~~~. ? ~~~i' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ s~~i,b~~~~a.~~~~~a~~~~d~~ ~ d' cqiwsl,2 ~~~~~a/e ~~-Â·r; ddk~~~~~~~~~ir~~~~~~irrcnrripr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,
has since been much better known by the name of Lima. Having fettled some of his people here, he portioned the neighbouring lands among them, and allotted a sufficient number of Indians to each, toaffift in the planting. He proceeded to a spot about three hundred miles farther north on' the south-sea coast, where he founded another city,' which 'he called Truxillo, after the, name of his ibirth-place.,While FrancisPizarro was thus wisely employed, he received. news'that his brother Ferdinand had been as successful at the court of Spain as could be wished; having procured for him the title of marquis De los Atabillos, and a large increase of territory, which-was to be distinguished-by the name of New Castile ; also that he had obtained for Almagro the posh of marshal of Peru, and a government two-hundred, leagues in extent from north to south, independent of-pizarro's, and named New Toledo.,,The report of'thefe.matters reaching the ears of Almagro, before any authentic accounts had arrived, he shook off the title of Pizarro's lieutenant and assumed-that of governor of Cuzco, un der pretence that it-was out of Pizarro's jurisdiction which he affirmed extended only two hundred leagues from the line: in this usurpation he was opposed by-Pizarro's brothers, John and-Gonfalo; the consequence of which was an open rupture and there being many partizans'on each side, several skirmishes ensued, and some lives were los1.,The news of these dissensions soon reached Pi varro, whom we-hall hereafter often distinguish by the title of the marquiss, in his new town of Truxillo: who, seeing the immediate necessity of his pretence among them, without interrupting the settlement of his new colony, in which he left all,L 3. his
his Spaniih followers, committed himself without any attendants to the care of the Indians; who bore him on their shoulders in a hammock, relieving one another at proper stages, and travelling so ex. expeditiously, that he entered Cuzco before there was the least suspicion of his approach here he soon brought Almagro to reason, con. winced him of his error. assured him, that if, on the arrival of their different commissions from Spain, he should dislike what was allotted to him, he would divide with him the government of Peru; and, at the same time, observed to him, that as by all accounts the territory to the southward of Cuzco, called Chili, was still richer in gold and Silver than Peru, he would consent to his marching, at the head of the best part of their united forces, to discover and possess itt hough the Spaniards endeavoured to keep fair with the Indians, as their assistance was still in many cases necessary to them, yet they awed them with troops in different places, strengthening Be lalcazar at Quito; while a large body marched to keep the inhabitants about the mountains of the Andes in subjection: and Almagro, with a considerable party, prepared for his southern expedition, on which he set out about the beginning of the year 535 ; the inca Manco, in hopes to bind the Spaniards thereby more strongly to his friendship, aiming him with fifteen thousand men under, the conduct of his brother Paullu, and Villachuma thigh priest of the Indians, whom we find men toned by the Spanifl historians under the name of Villahoma.,In this expedition the province of Charcas was first discovered, a country barren and inhospitable, which, tho' judged by Almagro not worth keeping, has since proved the most valuable acquisition made by the Spaniih power in America, as it con-stains
pains the rich mountains of Potofi, which have yielded more silver' than any other mines hitherto known chap. VI. ,lnagro goes upon a progress to Chili-meets with vast,hardjhips, lies many men: the good nature-and kindness of the Indians; he abandons this discovery, to usurp the government of Cuzco: the inca raises two hundred thousand men, and attacks Cuzco: john Pizarro killed: the inca files to the mountains Cuzco surrenders to Almagro, and he ob pains several advantages over Pizarro's people; with whom he has a meeting, and makes a treaty, which is broken by Pizarro; who causes him to be put to death. A LMAGRO Was informed of two passages Aft, into Chili, but both of them almost impenetrable the one being through a hot, sandy de sert, where his people must be prepared to encounter the severest attacks of heat and thirst; the other, though much shorter, infinitely more inconvenient, lying over prodigious high mountains crowned with eternal snow, so craggy as scarce to admit of being climbed, and so intensely cold, that the air was, at one season of the year only, tolerable alm agro chose the latter, because the shorter road, and persisted in his choice in spite owe representations of Paullu and the Indians; but he had reason to repent of this obstinacy, his men being obliged to remove the snow with their hands, mak ing thereby very short journeys, and soon consuming their provisions ; so that they sustained inconceivable distresses, losing above ten thousand Indians, and a hundred and fifty Spaniards, exclusive of,*L such.
such as lost their fingers and toes, notwithstanding the latter were clothed in a manner particularly warm after a tedious and toilsome march of more than six hundred miles, they arrived in Copayapu, a province lying in twenty-fix degrees south latitude, subjea to the inca of Peru, where, through the influx. once of Paullu, they were chearfully entertained; the inhabitants not only bringing them plenty of provision, but also, being informed of their fond ness for gold, making them presents to the amount of five hundred thousand ducats indeed the good nature and simplicity of the In. diana appeared in nothing more than their reads. ness to supply the Spaniards with this commodity, when they had discovered the estimation in which they held it; and so far did their complacency ex tend, that when they first arrived at Caxamalca, the poor Indians, observing their horses champing upon their iron-bits, believed 'that they fed upon provision of that solid nature, and therefore sup plied their mangers with bars of gold, which they thought would be more agreeable to them, from the liking their masters had to it.,Almagro found the authority of Paullu, whom he persuaded that he intended to annex Chili to the inca's dominions, of great service to him in his progress; being by that means received in many pacis with great cordiality, and only opposed in few; so that he might easily have established colo nies, as was afterwards done, in very advantageous situations, had not a sort of infatuation pointe( ail his views at Cuzco, where, notwithstanding al treaty, he was determined to rule; affirming frorr the commission, which he by this time had receiver from the king of Spain, that this city fell within hir jurisdiction. And this unhappy determination waX the final cause of his deftrudion.,Hi
His commission was brought him by Juan de Errata and Russ Diaz, who joined him with re crusts from Cuzco; having passed the Cordilleras, the road Almagro himself had come, with very lit tie fatigue, in the month of November, which is the summer of that climate, and the only season in which the passage is free. To pursue his darling project of presiding in Cuzco, Almagro. abandoned all his views upon Chili, and began his march northward; but his army, terrified at the remembrance of what they had be fore suffered in passing the Cordilleras, absolutely refused again to face them; wherefore he was forced to take his route thro' the desart, under co. ver of the hills, and bordering upon the sea-coast: here the Indians told him there was no water, but what was to be found in handing pools corrupted by the fun's heat, and even these eighteen, or per. laps twenty-four miles one from the other however, brachia's, or leather-bottles, were contrived to carry their water, and parties of In diana dispatched before the army, to drain the wells of the stagnated water, and leave the fresh at li betty to rise. These two expedients were of vast use to them in their march; so that they passed. these barren trans, with much less difficulty than it was at first imagined they should be able to do. Things in the mean time-fell into great confusion in Peru: the marquiss having retired to Li ma, upon rome business, the inca Manco finding; there were no thoughts of restoring him to his crown and power, as had been promised by the treaty of Caxamalca, made his escape from Cuzco, abusing the. liberty that Ferdinand Pizarro, who. was very much his friend, had given him, of going to a solemn festival held at Yucaya, four leagues from Cuzco where he laid the scheme of quickly 5 ailing:
raising three armies, and falling on Lima, Trux- illo, and Cuzco, at one and the same time these designs were intimated to Paullu, in the army of Almagro, then on his march through the de fart; but he being a man of strict honour, refused to join them at any rate, or to break faith with the Spaniards: in return for which conduct Almagro fa. luted him with the title of emperor, which he with reluctance accepted of, receiving it only that his country might not want a protector. It was mere chance that manifested this integrity of Paullu; for e conspiracy having been set on foot in Almagro's camp, against his life, Phillipillo, who was deeply engaged in it, at first accused Paullu of being the principal abettor of it; but this being very inconsistent with that prince's behaviour and conduct, Almagro ordered the interpreter to be tortured; on which he owned the generous deportment of Paullu, confessed that he had accused him wrong fully, and at the same time acknowledged that the articles he had formerly trumped up against Ataba. lib had no foundation in truth; on all which ac counts he justly suffered a molt ignominious dea thin the mean time MancoCapac assembled above two hundred thousand men, with whom, after hav ing cut off several Spaniards that he caught straggling about the mines, he laid siege to Cuzco, which was defended by a very frnall force, provided with a good train of artillery, and a few horses; however, he was often repulsed with very great slaughterhouse Indians having, in their first onset, gained possession of a very firing fortrefs,were not driven out of it in less than five or six days ; and John Pizarro, after having aced very bravely in an attack upon it, taking off his helmet to cool himself, was hit upon the temple by a stone, of which stroke he died in about three days, to the great regret of his party; for he was certainly the bravest of the brother's When
When the inca heard of Almagro's approaching Cuzco, he retired; and tho' Almagro endeavoured to persuade. him to a treaty, he absolutely declined it, resolving never more to hear of terms from people who had hitherto kept none with him.,He also took a shep, that must at first appear very . surprizing, and yet the reasons he gave in defence' of it, spoke him a politician; this was disbanding his army, and privately retiring to the mountains: and to such of his officers as shrove to dissuade him from it, by representing that no time could ever promise him more success than this, in which Al agro and Pizarro were at open variance, he an swerved, that notwithstanding all animosities, they would certainly make head against him, should he make a shew of opposing them; but it was time enough for him to return and declare his in mentions, when they were sufficiently weakened by mutual contention sto those who consider the hardship of collecting an army, this must seem a very injudicious. course; but it ought to be remembered, that so im elicit was the respect of the Indians for their so foreign, that, on the leash intimation 'of their ser vice being necessary to him, their voluntary assembling for his service was as quick, as their dispersion was sudden alm agro now appeared before the walls of Cuzco summoning the place to receive him as .governor according to the tenor of the royal commis sion; but the magistrates answering, that this was a point of too great consequence to be concluded upon at once, and that some time for deliberation was requisite, he, supposing it to be an excuse formed by Ferdinand Pizarro, that he might gain time, entered the city after night-fall, attacked that deputy governor's house, who refused to surrender, until Almagro ordered it to be set on, fire, which 6 forced:
forced out both him and his brother Gonfalo, who were quickly made prisoners after this exploit, Almagro summoned the ma. distract. whom he compelled to acknowledge him governor; at the same time appointing de Rajas his deputy the marquiss, who was fill at Lima, where he had no intelligence of these transactions, fearing, as he received no news from Cuzco, that the In diana might have come down upon his brothers, sent thither five hundred Spanish horse, command ed by Don Alonfo de Alvarado; under whom he appointed Pedro de Lerma, who, being an older officer, never forgave the preference given to Alvarez do: and the news of his discontent being conveyed to Almagro, they made a private agreement, in con sequence of which Lerina took the first opportunity of deserting Alvarado with a large body of men; whereupon the latter was vigorously attacked, and, after a flout resistance, his whole party routed, and himself taken prisoner; an event which had never happened, had .his men been obedient to his orders the troops which had deserted to Almagro upon this engagement were very nobly rewarded, and marshalled into a body, the command of which was given to Pedro de Lerma. And so much did it raise the spirits of the enemies of the Pizarross, that it was with great difficulty Almagro could preserve the lives of the two brothers, who were his prison hers i Organs, his lieutenant-general, and several other officers, insisting strongly on their being put to death the news of this defeat made a very deep im pression upon the heart of the marquiss; who find ing himself not firing enough to make head against Almagro, his whole force scarcely exceeding foul hundred men, resolved to try what policy could do: wherefore he sent deputies to Cuzco, to pro pose an accommodation j which Almagro, notwithstanding
sanding his friends urged that Pizarro would never adhere to a treaty, received with great civility, pro. missing an interview with the marquifs,wherein com missionary Should be chosen to settle their respective boundaries. Accordingly he marched out of Cuzco leaving therein a sufficient garrison, at the head of five hundred Spaniards and upwards, taking the road to Lima, and carrying Ferdinand Pizarro prisoner in his train; Gonfalo and Alvarado.being left in the town under the care of De Rajas, whose per son they found means to seize upon after Almagro's departure. Then they made their escape to Lima, accompanied by about sixty men, whom they had won to their interest, bringing along with them the deputy governor in fetters.,Organez and his partizans, upon the news of this escape, urged Almagro to revenge it by the death of his prisoner Ferdinand, a point they had labour ed hard at before; but it was a piece of cruelty. that he absolutely refused; and soon after met the marquiss at Mala, with twelve men on each side, to terminate their difference. It is affirmed by Some writers, that they embraced each other in the most friendly manner; but according to others, the deportment of Pizarro was proud and reserved: however, we are rather inclined to credit the for mer account, it being inconsistent with Pizarro's general character to a .so impoliticly, upon a crisis so very important and ticklish however, this conference was very suddenly broke off by one of Almagro's followers pushing abruptly into his presence, crying out, that he was betrayed; on which he took horse and rode off, leaving matters entirely unsettled this alarm was occasioned by the approach of Gonfalo with seven hundred men, which induced Organs also to advance with his troops, to repel, by force, the treachery he suspected in agitation.,Each
Each side by this rupture seemed ready for war, when the marquiss again found means to persuade Almagro to listen to terms; and a treaty was agreed upon, and sworn to on each side, whereby, among many other advantages, the possession of Cuzco was ceded to Almagro, untilthe decision of the emperor should be known; in consequence of which Ferdinand was set at liberty, promising upon oath. not to a& against Almagro; and a colony that had been lately planted by the latter at Circa, between Cuzco and Zangalla, in. fifteen degrees south latitude was removed the marquis had no sooner obtained the covet ed point of his brother's liberty, than he broke through the treaty-fending a notary and witnesses to summon Almagro to surrender Cuzco, and the places he had conquered, otherwise he must expect to be treated as a rebel by all the Spanish settle ments.,This dishonourable method of proceeding in Pi varro is the more inexcusable, as he had, by one of his own people, much about that time, received an express from court, whereby each governor was enjoined, under pain of the emperor's displeasure to keep quiet possession of such places as should, at the time of that messenger's arrival, own their respective jurisdiction; and, in case of supposing themselves injured, they were directed to appeal to the council of the Indies; but these or ders he thought fit to suppress.,Organez now upbraided Almagro for neglecting his advice, and he, being convinced of his error, though too late, heartily repented of it: however, he gave orders for securing Cuzco, and marched with his troops to the Salinas, so called from a fountain of brackish water there springing, not far from the banks of the Apulia, and a few leagues from Cuzco, where the marquiss's army, led by Gon.,falo0
fall, came up, and, after an engagement of two hours continuance, entirely defeated him; and Or ganez, after having behaved with great gallantry, growing faint with his wounds, accepted quarter from a person called Fuentez, who cruelly murdered him in cold blood ferdinand Pizarross was unhorsed in the heat of the engagement by Lerma, who at the same time upbraided him with his perjury; his armour, how ever, saved his life ; and Lerma being afterwards born down by force of Pizarross's people, was treacherously stabbed, but he recovered to be butcher ed in a more cruel manner alm agro, who was carried into the field in a lit ter, being too weak to sit a horse, finding his for ces defeated, retired to the citadel of Cuzco, whither he was pursued by Alvarado, to whom he was soon obliged to Surrendered was no sooner entirely in the power of his enemies, than Ferdinand determined to take re venge on him for his long imprisonment, and per laps afraid of his making head against the Pizarross again, for he-was not only brave but well-beloved, caused him to be accused of high-treason i for hav ing seized the city of Cuzco, made a secret treaty with the inca, encroached on the government con ferret by royal appointments upon Pizarross, and fought two battles against the forces of his sovereign, whereby much Christian blood had been shed, and the progress of the Spanish arms considerably re tarded.,For there offences, Almagro, marshal of Peru, was tried, convicted, and condemned to die, al though he insisted on appealing to the emperor Alvarado pleading strongly that his appeal should be admitted, and vainly attempting to sos ten Ferdinand's inflexibility, by representing the kindness with which Almagro had used them both,when
when they were his prisoners: nay, he himself ad dressed Ferdinand in the most persuasive and pitiable terms; he entreated him to remember the time had been when he had spared his life, in opposition to numbers who were bent upon his definition; to recollect the share he had in advancing the Pi varro's to their present glory, and subduing the fur rounding nations , he prayed him to consider, that, bowing under the weight of age and infirmities, a very short time must level him with the grave, in the common course of nature; for which aera, that he might be reserved, he conjured them-to take a retrospect of his conduct, when they would find he always befriended the Pizarross, and advanced the glory of his countryseat, alas, his entreaties were as ineffectual as the grateful interposition of Alvarado; for, in a very short time after sentence had been passed upon him, Ferdinand, under pretence that there was a design on foot to rescue him from prison, ordered him to be strangled, in the seventy-fifth, tho' some say only the sixty-fifth year of his age; after which the dead body was beheaded in a public square at Cuzco and lay most part of the day almost naked, ex posed on a scaffold, .without any body daring to bury it, lest they should thereby provoke his enemies, who were inhuman enough to pay no regard to its in torment, till a few poor Indians, who had been his servants, towards evening, wrapped it in a coarse sheet, and conveyed it to a church, where it was buried by the clergy under their high altar alm agro left behind him a natural son, by an Indian woman, whom, at his death, he bequeath ed to the care of James Alvarado ; who desiring Pizarross to evacuate so much of the country as he had always allowed to be under Almagro's go government, that he might take possession of it for the youth, was haughtily answered, that his. ga-severn ment
government was. now unbounded, and he knew of no body that had a right to insist on sharing it with him, since Almagro was no more: Alvarado, thus repulsed, made the best of his way to Spain, taking with him such evidences as were proper to support what he had a mind to represent at court chap. VII. The inca makes aslant against the Spaniards: Ferd;-,nand Pizarro imprisoned in Spain: the mines of Pctofi, how shared: the marquiss's cruelty to the followers of Almagro: a remarkableflory twelve of them : his death concerted at Lima: he is assassinated and all his attendants: summary of his character : ,inagro's fan proclaimed governor of Peru. A B O U T this time the inca Manco shrove to,make a push for driving out the invaders, and proved a considerable hindrance to their pro. griefs; for the Peruvians having, in a great mea sure, got the better of the terror impressed on them at first by fire arms and horses, were now able to make a stand against them; nor did there want lime instances of their driving their enemies before them: nay, it is certain, that above two thousand Spaniards found it much harder to keep the ground which they had conquered, than four hundred on ly had found in the conquer of it; and, it Teems indisputable, that had not some particular bodies of Indians been so infatuated as to adhere closely and faithfully to his interest, supplying him with provisions, discovering all the firing passes, and constantly giving him intelligence, Pizarro might have been driven from his acquisitions in the most disgraceful manner.,Measures
Measures of severity very often rather irritate than assuage civil dissensions, and this is evidenced in the death of Almagro; after which the faction against the Pizarross gathered strength daily; so that Ferdinand, who had been the chief cause of it, thought it best to retire to Spain, with all the gold that he could collect; for, from the clamours of the soldiery, he suspected there were some designs upon his life: but Alvarado had prepared for his re. caption as court, where he was arrested as soon as he arrived, and flung into prison; and, norwich. standing that Alvarado died in a short time after, not without suspicion of having been poisoned, his defence was so very weak, that he continued more than twenty years in confinement the mines of Potofi, in the province of Charcas, were the most valuable acquisitions made after Al agro's death, which the marquiss divided among the conquerors, having fire founded the city of La Plata, so named from its situation.,To his brother Ferdinand, then in Spain, he assigned a considerable portion of them; and also to his brother Gonfalo, who was engaged in sub during the inca Manco.,Gonfalo, who was governor of Quito, having driven the inca to the mountains, turned his thoughts to making new discoveries; for which pur. pose he marched well attended to the eastward, in order, if possible, to arrive at some knowledge of the breadth of America; and, notwithstanding he met with insuperable difficulties, it was by his di regions that Orellana, who was one of his officers, coasted down the great river of the Amazons, re turning from the mouth of it to the Spanish settle ments, on the other side of the American continent and thereby opening a passage to other before un known countries, as valuable as any that hitherto had been discovered. Th,Th
The proceedings of the marquiss Pizarro, after Almagro was put to death, were certainly as injudicious as they were cruel; for, he not only discharged all officers whom he suspected to have been inclined to his party, but also, conscious of his injustice, and fearing the consequence of their complaining against him, absolutely prevented their returning to Spain: and many of them being by there means involved in great distress, were re duce to the necessity of living upon the alms of their countrymen; and twelve of them, who were all men of family, resided in a house which was given them by de la Presa, having but one cloak amongst them all, which they wore by turns, go ing abroad only one at a time ; and de la Presa dy ing, Pizarro turned them out of the house, publish. ing an edit at the same time, whereby he forbade any relief being administered to them, or their ad events, under severe penalties the despair which this order inspired was much more destructive in its consequences to Pizarro, than possibly their other distresses could ever have been; for finding that their miseries could only be ended by theirs or the marquiss's fall, they removed upon an open attempt at revenge, which they desperate. ly and bravely put in practice. Although Lima had grown up, under the care and tuition of the marquiss, yet there were many of its inhabitants who pitied the fall of Almagro, some remembering perhaps how much he had con tribute to the reduction of Peru, others recollect ing that tenderness he had for the soldiery, for which he was remarkably beloved: and a third party, who had risen by his friendship, wanted only a fair opportunity to retaliate his death up on those who had perpetrated it. Among these, the desperate oppressed veterans, who laboured un der the disadvantages of Pizarro's edit, found re-,fuge
huge in repairing to Lima in small numbers, of two or three at a time, till they amounted to more than two hundred, who determined to feize.the first fair opportunity of executing their design; in the pro. securing of which, however, they were for some time retarded, in hopes that a new commissioner, some of whose attendants were already arrived, dis. patched from Spain, purposely to take cognizance of the marquiss's conduct, would do them justice, without forcing them to the necessity of an incur. refion.,But, on Sunday June 26, 1541, de Rada, one of the principal conspirators, was alarmed with a report that they were discovered, and the marquiss taking measures to have them all taken off by an ig. dominions death in leg than three hours; this intel licence he hastily communicated to such of his bre. then as he could most readily meet: on which, find ing that there was no time to be lost, they repaired, one by one, to the number of nineteen, to the house of young Almagro, which stood on one side of the great square of Lima, whence they marched with drawn swords through the, market-place towards the marquiss's palace, crying, " Long live the king! " but let the tyrant die !" And it is remarkable, that tho' there were above a thousand people in the square at the same time, neither did they meet the smallest opposition, nor did Pizarro receive the lead intelligence of their rising; so that they entered his palace very easily, the doors being open pizarro, who wa sitting with only two or three people, on the first news of the disturbance, which he received by one of his pages, ordered Francis de Chaves, his lieutenant-general, to secure the great door, which he neglected, supposing it only some mutiny among the soldiers, that his pretence would immediately quell, on which he went down stairs; and inquiring wherefore were these commotions,
motions, was only answered by two or three of the conspirators lodging their daggers in his bosom, oh which he fell dead at their feet the marquiss, hearing them in the gallery, had not time to put on his armour, but, seizing his sword and buckler, defended the dining-room door for some time with great bravery, supported only by his half-brother, Don Francis de Alcantra, and two of his pages, the rest of his company and ser wants having fled at the beginning-of the insurrection but one of the conspirators pressing home, bore down and killed Don Francis; on which the rest pushed forward with fresh vigour, so that the marquiss was-forced to retire before them, and at las sunk down fainting under his wounds; and was soon dispatched: his two pages also having desperately wounded several of the conspirators, expired by hillside, gallantly fighting in his defence to the last gasp thus, in his sixty-fifth year, ended the life of Don Francisco Pizarro, the firs discoverer and con queror of Peru; a man, the meanness of whole education appeared in his not being able to write his own name, his secretary always inserting it between two strokes which he drew with a pen: he was certainly endowed with many good qualities, and nature had furnished him with abilities as conspicuous in the busy operations of war, as they were illustrious in the gentler offices of peace; he was brave, prudent, and public-spirited, but unbound ely ambitious, never scrupling to sacrifice his ho your to his interest, and tarnishing his greatness by hats of inhumanity that will not bear excuse his seizing upon, and countenancing the death of Atabaliba; nay, even his breaking the solemn oath given to Almagro, and forwarding that unfortunate leader's destruction; with his unreasonable and inhuman prosecution of the followers of thereafter;
latter; were sufficient to obscure the glory of character much more illustrious than his.,The marquiss was never married, but he had ma. ny mistresses; home of them of the inca's family: however, we do not find that he left any children behind him; and, like his competitor Almagro, he was buried very privately by his own servants, no officer or person of any rank chusing to assist at his obsequies, lest they should thereby incur the displeasure of Almagro's friends. His house, with that of his brothers, and two or three of his proses. fed friends, was immediately plundered; and it is said, that the value of a million of crowns in gold and silver was found in his palace, the furniture of which was left untouched, being devoted to the use of young Almagro, whore party straight pro. claimed him governor of Peru; and was, the corn. mon consequence of power, considerably reinforced from all quarters; while several disorders were committed in the town, the confidant effect of such a reformation.,CHAP
C H A P. VIII, Young Almagro's authority opposed in many places:,Vaca de Castro arrives from Spain with a new com mission; his character; he is joined by Alonzo de Alvarado, Holguin, and many other commanders; A!tnagro's errors in conduct ; Gonfalo Pizarrofub- its to him ; two of Almagro's officers quarrel, one of them murdered; thefurviver killed by' 'maigrao; who refuses all. terms from de Cafiro ; with whom he engages, is beaten, taken prisoner, converted of high-treason, and executed, together with many of his adherent she magistracy' of Lima were obliged to own the authority of Almagro, and many other parts of the empire did the same; but Alon zo de Alvarado, who was in the.fouthern province of Chiachapuca, and Holguin absolutely refused it; the latter, on the first news of the revolution, mak ing what haste he could to Cuzco, where he erected the royal standard, and sent messengers round to the provinces of Arequipa, Los Charcas, and the neighbouring places, to encourage a spirit of loyalty, and of opposition to this new government; which induced some persons, who were friends to the sac tion, to flip away privately, intending to have join ed their friends at Lima; but they were pursued, and soon brought back to their duty.,In the mean time, Holguin having received in intelligence that Almagro was marching at the head of six hundred men, either to take Cuzco or give him battle; and knowing himself too weak to op pose them singly, determined, if possible, to ac complied a union with Alvarado, which he did thus by a feints ~~~~~~He
He Tent out a party of horse, which surprised some of Almagro's people; two of whom he order. ed .to be hanged, by way of intimidation, and sent the reit back to the camp, desiring them to' tell their leader, that he-would pay him such a visit in a day or two, as should make him rue their meeting: on which Almagro halted to receive him; and Hot. gain made use of that opportunity to turn off to an. other road, by which he soon came up with Al. varado, and in a few days joined Paca de Castro, the new commissioner, who had-been so long ex. pealed from Spain; and besides his being appointed to examine into the differences subsiding between the generals, was authorised, in case of the mar quits Pizarro's death, to assume the dignity and ad. ministration of governor of Peru. He had been driven by contrary winds into the bay of Gorgonaa, and resolved to travel by land to Lima, on the road to which he was thus reinforced, being now seven hundred firong.,Vaca de Castro was a man of sound sense, deep knowledge, firm resolution, and unconquerable in integrity: he was bred to the law; but his firm ad terence to justice, his contempt for every proceed irg that was not perfectly right, and his declining, even in the best cause, any thing that had the flight. efi appearance of illegality, or that looked like circumspection prevented him from meeting the en encouragement his virtue deserved i so that he was very little known.,WVe are not informed by what chance a man of such consummate honesty could find interest at court; but it is certain that the emperor had preferred him to this post, without advising with any of his ministers, because he had received some convincing proofs of his virtue; at the same time that he ad danced him, saying, that he would try how probity would thrive in an Indian soil, since it was lb little,cherilhed
cherished at a Spanish bar; and certainly, such a governor America never experienced, either before or fine ; his contra proving fully the truth of the proverb, that Honesty is the best policy.,He ventured upon this expedition with few fol lowers and little money; and his success, thus in differently seconded, must appear surprising, until we consider the situation of the Peruvian affairs, in consequence of which a lfrong party was to join him in their own defence.,De Castro received Alvarado andRPedro de Holbein with great civility,, confirming them in.their former commands; but, to prevent.all disputes that might arise from a division of the chief authority, as had been the case between Pizarro and Almagro, he assumed the title of captain-general himself, re solving to. aa in person every where, though he had not been bred in the field perhaps no man ever behaved with ashore. even conduct he never shewed his authority by op pression, nor shrove to purchase friendship by flat tery i to him both were equally odious: he deter mined with. rid impartiality every cause that came under his inspection; nor did the party's being ei ther Spanifh or Indian procure the least distinction to those who obeyed the emperor he behaved as a father.; tother rebellious, asian expounder of the law, to the very letter of which he adhered; as a man he was compassionate; as a judge he was a stranger to pity. The people at first were astonished at his deportment; but a short time con winced them of his upright intention: and they were taught at length to revere what they had before dreaded.,Belalcazar came from his government of Popay- an, to compliment him; most of the places that Were not overawed by the pretence of Almlgro,,VOL I. acklow-
acknowledged his power; and Gonfalo Pizarro, be ing returned from his progress to the eastward, as ter having sustained considerable hardships, and lost near two thirds of his men, sent a deputation to him from Quito, whereby he submitted himself to his superiority, and offered to march with what men he could raise to his assistance: but De Caflro, who always aged upon the principles of rectitude; sent him word, " That he accepted of his sub mission, and was satisfied of his fidelity to the em pero; that the hardships by him sustained in his late progress required some rest; on which account, the loyal party being already sufficiently firing, his pretence was dispensed with, and he was at liberty to apply himself to the care of civil matters in Quito.,Young Almagro was, in the mean time, making what head he could against such formidable opposition he was open, brave, and generous, but a little cruel; nature had blessed him with very great abilities, and they were tempered by the virtues of a proper education; but his youth lessened the in fluence which his merits ought to have command. ed, by which means he was driven into many er ross; the principal of which was, his permitting the armies of Alvarado and Holguin to unite, and not fixing upon any thing positively till it was al most too late to take any measures.,'The death of De Red, who was his general, and a man of experience as well as fidelity, con tribute to disconcert him greatly; and his after wards dividing the commission of general between Christopher de Sotalo and Garcia de Alvarado laid the foundation of his ruin christopher and Garcia soon after quarreling about superiority, the former having condemned a soldi er to be hanged for theft, was opposed by the lat ter, who thence taking occasion to differ with him,,7 warm
warm words ensued, and Christopher was killed on the (pot alm agro relented the assassination very highly, and Garcia fearing his revenge, resolved to-be be fore hand with him, by murdering him at a feast which he feigned to prepare worship entertainment; but his intention, by some means getting winds reached Almagro's cars, who pretending himself sick, staid at home; when Garcia fearing to lore so good an opportunity, went to him to endeavour to persuade him to come to it: at last Almagro, as if overcome by his persuasions, called for his cloke to go out: a concerted signal for notice had been given of Garcia's approach, and this was prepared for his reception; at which six men rushing in at once, seized and fabled him in several places, while Almagro with his drawn (word ran him thro' the body; after which hejnade Balsa his general, and then resolved to march against the new govern nor.,Vaca de Castro encamped at Guamanga, about fifty leagues south-west of Cuzco, where, willing to spare the effusion of Christian blood, he endeavoured to persuade Almagro to lay down his arms, but the latter insisted upon enjoying his father's government unmolested, till the decision of the em pero should dispose of it, before whom his claim to it was at that time laid by Alvarado, and op posed by Ferdinand Pizarro.,But whilst there messages paired betwixt them, Almagro found that Vico was under-hand endeavouring to reduce his people; for a Spaniard was discovered in his camp, disguised like an Indian, with letters to Pedro di Candia, Almagro's engineer persuading him, by very advantageous offers, to render the artillery useless, in case the two ar ses Should engage. This perfidy so incensed them 2 young
young general, that he ordered the spy to be in. lastly hanged up; and, tho' he seemed inclined to terms of accommodation before, he would now listen to none, except De Cafiro consented to banish Hot. gain, Alvarado, De la Saga, and many other veterans in whom the chief strength of his army confidted.,Neither side, after this period, entertained the lead hopes of agreement, but both marched forward to engage in the valley of Chupas.,De Castro's army confined of seven hundred Spaniards and many Indians; Almagro's of only five hundred Spaniards ; but then the latter had the advantage of a rising-ground, on which his ar tiller being posted, commanded the whole plain: in order to avoid the effects of this disposition, Carvajal, De Castro's serjeant-major, found a way of approaching the enemy Something nearer, under cover of a little hill ; but, when that shelter failed them, they were laid quite open to the fire of the artillery, whose balls flew over their heads, doing no manner Of execution: which Almagro observe ing, he advanced to Pedro de Candia, with fury in his eyes, and calling him traitor, frock him thro' with his spear; and instantly alighting, threw him self upon one of the cannon, bringing it with the weight of his body to bear upon the enemy, then ordered it to be fired; it swept down seventeen Spaniards, and was the firs, piece that did any exe. cution.,But the heat of youth, and want of confider, tion, led him into a blunder that completed his overthrow, at a time when he seemed to bid faireR for success; for, as De Castro approached them, some of Almagpo's people rashly pressed him to lead them forward to meet him. which lequel he consenting to, got between the enemy and his oln artillery, by that means rendering it unserviceable,' * ~~~~~~~ ] ~T'his
This irretrievable mistake being observed by his serjeant-major Suarez, he told Almagro, " That "' had he kept his pos, as he advised him, De Caf 6' tro muff have been inevitably ruined; but now, " aid he, it is plain you have thrown away the " advantage fortune had given you, and I don't "chute to share in a defeat arising from your misconduct ;" with which words he rode off to De Castro's army, not without several followers.,,Holguin was killed at the beginning of the fight with a musket-ball; and Alonzo de Alvarado would have been certainly born down by Almagro, if De Cairo, who had, by advice of his most experienced officers, kept aloof with a body of thirty men, to march down, in case of an:exigency, had not re lived him: on this occasion he shewed he had a good genius for military as well as civil affairs ; for never was succour more properly timed; it gave new vigour to his troops, who fought with redoubled valour, and soon drove the enemy from the si:ld.,Almagro, who had behaved with great courage and resolution, finding his army entirely scattered, wandered away with only six horsemen, and took the road to Cuzco, where the very magistrates, whom he himself had invested with power, as soon as they heard of his discomfiture, seized and imprison ed his person the battle of Chupas was fought on the I6th day of September, 1542; five hundred Spaniards fell therein on both sides; the partizans of Almagro were entirely routed, and the chiefs of them taken prisoners. De Castro was not backward either in praising or rewarding the intrepid behaviour of his troops; he was careful of the wounded, and or tered the dead to be decently interred.,He afterwards went to Cuzco, where a tribunal was erected for the trial of Almagro, who was tried, condemned, and executed for high-treason in them 3. begin-beginning
of 1543, and then interred in the same grave with his father, in much the same private manner.,Nor was his head alone thought sufficient atone. ment for his crimes; for most of his chief counsel. lors, but particularly those who had been concern. ed in the assassination of the marquis Pizarro, were formally tried and put to death, without favour or affection. By such proceeding, De Cairo notably extinguished the rebellion, but eradicated the very seed, of it, while his upright intention and difia. tested justice was universally acknowledged chap. IX. Dt Caflro's wis proceedings after the rebellion; he ii,fuperf/ded by Blasco Nztntz, who bears the title of viceroy, and, acting very injudiciously, is opposed by Gonfalo Pizarro, whole authority has the familia of the judges; the viceroy imp ironed, but efeaps. and suffers great hardships, and is at length killed in battle; the arrival of Pedro de la Gafra w'tb the commi';n of president and very great authority; takes offers to Pizarro, in vain; Pizarro 1'jt ground every where; however he fights with, and conquers Centers. DA E Caflro, having thus put an absolute end goethe commotions that had so long disturbed Peru, now apt lied himself to the arts of peace.,He established courts of justice, wherein right was impartially protected; he strengthened theol, and encouraged the settlements of new colonies.: he forwarded discoveries as much as in his power, and by so doing, rid himself of many clamorous and impertinent people.,The
The mines were worked, during his government, with great profit to the proprietors; and in all the great towns he erected public schools and colleges; at the same time appointing many learned men, conversant in the Indian language, to preach Chris dignity to the people, and was himself the converter of Paullu, the inca's brother, of whom we have often fpo-en heretofore, who was baptized by the name of Christopher; he was a man of excellent fenCe, and true to the Spanish interest, upon the nicest principles of honoured Cafiro also divided the lands into ecclesiastical jurisdictions, appointing bishops and subordinate ministers, for which he was vetied both with the papal and imperial authority. In short, had the government continued in his hands, Peru had, in a very little time, been one of the best re gutted kingdoms in the world; and more profitable to the Spanish crown than all its other do minions; but the, cabals of the ministry, which could draw no advantage from a man whose corn du standing not in need of defence, neither courted nor bribed, dispersed the Halcyon calm; first by appointing certain judges, with very large authority, to take cognizance in public matters, who opposed the governor often, for opposition's sake; and afterwards by sending over Blasco Nunez, with the title of vice-roy, to supersede him, and enforce laws that were absolutely detrimental to the advantage and peace of the king dom this new officer arrived atLima, in thereat 1544, and although the inhabitants unanimously offered to support De Cafiro in his administration, and to petition the emperor for his continuance, he would by no means avail himself of their friendship; but submitted to the authority of Nunez, who,,M 4 jealous
jealous of his great influence among the people, soon after made some pretence of putting him un. der an arrest, and proceeded otherwise in a man. ner so arbitrary and disagreeable, as to entail upon himself many enemies, who encouraged Gonfalo Pizarro to raise troops against him, promising to support him in the office of procurator-general, with a power to lift men in defence of his person; the judges, whom we have just now mentioned, acknowledging his title in opposition to Nunez, and ordering matters so as that he was received as governor es Peru in the city of Cuzco.,Herrera and De la Vega give very different ac counts of the administration of Nunez, but we shall rather chuse to adhere to the relations of the latter, as he seems to speak very coolly every where, and shews no rancour against any party, neither does he pretend to vindicate any ill action on either side; on the contrary, Herera, through the whole, plainly manifests a fixed enmity to Pizarro's fa. mile; and what would induce us to credit La Vega still more, is, that he lived on the spot at the same time that the things happened, concerning which he writes.,So arbitrary and overbearing was the deport ment of Nunez, that his forces every day fell off to Pizarro; and being a man of a warm temper, he ordered Suarez, who was one of his 'bes friends, to 'be assassinated in his presence, because he suspected him of a design to desert; tho' he heartily repent ed of this rashness in a little time, being' fully con winced of his fidelity soon after this, the judges were obliged to take him into custody, and order him to be sent under a guard on board a flip, and in so doing they certain ly aced judiciously, as this was the only way to preserve his life from the insults of the angry populace and the revenge of Benito de Carvajal, bro-thei
ther to Suarez, who had served under Gonfalo: Nunez was indeed sometime after set at liberty and carried, at his own desire, to Truxillo, by Alvarez,. one of the judges who had been'entrufted by his brethren to carry him to Spain, and lay his pro meetings before the-emperor. In the mean time. Gonfalo, partly by fair and partly by foul means, got himself generally acknowledged as governor of Peru: but left the administration of civil affairs very wisely to the judges, applying himself entirely. to the care of regulating his army.-,Having fettled things in such a manner, that no, body seemed either willing or able to dispute his. authority, he resolved on sending two of his par titans to Spain in the same ship with Vico de Cafiro, to defend his proceedings; but De Cafiro. fearing some ill usage from them, prevailed on the, crew to quit the harbour and fleer for Panama), before Pizarro's dispatches were ready This retreat incensed Pizarro extremely :- he secured several people who had been very serviceable to him, of conniving at De Castro's escape; and not only arbitrarily imprisoned, but cruelly put many of them to death;. and though he shifted the blame as much as he could upon Carvajal, yet, as. he did not punish him in the least, this was looked. on as a pretence. In the mean time, the viceroy and jii ge Alva rezarrived at Tumba-, were he pub issued a ma nifelto, with an account of Pizarro's rebellion, re questing the assistance of all loyal subject against him; and, in reality, displaying in these circum stances, much greater abilities than it was possible have suspected him. matier of in prosperity ;; but the ill character he had before acquired, fright ed even Pizarro's enemies from joining him; so, that he was obliged to retire on the new governor approach, who pursued and hunted him,M 5 over
over the rugged mountains of Quito, where he of; ten experienced very great digress, being reduced to the necessity of feeding on horse-flesh, or suce wild herbs and vegetables as the inhospitable soil afforded.,Nunez having evaded him thus for more than a year, during which time great cruelties were corn mitted on each side, was at length betrayed into an engagement near Quito, on the eth of January 1546, in which his party was totally routed, and himself, gallantly fighting, knocked down, his head being, by the revengeful Suarea's order, struck of and set upon a pole i an indignity which Pizarro resented extremely, ordering it to be taken down, as soon as ever he was informed of it, to. be ho* ,- r.urably interred with the body the accounts of these dangerous divisions gave great uneasiness to the court of Spain, and indu. cet the emperor to send over Pedro de la Gafca, with the title oÂ£ president of the royal court of Peru, and power equal to that of a sovereign prince, his instructions empowered him to make or to re peal lawF.to pardon or punish treason, as he should judge beR for the honour of God, and service of his prince. In-short, he was permitted to exercise the same authority with refpei to persons and things as if he was the king in person pedro de la Gafca was a priest,. and. a, bro. ther of the inquisition, but a man of firma resolution unshaken honesty, and unalterable courage,. mild, affable, penetrating, and sagacious; betides, he acted entirely upon disinterested principles. His commission was dated at Vienna, in the be ginning of the year 1546, and he arrived at Pa nama about the middle of July, in the same year, where he was received with great respect, his agreeable and judicious deportment procuring him many fiends; and adding some considerable persons
sons to the royal party, among whom was Hino-, jock, who commanded the fleet as admiral under Pizarro; but his revolt was, by agreement, to be kept a profound secret, till such time as it was known in what manner Pizarro would behave to the messenger, whom Gafca sent to him with one letter from the emperor, and another from him self there letters were carried' by a personated Paniagua, whom Pizarro received very respectfully; submitting to an assembly of his principal officers his instructions, wherein was offered a general amnesty to all who would acknowledge the president authority, and a proper provision promised to be made for Pizarro and his family, in consideration of their services, without any remembrance of his rebellion. Carvajal declared very warmly for accepting there terms, and was joined by mo derate people; but several persons who were of a stirring, uneasy disposition, prevailed with Pizarro to answer, by sending a short defence of his con du, and requiring to be confirmed in the govern ment of Peru; to which, as heir to his brother, who had conquered the country, as well as by pre cedent, in all cases of the-like nature, he had am undoubted right.,Paniagua had secret orders to grant this request in pizarro, in case he found his party very strong; but having been privately visited by most of his principal people, who assured him that they would all join the royal standard,. as soon as ever the press dent arrived in Peru, Paniagua suppressed these or ders, seeing he might succeed without declaring* them, tho' De la Vega informs us, he often after wards repented that he had acted in this manner: and not without reason, as a great many lives might have been preserved.,MX 6 About '
About this time, the news of the defection of Hinojofa, and several other persons in whom he had reposed great confidence, reached Pizarro's ears; but what gave him most uneasiness. was, the defer tion of two of hit people, whom he had sent with a defence of his conduce into Spain.,The city of Cuzco was soon after surprized by the following stratagem. Centeno, an officer who had fought very bravely under the viceroy Nunez, after whose defeat he took refuge in the mountains, once more made his appearance, declaring himself firmly attached to the emperor; and was joined by about eighty horsemen, with whom he determined to surprize that city, it being garrisoned by three hundred men, under the command of De Robles, a man faithful to the interest of Pizarro.,For this purpose, as soon as night fell, they or tered some Indians to drive their mules and other beasts of burthen with a great noise, and matches lighted at the pummel of each saddle, up a certain street; which alarmed the garrison, and the soldiers marched out to that quarter, wherein was the confusion ; while Centeno and his people en tered the town on the contrary side, attacked them in the rear, and put them in such disorder, that they immediately fled, leaving him in possession of it, and many of them, who owed no good will either to Pizarro or De Robles,- returning to join him, on finding out what was the true state of the care, De Robles himself was made prisoner, being discovered to have taken refuge in a convent, and behaved so insolently to Centeno, that he ordered him to be beheaded the president was, by this time, arrived in the province of Quito, publishing every where a ge neral amnesty, and a repeal of the laws that had been so irksome to the people; some of them having exempted, nay forbid, under severe pre-penalties,
pasties, the Indians from working in the mines or filling for pearl; thus, by a mistaken clemency, preventing the getting that treasure which made Peru so valuable an acquisition; also commanding that no-Indian servant should be kept on any account whatever'by any of the king's officers, and many of these poor people who had fallen-into the hands of tender humane matters, lamented at being ob lived to leave them, as-if they had been torn from a parent's arms others of there laws appointing that the estates of all persons should, on their death, fall to the crown, at whole option it was to appoint a certain maintenance for their wives and children. There were several others, to the amount of forty four, equally impolitic, unwise, and destructive to the interest of the country.,Centeno's army was now encreased by reinforce ments from Arequipa, La Plata, and other places, to above a thousand men; and the president was. daily growing stronger, so that he resolved to march towards Lima, which city had declared in his fa your a day or two after Pizarro had left it, who bent his course towards Arequipa; but finding things go every where against him, and not being much above four hundred firing, when joined by Costa with fifty horse, .he turned off goethe south ward, intending to have established a colony on-the east side of the mountains of Potofi, the silver mines of which had been just then discovered; and in case of meeting with interruption there, his design was to have retreated farther south, and made a settlement in Chili.,But Centeno lying in the way, Pizarro having tried by fair means, to engage him on his side to no purpose, determined to force a passage through his camp; on which Acofla made an attack the night before the battle, in hopes to have surprized Cen-,tenol
ten; but he was discovered, and retired without any loss.,Centeno's force consisting of between one thou. sand and twelve hundred men, and Pizarro's of not quite five hundred, on the 20th, of October, 1547r both armies drew up in sight of each other: but the courage and conduct of Carvajal flood in the place of numbers; he gave orders that his people should not move from the posh inr which he had fixed them, but reserve their fire till the enemy were close upon them he also armed every man with .w muskets, for many who had deserted had left their arms be,, hind them;. and his orders were so well obeyed, that Centeno was entirely rou ed, though Pizarro's cavalry had at first been closely pushed,. and he him, self forced to take shelter with his infantry.,Centeno. who was carried to the field in a lit. ter, was by the defeat entirely cured of his mala. dy, and mounting a horse, endeavoured to per fade his people to rally, but in vain; that raf spirit that had spurred them on to battle, without waiting the command of the general, or keeping their ranks, was so totally changed into fear and confusion, that they paid no attention to his re monstrances, and he was obliged to march, by the privates roads possible, almost in despair, tc Lima.,i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
C H A P. X. onfa!o enters Cuzco; the present ir visited by. Valdivia and many other officers; Pizarro ruins himself by receding Carvajal's advice, and is abandoned by all his people, on the meeting of both armies; surrenders himself, and behaves wit) great spirit before the provident; be is condemned for rebelling against the emperor, and beheaded; many of his officers are-put to death; the pres lent perplexed about the division of the lands, retires to Spain Pizarro's troops, considerably reinforced by this viAory, having been joined by numbers of the vanquished, marched to take possession of Cuzco, where detached parties were sent out to scour the country, the commanders of which were-guilty of, many barbarities however, this defeat did not much affect the pre sident's army, which encreased daily, Centeno hav ing made a (hist to come up with him, and he also being joined by Belalcazar and many other good officers, together with Pedro de Valdivia, with' about twelve horse this last-mentioned gentleman had been ap pointed governor of Chili; but finding his force much too small to maintain him in his post, had' taken shipping at St. Sago for Lima, with a considerable quantity of treasure, which he intended' to have disposed of, in raising recruits: but, find ing how things were situated on his arrival at Lima, he joined e president directly, who received' this valuable second in the most respectful marr er. His coming was undoubtedly a considerable advantage, for there was not a better soldier at that time in America, and such intrepidity and.,foresight
foresight as he possessed, were only fit to match with Carvajal.,Thus reinforced Gafca found himself at the head of fifteen hundred men, wherewith he resolved to march in search of Pizarro, who, flushed with success was determined to meet him this resolution was quite contrary to the advice of the experienced Carvajal, who assured him that such a step would be their entire ruin i he wisely ob. serving that the president's army was much dupe. prior to his; that he was certain too of his men's fidelity, whereas Pizarro might be certain that three hundred men who had deserted from Cen. ten, after the lass engagement, would, on the leads appearance of advantage, return to their old master he also made it evident, that the most judicious shep he could take, would be to harass the pre sident's army, by retiring before him to the south. ward, and distressing him by carrying off all the provisions in every place as he went; so that in following him, he muss be certain to encounter many difficulties: and he promised to shew him a place out of which it would be impossible to force him, at the same time that he could awe the whole country, and starve his antagonist but Pizarro, who had some ill-grounded diffidence of Carvajai, as if bent upon his own ruin, was deaf to all his arguments;' tho' the latter of served, with two hundred foot and fifty horse, to prevent the enemy from passing the river at Apuri- mac, nay undertook absolutely to rout them. His offer was slighted, and the command conferred upon .costa, who, neither having sufficient foresight nor diligence, allowed the enemy to seize upon the pass, without any refi.fance.,On the top of a hill near Apurimac, was a spring of fresh watt;, the only one within many miles; near which it was Carvajal's scheme to have lainin,3 ambush
ambush and when the soldiers were running, with out order, to drink, after crossing the river, which would certainly be the case, as there could be no .suspicion of an enemy, then it was his design to have fallen' suddenly upon, and drove .them down to the river again, when their confusion and difur. der would have completed their rout had Pizarro complied with any-of these directions he had retrieved his own affairs, and destroyed all Gafca's designs: but they were Liven-in vain ; every opportunity of straining the president was lost, and on the 9th of April, I548, both armies were drawn up in battle-array, in sight ~of each other, and Carvajal observing the order of the pre sident's forces, was heard to say, Valdivia-must certainly be with Gafca, for no man in Peru could dispose of that army to such advantage but he.,The victory was not long in dispute, Pizarro's people going over in bodies to the enemy; Sauces lasso de la Vega, father to the historian, was the first who shewed them the way; the whole right wing followed him, and several squadrons of horse went after, while Carvajal, who, disgusted at Pi varro's perverseness, had refused all command, and used only as a private man, began to sing aloud r one part of an old ballad, not ill adapted to the present circumstances the remainder of his men, feeingthemfelves thus abandoned, flung down their arms and fled; so that Pizarro was, in a very short time, left with only a few officers, and turning to Costa said, calmly, 'X Well, brother John, what are we " to do ?" " Why, die like Romans," answered the. " No," replied Pizarro, " let us rather fall " like Christians.",Having said thus, they moved on towards Gas ca's army, where Pizarro surrendered himself to Pedro de Villavincentio, who thanked him for the,honour
honour he had conferred on him by so doing, and with great politeness, refused to take his sword and dagger from him, which he offered, 'having no other arms; Centeno met him as he was going to appear before the president, and expressed great feeling at his circumstances; to which he chearfully answer. ed, " This day Centeno has completed my fall,; " tomorrow perhaps you yourselves will have rea " son to lament it.",He behaved before Gafca, who accused him of rebelling against the emperor, and murdering Nu nez, with great firmness; he said he had not as fumed the government till conferred upon him by the power of the judges, though it was his, in right of the commission granted by the emperor to his brother and his heirs; that Nunez had been killed in battle, and he had been forced to oppose him for the preservation of the public peace and in reply to the president's accusing him of ingratitude to the emperor who had raised him 'from nothing, he answered, that no body could deny his being a man of family, the constituents of which owed their elevation entirely to their own bravery; and had they erred in their con du, which he denied, yet he imagined the services they had done the crown, should have pleaded in their behalf; he concluded with bid ding the governor look round him: then, says he, "you will recollect that this whole count. " try was annexed to the Spanish throne by the t valour of my brother: I too contributed, and " do I, who have been an assistant, and am the " only representative of that brother, ask any c thing unreasonable, when I insist upon being "( made its governor; I dare not tax the emperor "C with injustice, but I cannot help saying, if hefaw " my situation, if he was allowed to do it witb,- impartial
- ,Li, Pr:~~~~~~ ~b~o~ caro ~earkd-
impartial eyes, instead of consigning me to ' bondage, and branding me with the name of " rebel, he would give me a still larger reward c, than that for which I have been forced to-ostend." This bold-defence of himself was not pleasing to Gafca, who ordered him back into the custody of Centeno, by whom he was treated with the same refpea as if he had been master of the greatest power.,Carvajal endeavouring to make his escape from the field, was taken by rome people who saw him fall from his horse, endeavouring to cross a brook and had not Valdivia and Centeno timely come ups the latter of whom took him under his care, he had been in danger of being very ill used the president loon after held a council of war upon his situation, in which, after much debate, Alonzo de Alvarado and Chance were appointed to sit as judges upon Pizarro and his followers, it being thought the moRs judicious course to deter mine their fate as speedily as possible; left any change in their favour should throw matters out of their present channel. 'Accordingly Pizarro, old Carvajal, Acafto, and Guevara, were tried, convinced, and condemned to be hanged; a sentence which was executed ili spontaneously upon them all, except Pizarro, whose sentence was changed to decollation, in consideration of the noble title of his brother; in pursuance of which, on the following day he loss his head upon a block, in the forty second year of his *age thus fell Gonzalo Pizarro, a man who certainly merited a better fate; and I must declare it my opinion, that he richly deserved the post, in struggling for which, he lost his life; as well. from. his family-pretensions as his own private virtues and,hia.
his very great abilities. The houses of Pizarro both at Cuzco and Lima were razed to the ground, and the spots on which they flood sown with-fait; a marble pillar was also erased, on which his crimes were inscribed, and his head, together with that of Carvajal, was set up in the market. place of Lima: and several of his officers and ache. rents were publickly executed in many other places; after which sacrifices, the President having pro. claimed a general pardon, retired to Cuzco, where he rested for some time, amidst the rejoicing of his followers. But even now, when he thought, by the. suppression of the rebels, all his troubles were at an end, he found them only beginning; for .when he came to distribute the lands, there was no such thing as satisfying the demands of the peo. p!e in general, even the meanest soldier expecting-to be made lord of a manor.,At length, wearied out with their solicitations, he resolved to escape from them at once; for which reason he privately withdrew to Lima, and thence made the belt of his way to Panama, there intend. ing to embark for Spain, and carrying with him near two millions for the emperor's use, and not a ducat for himself; so that, I fancy, it will be found very hard to match him and Vasco de Cafiro, both-of whom acted upon principles very different from the bulk of mankind, promoting the welfare of the people, and improving the revenues of the crown, without any regard to their own private interest. It is to be remarked that they were neither cour tiers nor noblemen.,At Panama, Gafca was very near losing all the treasure he had amassed for the emperor, together with his own life, by an unexpected infurreai' on, which he quelled by his valour and prudence Then he embarked for Spain, at Nombre d,DiOt
Dios, in the year 1550, and the emperor was so well pleated with his conduct, that he gave him the bishopric of Siena, a populous city in Old Castile, the income of which is reckoned at this day worth four hundred thousand ducats per year; in which place he died in Ice, and was buried in the parish-chapel of Magdalene of Valladolid, which he had built and endowed himself.,The
The VoYAGES of the several first AD-adventurers, particularly of Ferdinand DE Sots, for the Discovery of FLORIDA, I539.,CH A P. I. Florida discovered by Sebastian Cabot; John de,Ponce's expedition thither with three Ships; the rea sin of calling it Florida; Ponce's people attacked by the natives, and beaten in two places; his search after the fountain of health; Francis d, Cordova's ill success here j Pamphilo de Narvaez comes hither with a large force; takes four primo. news, and procures provision ; he proceeds in search of a supposed gold country; one of his men drown ed; he arrives with his people at Apalachen, where he meets with same opposition, FLORIDA, which is on the continent of Ames rica, was first discovered by Sebastian Cabot, about the beginning of the sixteenth century; but had no name; nor was it, among the various nati ons then daily found out,. taken much notice of, ill the expedition of John Ponce de Leon, who being superseded in his government of Porto Rico, where he had made a plentiful fortune, fitted out three ships well stored, and stoutly manned, with a view partly to profit, and partly to reputation, behaving t "ev~~~ner~
264 VOYAGES FOR Behaving made a large circuit, and passed several points of land, he was tempted to come to anchor in sight of a country that presented the most al luring landscape he had ever seen; to which he gave the name of Florida, out of compliment to Easier, called by the Spaniards Pafcua Florida, from its being the finest flower-season, he having discovered this territory on Easter-Sunday 1512.,Havirg coasted along a good while, in search of a convenient harbour, he went on shore April the 8th, in hopes to have made some acquaintance with the natives, several of whom were drawn up at a defiance, watching an opportunity to drive the Spaniards.from their boat; one of whom receiving a severe blow on the head, the sight became warm, and two others were dangerously wounded, though the natives received no damage. Leon, having with some pains, collected his men, and failed to a river which they named Rio de la Cruz, or the River of the Holy (Cross, he took in wood and water; but was severely handled by the Indians: so that he thought it would be vain to attempt making any settlement in. this place, though, with half his complement of men, a per. son ot Cortes's abilities would have subdued the better part of America ; and indeed nothing con. tribute rr ore to his failure in an establishment at this place, than a ridiculous notion where with he had been inspired, tf there being some where, in that neighbourhood, a fountain endued with the virtues of Medea's kettle, in which an immersion restored decrepit old age to luiiy youth ; hoe-ever, having misspent a great deal of time here, and among the Bahama .sands, in search of this ideal cu itfity. he returned to Spain, where, r aking a great buffle about the me its of his ex:ditirn, he was generously edward. ed by the court i though the only advantage that,accrued
accrued from his:in dusty, was discovering a short way through te 'bay of Mexico to' Spain without. going rod;id by' the.ifland of'Cuba; the course of all (hips before that tile-sin 1517, Francis de Cordova put in upon this coast to wood and .Water, but feieral'of his men were cut 'off by the inhabitants, and he himself was so dangerously wounded, that he died a few days after his return 'to Cuba.,Vasquez de Ayllon made ar expedition thither sometime after, but his plan of operations was 'o badly laid, that the Indians cut off above two hundred of 'his men, aid drove the rect off the' coast; nays some have asserted that he himself was killed here, nor is it very unlikely, since we have no certain accounts of him after that time;,Parniphilo de Narvaez, of whose connexion with and confinement by Cortes, we have' already spoken in the conquest of Mexico, being. at length restored to his liberty, was the next who set out upon discoveries in Florida, carrying with him five hips, on board of Which were six hundred men and eighty horse: the' chief persons' attending him, were Alvaro Punez, commonly called Capo di Lava, in quality 'of treasurer, Agozinio as a provost ' martial, Alonzo Euriquez as auditor, and Alonzo de Solis, favor for' the king, together with father' Giovanni, a franciscan, and four other friars of the same order after two or three very violent florins, wherein they lost above two hundred of their 'men and half their horses, they arrived on the coast of Florida, April the i2th 1528, and the auditor went afhord'on 'a small island, the inhabitants of which gave him rome deer skins and a few fishes: the day following, Narvaez:took with him' as many men as the'boats could hold, and landed on the nain land of Florida, at a little village, which was Toil II. N abandoned
abandoned by the natives; the houses hereof were of different sizes, some very. small, and others large'enough to contain more than three hundred people. 'He first took formal possession of the place for the king of Spain, dispatched the brigantine in search of a sae, harbour for the ibis, landed the remainder of his horses, and then marched northward' with forty, foot add, six horse men. They made four Indians prisoners, when they had travelled. about four leagues,; who by signs promised to shew them wbhre to get mais, of which they had hitherto seen none; and' ac accordingly they brought them to. a village, in the neighbourhood of which there, was, mais, but it was not yet ripe; and afterwards to another where there were some wcbsof cloth, and a small quantity of gold, which they gave them,.to understand they had from a country called Apalachen; lying to the north-weft often: a little farther on, they found a large field of mais fit to be, cut, and here they lrefed themselves two days.,It being now determined to march over, land in search of Apalachen, from whence the gold they had seen was brought; Narvaez chose out three hundred men, forty of whom'were- mounted for this expedition; giving first' to each man two pounds of biscuit, and half a pound of pork; on-which they lived for fifteen days meeting neither house, inhabitants, nor eatables, except dates, which we ere y acceptable. Their progress was now ibqpped by a river, which ran with excessive fury; however, they encamped upon the banks of it about a day, when its rage 'Subsiding, they passed it upon 'rafts, not without great difficulty and peril. Here they found two hundred Indians drawn up armed, as it were to oppose them whom convincing that their intentions were peace-sable,
able, they were furnished with maiz,.and.then, were directed onward to Apalachen.,June the 7.th, they were met by a cacique.co,. vexed with a painted deer fain, and riding on th neck of one of his servants; he was efcorttd.by a body of musicians playing upon cane flutes, and spent above ad hour with Pamphilo, in. which time he endeavoured to tell him, that the people - of Apalachen were his enemies; and presented him the deers skin that he. wore, in return for some hawks bells, and other trifles given him by thb Spaniards. After leaving him, thy cameo river on which they did, not-are-to venture even-with rafts.; one. of their men who, bolder than tie rest, endeavoured. to swim his horse over, being drowned, together with his beaft,,in their sight, they found the body of the-horse, of which they made a very hearty supper, and then passed the river in a canoe made for that purpose. .shaving. surprized. and. seized four Indians to con idut them,. they came. n sight of Apalachen June the 26th, after traversing huge forests, where the trees grew so thick as scarcely to admit a paiRfgee and mountains that seemed, with giant-like, ambition to reach at heaven: never was prosper£ more agreeable than that' of Apalachen was to their people, whom. hunger and fatigue had worn: to 'skeletons; mots of them being ready to faint under their arms, which had galled their.fhoulders, and were very uneasy to them the town of Apalachen was made-ip of forty low mud cabins, situated on a randy ground, and surrounded by groves of pine, cedar, elm, palm, and walnut trees; mais they found here in plenty, and saw rabbits, bears, lions, &c. geese, ducks, black-birds, falcons of several sorts, and several other kinds of beats and birds of prey.,N2 The
The treasurer was sent with fifty foot and nine horse to reconnoitre the place, in which he found-only women and children, with some deer skin, a few thread garments of little value, and fame mais, as also mills to grind it; the men were re. tired from the town in arms, and in a little time made an attack upon the Spaniards, who quickly repulsed them with the loss of one horse, which was shot through with arrows. However, they came shortly after in a very peaceable manner, entreat. ing to have their wives and children restored them, which request was immediately granted; hut ones their caciques being detained by Narvaez, in censed them so much, they once more came down in a hostile manner, but were so vigorously received, that they foot fed with precipitation, and took helter among the standing corn, leaving one man dead behind them the Spaniards refined here, twenty-five days, dur. ing which parties went out to view the country on all sides, and indeed it promised very indifferently, presenting to the eyes nothing but inaccessible mountains craggy rocks, impenetrable forests, inhospitable desarts. and impalpable lakes. This seemed to be the only inhabited spot in the whole country, and they understood as much from the cacique, whom they kept prisoner, he informing them, that a great way to the south was the sea, on the borders of which were a people called Acute; who were his friends, and had plenty of Indian corn.,CHAP
C H,A P. IT. They are disappointed osgood, and rduedued to great distress; at length they contrive si small vessels, ani embark on the river Magdalena : t.iey land cn an il'aind, when they a. e fred to afj'irmnjh, and Narva is wounded; he is afterwards Supposed to be lost in a hard gale of wind; but Alvaro gai'. s land, a,4nt slenderly used by the native,; whin' e said t. ere of Sickness: a description and a career of tee people; the Spaniards pass for children of time fun; they meet with Christians, who use them ill. T HEIR expectations with regard to gold be-sing not in the least answered, it was resolved to proceed for Acute, which they accordingly did; and after a very troublesome journey, and being daily annoyed by the natives, they arrived there in nine days, but the people had burned their houses and were all fled; however they found some mais, gourds, and other vegetables, which gave them great refreshment the place not answering their wishes in-any re spect, it was determined to try to build themselves boats, and embark upon the river which they saw, and called Magdalena, it being very largess and they hoping that it might bring them back to that part of the coast of Florida which borders on the gulph of Mexico. For this purpose, they with great difficulty contrived five large barks, each twenty two cubits long; one of their men, who had a ready invention, having ereaed a forge, and prepared a sort of-bellows to blow it, with beasts skins and a pipe of wood, made a shift to form such iron-work as they wanted out of their cross bows, spurs, some of their arms, &c. the chinks 3 were
were flopped up with palmer leaves and bark, their rigging was-twined horse-hair, and their sails were their thirty; of the sabine-wood they made: oars-and the gum that distilled from the pine-tree served them for pitch; from the legs of the dead horses they flayed the skin as entire as possible, and there sewed tightly were used to contain their water, instead of boracchios.,September the 22d, they embarked on board there vessels, and committed themselves to the mercy of the waves, not one of them knowing any thing of navigation; having lost in twenty days, forty men by sickness and fatigue, besides ten that were killed by the Indians, in sight of their comrades, who cou'd not do any thing for their rescue; so very wretched was their plight. Ar the end of seven days, they discovered five ca I:c-.' full of Indians, who ran ashore on an island, v here Narvaez and his people followed them, and, a:'!diga found some eggs and dryed thorn backs, which were a welcome assistance. Leaving thia,ri.: d and taking the canoes with them, they l;ikd forward, till their water failing, they were reduced to extreme necessity, and were forced to drink the sea-water, whereby five of their men were killed; but perceiving some inhabitants on a point of land which they weathered, they ten tured to go on shore, where they found little houses well built and lined with matting, and fresh water sanding in pots at the doors, together with fish ready drest, on which they made a delicious meal: the cacique here treated them with great kindness; but at night the Indians fell upon them, carried away the cacique, who was rescued by his own people, and wounded Narvaez with a stones the headmaster this adventure, they met with forme Indians who offered to New them fresh water, and leaving,hostages,
hostages, took with them three Christians por that purpose,. Who were' hier after heard of;'the hostages endeavouring privately to escape, and their brethren afterwards striving ineffectually to recover them by force'; ho'devvere they at last came to a river, where, to their vast joy,. they found th stream fresh, but there being no wood, they once iiore trussed to the current, each man being stinted to a handful of raw mais a day they Were how attacked by a violent form, and their little fleet scattered, at which time it was imagined Pamphilo Narvaez was lost; he having never been heard of after. The boat in which was Alvaro Niuntz was drove upon an 'island, whereto inhabitants, who were of a gigantic stature relieved and treated them with vast humani ty; so that the Spaniards having recruited their strength, and mad provisions fish, wood, water, and force vegetables, 'stripped themselves naked to launch their boat, which having done, put all their things'dn board, and lasty embarked themselves a sudden wave turned her topsy-turvy, and three men'whom she struck at the same time sunk to the. bottom and were drowned: Alvaro-and the rest made a shift 'to reach the land, but quite naked, having lost their cloaths and every necessary by that last accident; so that they were reduced. to the' extremest misery their appearance was so wretched, that the In diana could scarcely know them' again;. but they soon brought them more provision, and sat down. by them, lamenting their misfortune after which they carried them on their shoulders to their places of residence, flopping very often-by the way, to warm them at great fires; which they had prepared for that purpose at convenient distances : here they found the company of one of their barks, at which they were exceedingly rejoiced, and as flie was in,N4 - good
good order prepared to trim for another voyage; but, when they were upon the points embarking, the was lost in a violent gale ofwind: about this time their number was reduced from eighty to sis. teen, so much were they-diminished by famine and other hardlhips.,The men of this country-make a hole quite thro' one of their paps, and feme through both; in which they carry a fmall.piece of cane, about three spans long; and they also hang another piece to their nether lip, which is likewise bored through. The women are. hard drudges: they generally inhabit this island from October to the end of February, and their food is fish, and a certain pleasant root that grows about a foot under water; after this, the roots beginning to sail,. they remove their quarters efewhere.,Alvaro said with these humane people till-they were about to pass over to the continent, when they took him and his followers with them; be cause, say both Serena and Ramus, in their ac. counts of these matters, he had cured many of their sick by the sign of the cross ; and if this was the case, we muss suppose the pagan Indians to have had more faith than the Christian Spaniards ; sincerity them it was much more efficacious: and yet it i: certain, that Alvaro and two of his companion! made oath. in the most solemn manner, at Mi. chisels in the South Sea, that, during six years, in which they had travelled among the wild Indians, they were treated civilly on the account of the cure' performed by them with the sign of the cross.,Alvaro and his two remaining companions were rewarded for the many cures they performed with a fruit, which serves the people principally for sus penance; it is called tune, about the size of an egg of a good table, and the colour red and black in termed; which they not only eat fresh, squeezing
ing out the liquor, which is an excellent driri, but also cut them open and firing them, hanging; them up to dry like figs. .the Spaniards gave this place the hame of Mal Had, or 111 Luck; the people, who are divided into many nations of different names-are very fond of their children, lamenting their lots when they die, for a year, in a very solemn melancholy man. ner; but they are very different with repel* to the death of their aged, especially fuch.as are past their labour, saying it was time 'that they lhoild; go, and not slay to devour the sustenance from firing young people who earned it, which they were unable to dot hose that have children by their wives never forsake them; neither do they.bed with them during the time they know them-to be with child: if they chance to quarrel, they cudgel one .another. heartily; but never use their bows and arrows but: against the common enemy, and even with them; they fight no longer than while they have arrows, to shoot with; when there are wasted, though they should have infinitely the advantage, they. turn:their7 backs and walk off very quietly - nor are their wounds, though quite through the. body, mortal , except in the heart or bowels - It is. remarkable, they will touch nothing after a-woman while under the menstrual evacuation; so thar,.-during:that time she must eat by. hetfelr.,When Avaro and his companions were about .to' quit the people, tp. whom thefe.cufloms.were fa mniiar, they desired to be carlied.towards- the place of the fun's setting; which was refused .them, he cause it was affirmed, the-regions lying that way were uninhabited; hut, insisting upon it;. and ex pFeffii;g Come anger at being coni: addicted,. the poor-indians, who feared that knowledge th-at had done: such signal. cures among them, might,. if longer op ,N 5: eolfed
posed, To them special barm, soon contented to their request, and offered to. conduct them they paled through many different territories for upwards of five days, during which they had some. times provision, sometimes none; feeding one day upon kine and venison, another upon powdered f-raw, till at length they came to a nation where the people appeared to be a little civilized; having good thatched houses, plenty of mais, pulse, and gourds, with-good skins, principally those of deer,. bombafine, cotton, coral, turquoise, and emeralds, shaped like arrow-heads; of all which the Spaniards partook.,Some way farther, they fell in with a tribe of people who were very brutal, and seemed to have-but little understanding; however, they paid the Spaniards great respect, supposing them descended from heaven, because they resembled certain people,. who, they said, had visited their land not long before, with horses,. lances, and swords, whom. they supposed to be children of-the fun, and who went thence to sea ,Shortly after, they-had-more news of' the Chris. hans, who had driven the inhabitants of some pla. ces, where they chanced toconie,.up to the mountains and behaved in a very cruel manner; and hence they. judged that they we-r near the South. Sea; which opinion was confirmed by Diego de Acaraza Spaniard, whom they soon after, met upon an excursion with some of his people, who told the Indians that guided them, that Alvaro and his companions were a mean, insignificant race of people, born to servility, and unworthy the attendance that was paid them: to which the simple In diana reasonably answered, that such a report was incredible, since they had great skill in curing the diseased, and delighted in doing good; besides which, they kept nothing for themfCIvYs, but ge-,- naxvuay
nervously divided with their followers whatever presents were made to them-whereas, on the con tray, those who endeavoured misrepresents them, .in attempting, to paint others, gave the colouring that distinguished themselves; since, instead-of say ing people from death, they rejoiced in destroying them unprovoked that they used their:attendants with great haughtiness and cruelty; and avaricious. coveted every thing they saw, than which there .could not be a stronger instance of meanness this was certainly arguing in the stile of good' sense, and nettled Diego extremely, who revenged himself upon Alvaro, by leading him and his two. companions into many inconveniencies,.having per faded him to dismiss his Indians, and trust himself' for safe conduct to a Spanish settlement;. To those whom Diego's endeavouring set the Indians again t- Alvaro may surprise,. it is necessary to. observe, that his sole reason for it was, his not being able to bear that other people should be treated with a: deference and refpea that he and his followers had: been always strangers to :. neither from their conduct did they deserve it;,However, Alvaro and his men. made a shift to, reach St. Michael's, where Nunez de Gufman the governor received them very tenderly, giving them. good cloaths; for they had gone for a great while naked, and after that. he shipped them off. font Mexico-,^N9 C A - H A. P
C HA P. III. Ferdinand de Soto obtains leave to conquer Florkda;,is ennobled, and made governor of Cuba; his life, character, and juvenile adventures; he arrives in Florida with a great force; he has ftveralJkirmnijhes w;itb the people; and ly chance meets Ortiz, who bad lived among the Indians many years; they come to the dominions of Parasols, and from thence pro re d to Cale, without being able to reconcile the na times cordially to them. NEITHER the ill success of Narvaez, nor the,hard{hips sustained by his followers, could deter Ferdinand de Soto from trying what advantages were to be drawn from an expedition to Flo rida; in support of which he entreated the pro action of his catholic majesty, which was. not only readily granted, hut also a commission, appointing him governor of Cuba, (that being a convenient place of arms) and president of Florida, with the the and rank of marquils.,Ferdinand was a man of an aspiring genius, en duet with prudence and valour; he was fun to a gentleman of Badajoz, and had raised himself his sword; he first went to the Indies with governor Peter Araias Dea ita, and afterwards attended Pizarro in the conquest of Peru, where his military virtues were remarkable; and he was made lieu tenant-general.,Having assembled about one thousand men, and ten sail of ships, he set out for Cuba, and arrived at the port of St. Jag, after a prosperous voyage. This island is two hundred leagues long from leaf to west, and between fourteen and sis teen form north to south: it has six principal towns, the largest being St. Sago and Havannal,,3-,e~ which
- 77-;s Ã³f7-g3 sk-s 7-3s j-s lo7-ss ^T-J6 7-53,! $ T e rT . . a,I ab r a d a r ! t s r 4 } I} E: S Â· T E St N c,r wit o 4Â° I.' iioriA *&, .,t~, E,8f,, j A Ti l A | N T r CJ^. ') ,'rÂ»,^, . Fm. f'' .'"-'. ' . s - l~l^^s^^< -0 C E A y ^ .CP-J"*^-^ l Wan:,1o W 9- I . Jb .o,cs Terra jni i. ; [eFiT | ^ w SJ O-rT:. Asa. CA . P J a 47rt.?r , .
which ae. well .peopled and driive.a.confiderable .trade; the hours' are .we9l-bhuiltahd the people rich 'there is ogj. pasture so' hors s, which thrive well here; also bogs and oxen; and green grass all the year: the soil is fertile, and bears figs, oranges, lemons, and several fruits well known in Europe, besides many that thrive only in' the American :cl mates; there-is: also plenty .of gold to be found here. - . . 'shaving made Tome necessary. regulations in .this place, hee-left the government to the care of'. is wise and remarked with nine hundred foot and upwards of three hundred horfe,.on n i2thh of May, 1539; and on the .rift, anchored in the lay of the Holy Ghost, on. thereat-fide of the gulph of Mexico, in 27 degrees north latitude, landing about three hundred, meant two hundred.iand thirty horses to lighten the (hip, about two leagues from a town belonging to a cacique called Ucita ; and encamped them on the sea-side, where next morning they sustained an attack from. the Indians, which, as they were on their guard, they soon ren tered ineffeeAual.,By degrees he brought all his men on hire, except the tailors, who in eight days piloted the ships up to the towns and Vasquez Porcallo go ing out to forage with seven men, was met by six' Indians, who discharged their arrows at him : two of the Indians he killed, but the other four escaped, the men that pursued them falling'with their horses in a bog.,The next day, the army, under the direction of Lewis de Mofcofo, who acted as his major. general, marched into the town, where the governor already was; it consisted of about eight houses, the. firongetl of which,, built.on an eminence, was the residence of Ucita, who had retired to the hills, fearing a retaliation of the ill usage he had,given
given to some-of Narvaez's flowers, who had fal :en into his-hands andnbeen-murdered. The;houfe were all made of timber, covered with palm-être Leaves; and in one of them were found fonte pearls threaded like beads, but dulled with smoke;, there the natives wear, by. way of ornament,.'about thei Writs and necks ,Gallegos was now went out with forty horse and eighty foot to make some prisoners; and Lobillc being dispatched another way with fifty soldiers, soon returned, bringing with them four female cap. times, and six of his men wounded, one of whom disdain a very little time; but, about two leagues from the town, the former met a party of Indians, armed with bows and arrows, marching in-a regular peaceable manner, on whom his people would have fallen, without waiting any command, had they not retired swiftly to the neighbouring woods, when they saw the Spaniards advance' upon them in a hostile manner;. however, one man flood to receive them, to transfix whom, a person of the name of Nieto had already railed his lance, when he made the sign of the cross, and cried out in Spanish, "I1 am a Christian and a Spaniard;. spare " me, and recal my scattered friends, to whom I " owe my life, and whose intentions are peace " able.",This address caused Gallegos to halt,. who in this person, so little differing in appearance from the-Indians, discovered one of Narvaez's followers, called John Ortiz; on which he refrained the ill timed ardour of his people, and encouraging the scattered Indians to return, brought them all safe ly to the camp, to the great satisfaction of Soto, who was more particularly pleased with the acquisition of Ortiz, as in him he hoped to find an in interpreter, who would be of special service to him in his future progress,,?bhi
John Ortiz was of a good ;family in Seville; and,. having followed the fortune of Larvae 'was byt him dispatched from Florida, with letters-to' his wife then in Cuba; but, on his return, fell into'the. hands of the Indians, together with ariotherSpa- niard, whom they cut in pieces'for making some - sort of defence; but Ortiz was brought to the ca pique Ucita, who at first ordered him 'to be fu.' pended over a slow fire, and roasted alive; how ever, at the entreaty of his daughter,' Ortiz was sav ed, and appointed to protect the dead bodies near; the temple, from being carried away by the wolves,. who were generally busy at night. He was very, near losing his life; for, a wolf ran away with the child of an Indian chief, but was saved, up on its being found dead with a dart which Ortiz. had frock into its body, 'and the'child lying near it unhurt.,Some time after, Ucita being driven from this place by a neighbouring cacique, Ortiz lost both his post and favour; and it was already resolved tofacri. flee him to the devil; whence, who-had before sav ed him,, not only informed him of the danger,. but. directed him how and whither to escape, conduct, ing him a part of the way herself. He now fell' into the hands of Mucozo, to whom he promised; fidelity; and in return Mucozo assured him he would forward his-return home as much as possible and allow him, without any restriction, to, join the first Christians he could hear of: upon the coast; but this was an intelligence he now began to despair of, having been three years-with Ucita, and nine years with Mucozo, who had treated him. always with great hospitality, and now sent him with offers of peace and affiance to meet Soto, attended by some of his principal people the governor used those persons who came with Ortiz very humanely,.ectreating them to affuretheir,cacique: -
cacique, that his kindness to this Christian (hould never be forgot, but repaid in the most grateful manner; and then he dismissed them, having beer by them informed of a territory, thirty leagues far ther, belonging to a cacique called Paracofli, to whom Ucita and Mucozo paid tribute, and whose possessions were richer than any near the sea-side He was shortly after visited by Mucozo. in 'person whom he received with great affability, and. found him not only a man of good sense, but also seem. singly one who meant what he said; a character not common among the Americans, nor indeed can we boast much of this sincerity among the more civilized Europeans.,Not long after this interview, Soto, in imitation of Cortes's conduct, in circumstances not very different, sent his (hips, three or four coasting vessels except' ed, back to Cuba, with orders however to some of them to return at a certain time with provisions in one of them went Porcallo de Figura, who for some time had had a difference with the governor, and was moreover discontented at finding so many morasses, and thick impenetrable woods, without a prospect of treasure to pay their toil, or Indians of whom to make haves, which were much wanted in the mines of Cuba, and to search for which was his principal inducement to this expedition, wherein he had a principal command.',Though Soto behaved towards such of the natives as fell in his way with great mildness, and took all potable care to prevent irregularities, they used such Spaniards as they met with very in differently; and having surprized a party that were foraging they took one prisoner, whom they strip pet naked; and when they thought themselves out of danger, they sat down to eat, drink, and be merry with their wives; whom they left, together with their captive, in the hands of some Spaniards,that
that pursued them; the women were all brought to Soto, who used them civilly, and then dismissed; them.,Gallegos being sent forward. towards the domi nions of Paracofi, found it all the way a plentiful. count, abounding with vines, walnuts, pine, plum, oak, mulberry, &c. besides receiving in intelligence of people, at a place called Cale, who had plenty of provision, and much gold, 'of which they made (fields and head-pieces in their wars; of all these things he sent word to the governor, who prepared. to follow him, leaving the care of the shipping, with forty horse, to Caldron, whom while he recommended to Mucozo, he shrilly charged to avoid offending the natives on any ac count.,In the mean time Gall gos had sollicited 'a con terence with Paracofli' to no purpose; for he sent thirty of his people with very frivolous excuses, whom therefore Gallegos detained; ard being now joined by Soto and all his men, they're forward towards Cale, the governor himself leading an ad danced party of thirty horse and seventy foot: hav ing passed through a town that was forsaken by the inhabitants, they came to a river where the cur rent was very strong, carrying away one of their horses; however, the rest were brought over by means of a hauser, and the men passed upon a bridge of old trees that lay contiguous to the wa ter. In this march the Spaniards suffered a good deal; for the country being deserted, they found no sustenance, except beet-roots, which they ate with salt and water; and the. young mais flocks,, the mais being not ripe as yet, and the provisions they had brought with them having been soon con fume dat Cale they found mais enough observe them. lor three months, but every man was obliged compound
pound his own proportion in a wooden mortar, and sift the flour through their shirts of mails which was so very troublesome, that some chore rather to eat it parched; nay, not eat it till compelled by necessity. The Indians had abandoned this town on the approach of the Spaniards, but kept lurking about a neighbouring lake, whence they made a sally, and killed three of Soto's followers, as they were gathering maiz.,CHAP. IV. They make twenty eight priSoners, the principal of,whom endeavours to trick them and escape, but is entered in his flight by a blood-hound; they enter a territory belonging to three brothers; one of whom continues their violent enemy; who lays a trap for the decision of all the Spaniards, but is caught in it himself: a great instance of Indian 'perse. rate and resolution, as well as Spanish ginerojay which is but ill recited. - August the i'1th, 1539, Soto leftCale; A and being attacked the same day by party of Indians, put them to flight, making twenty eight prisoners: soon after this engagement, a per son who pretended to be a cacique, came and en treated their liberty, promising in return a good quantity of provision, and a guide for the army; the governor granted his request, but however kept him in safe custody till he should fulfil his agree ment : in order to which, he desired to be con duped within hearing of a party of Indians that skirted a neighbouring wood ; but 'he ;broke from his keepers as soon as he came in sight of them, an't ran so swiftly, that it was impossible for a Christian to pretend to pufiue: him whereupon Soto, Wh,was
was a witnesses his flight, ordered a hound that had been fished to be let after him, which passing many other Indians, feared the fugitive by the haunch, and held him till the captors came up, a circumstance which frightened-him so excessively, that they were not only supplied with provision, butter guide also conducted them through a better road than any they had passed for some time.-,In their march, however, they were often as failed by the natives, whom they fRill repulsed with loss; and having passed a morass, not without some difficulty, they entered the province of Acueray where they relied twenty days, not without being often alarmed by the natives; thence Soto pro needed to Occali, where he was met by the ca pique, whom he received with great-affability; and having got other guides from him, marchtedon towards Vitacucho, a province about fifty leagues - in extent, under the government of three brothers, one of whom took to arms on the approach of Soto, refuting all terms of peace, until some prisoners being taken, were released upon promising to carry a polite message from the Spaniards to him, which they did; and in consequence of it, he not only came to their camp, but also sent-his brothers word of their civil behaviour, and kept them Con any some time. Upon his brother's representations, the younger of the three entered into alliance with Soto; but the eldest, who was known by the name of the country, Vitacueho, detained all the messengers, except one, by whom he reproached his brothers for what they had done; and also lent word to the Spaniards, that if they offered to enter his territories he would put them to the cruellest tortures at could be devised. To this menace Soto-fent back such an answer as spoke his contempt of it,. nd at the same time gave the angry cacique buchan.
an idea of his resolution, and the courage of his followers, that he came in a: peaceable manner, gallantly attended, to the Spanish quarters, where having apologized for his indiscretion, he promised for the future his friendship; and was dismissed not a little pleased with his genteel reception but his submission was barely external;'for in the mean time he meditated the destruction us the Spaniards; and released ten thousand men, with which to cut them off the first favourable opportune. city :however, having entrusted Soto's four inter. prefers with his design, they applauded and en. courage him to put it in execution; but revealed it to John Ortiz, who communicated it to the go. vernon, by whom he was ordered to keep it secret; at the same time that he made use of proper pre. cautions to behave with the, same freedom as usual, and not give Vitacucho the smallest room to ia; give that he was discovered-When the plot was ripe for execution, the In. diana were drawn out very gaily trimmed, to the number of ten thousand, upon a neighbouring plain, with a wood dn their left, and a lake on their right hand; everyone having his arrows covered with grass lying before him, which they were to seize upon the word being given. Hither Vitacucho in cited the governor, as he said, to (hew him the manner in which his people exercised i the invite tion was complied with, and in return, as the great' eft compliment that could be paid to a prince, the Spaniards were ordered to march the same day in order of battle; with which the cacique, whom tt prevent all suspicion, Soto accompanied on foot having his armour privately under his coat, wr well pleased, as by that means, he imagined, h should have them all at once in the toil.,Wbs
When .the two leaders came to a particular spot, a musket, being the signal appointed for that pur pose, was fired, ;on which Soto threw off his upper garment, seized Vitacucho, and delivered him to some of his people ; then mounting his horse head ed his cavalry, which advanced quick, and bearing. down upon the main body of the Indians, made a: vast slaughter of them, soon putting them to, the rout, Come sheltering themselves in the covert of the wood, and others leaping into the lake the Spaniards killed numbers of them as they fled, and the muskets :and cross-bows were turned against them who had taken the water, in order to compel them to surrender; but, being excellent swimmers, they discharged their arrows as long as ever they lasted, mounting upon'each others backs to take the surer aim, whereby many of them were more fairly laid open to the cross-bows and musket balls, Being at length exhausted of weapons, they kept to the middle of the lake, which was but small,. hoping thereby to escape, but their Strength at last failing them, several of them came to lard and fur' rendered, whom the Spaniards helped out, and protected from harm, after they had remained' above twenty hours in the water; however, seven' remained there still, who seemed determined ra ther to peril than submit; but at last, twelve Spa niards, who were excellent swimmers, and men of great strength and activity, flung themselves in, with their swords in their mouths, and catching them by the hair of-their heads just as they were finking, brought them to land. Being examined by the governor, with regard to their obstinately persisting in their own destruction the principal of them answered, that having been entrusted with command, they thought they had no better way of convincing the cacique, that their defeat was owing neither to want of cou-rage
rage nor fidelity, but purely to ill fortune, than by dying with their honour. The governor, who was a man of. courage himself, and prized it very highly in others, treated them with: great cour. tefy,- and when-they were refreshed,; and. had. ga. there, through his care of them, sufficient strength after their fatigue, dismissed them with presents o! looking-glass s and. other tribes, that pleaTed them extremely, as being young men,, and three of them not more than eighteen years-old each; but first to the other four, who were much. older, and prin. pal officers, he declared in the presence of thei-cacique, that they merited death. for their treacherous designs; but to convince, them of the differ. hence between their dispositions and those of Chris hans,, he forgave them,, hopmpg.tht by this example they would deport themselves more honourably f9g .the future.,Soto, who had great humanity about him, now endeavoured by mildness and affability secure the: fidelity of the Indians, not allowing any of his followers to chain their prisoners,. or put them, to, any very toilsome works setting the cacique con faintly at his own table, and allowing him the whole town to range through: this usage uncertainly was far from deserving; for he set on, foot, and vi. grossly abetted another conspiracy against the Spaniards, the consequences of which, were near being fatal to. Soto and all his people.; so true is the observation, that there are, some people in whose nature vice is so firmly ingrafted, as was treachery in Vitacucho, that it can only be eradicated with life; and; the experience of this, certainly gives a fashion to the severity of many pro. meetings, which might otherwise be interpreted into cruelty.,,On the seventh day after the battle, Vitacucho, being as usual at dinner with Seto, started up,- suddenly,
suddenly, and gave .4 loud Cry; at. the same time struck the governor. wth. his clenched sift, and thea seizing him by lethe throat, attempted. to. firing! him, after which-bill with himto the ground.; but was Coon killed by sore Spanish officers, and the governor set at liberty: at the very same infit~; every other Indian. fell, upo the person to who: service he-was assigned,: with whatever weapon was next to hand, 'such as, pots, fire-brands, logs of, wood, &c. nor wag it without great difficulty they. were quelled. mot. of, them being at length cut.to. pieces, and the fezpaijnder. tied. to flakes., and lot to death by the Indian's Paracofli, who had been. for one time at liberty, and served. the. Spaniards very faithfully.,Vitacucho's brothers fill perishing in their disposition to peace, the governor abandoned their do Minions, and took a north-west rout towards Apa- lichen, a province of which he had heard some good accounts, where he arrived without any ma trial accident in a very short time; here he found that Capaci, the cacique, had retired from the city, and fortified himself in a wood about eight leagues-distant. Thither' to marched, attacked him in 'his entrenchments; and, after a very desperate refit tance, took him prisoner, being a very infirm man, and carried in a litter, putting his army entirely to the rout. But 'the Indians often afterwardsinfeft- ing his camp, surprising his people in small parties, and proving otherwise very troublesome, the ca pique promised to prevent these alarms, provided he was allowed to go among them a little way into the country; which was accordingly granted, he being sent under a guard, who being not so care ful of him as they should have been, he made h1i escape upon all-four, and was carried offun- known to his keepers by some of his people. The,Spaniards,
Spaniards, when they missed him, to excuse them selves told Soto, that Capaci had certainly flow from .them through the air: to which afferteijo calmly answered; " That it was not unlikely, so! "c the Indians were certainly sorcerers :" not tht this was his furious opinion, but his answer wa only in derived of them'who could suppose it'. 'It being the month bs October, and winter ad dancing upon them, Soto resolved to pass that s' son here; for which purpose, Lewis Mofcof6.hi major-general quartered his people within a ieagiu or a league and a half of the town ; the country all round yielding store of French-beans, and plums better than any to be found in Spain, and plenty of maize,' . . . End of the SECOND Volume. * \ \


A CO M PE N D I UM,Of AUTHENTIC and Entertaining G OY A G E S, Digested in a Chronological Series.,The whole exhibiting clear View of the CUSTOMS, MANNERS, RELxoION, GOVERNMENT, COMMERCE, and natural Histories most Nations,in the KNOWN WORLD.' ulcerated and adorned with a Variety of genuine Charts, Maps, Plans, Heads, &c. curiously engraved the SECOND Editions O L. III. LONDON: item for W. Strain; J. Livingston; W. Aston; J.DODSLEY; T.CASLON; T. Lowness; Nicol; RICHARDSON and URQUHART; T. effigies; and B. COLLINS at Salilburyt,MDCCLXVI.
COLLECT I ON;,O F O0 Y A SG. VOYAGES for the , Discover RY,of FLORIDA.,CHAP. V. ' - to's brigantines are brought round to lRparlaen ; and Maldonado is sent with one of them upon.a cruize: Jfme presents are sent to the Havannah; Soto re cives intelligence of a very rich country governed by a woman; for which befits out; the dress and buildings of the natives of Toalli; deferred: Soto areas a roofs at Achefe, and receives affiance from the cacique of Acute: clogs more valuable than sheep and good food; the Spaniards treated with great humanity; an odd dream of an Indian, who there upon turns Chrjtian.,S the governor had laid aside any further thoughts of returning to the bay of the Holy Ghost, he sent John Danufco with thirty horse, to order the brigantines ici he had left there to the port of Acute, not from Apalachen, and to desire Caldron, who VOL. IlI. B had
had been left to guard the place, to march by land tojoinhim.,John Danufco performed his commission with great expedition, having some slight skirmishes with the natives, with little loss, and embarking on board one of the brigantines, arrived soon at Apa- lichen; as did also Caldron, who had traversed the country, to the great joy of Soto, who sent Maldonado to make a two months cruize along the coast to the westward, and mark exaaly all the ports, creeks, harbours and capes that he should meet in his course this injunction Maldonadq performed very ex ally, bringing an account of a fine harbour called Ochus; with which intelligence Soto dispatched him to the Havannah, together with a present of twenty women slaves to his wife, of whom he much de sired to hear news; also with orders to lay in a flock of provision, and meet him at the new disco vexed port of Ochus, which he was determined to visibly land, and if he did not find that he carrie that summer, then he desired him to return with the lip to the Havannah, and wait till the ensuing sum mer, when, if he came back, he should not fail to meet him among the Indian prisoners, there was one in the hands of the treasurer, who was brought be fore the governor on account of his having often been heard to say, he was not a native of the pro. vince wherein he was taken, but that he came from a very distant region towards the rising-fun; which he had left very young to traffic; that it was go versed by a woman, and was called Cofachiqui; that the capital city was very large, and many neighbouring lords paid tribute to their queen, in fine cloaths, pearl, gold, and other precious com modifies; but what was most wonderful in this young /
young man, was, that he not only knew how the gold was dug 'out of the mine, but was also ac quaint with the manner of melting and refining' it.,This account, which was not in the least doubt ed, had such an effect upon the avarice and curio. city of the Spaniards, that they longed to marcia' thither; arid no' sooner did the springs '540 ap pear, than they left the' province of Apalachen,' and set forward for Cofachiqui; every man carry' ing mais for his own provision for some days; most of their Indian prisoners being weak and sickly, therefore not able to carry burthens. - The fourth day of their journey they-were flopped by a deep' river; however, forme of their best swimmers gain ing the opposite side, made fast a rope from bank to bank, which served as a guide to a raft that car cried over the rest of the army. On the izth of March five Spaniards going to reconnoitre an Indian town called Capacious, were set upon by the In diana, who killed one, and sorely wounded three' others; the-fifth making his-escape, alarmed' the camp; on which the Indians.retired'into the-woods, whither it was not possible to follow them. On the 21ft of 'this month they came :6 a town called Toalli, where they found a difference in the. buildings, which, in.all'others places that they had fled, were covered with straw, but here were closed with reefs. The Indians here have houses r winter, and houses for summer; the latter'hay- n their fire-place wherein they-bake their bread; nd do other things necessary: in a kitchen, detach d from the reft'of the building; but the walls of he former are well plaistered with clay, both with n and without, the'door is.very small, fitted only o admit one perform; and shut close at night, when good fire is kindled in the midst of the houre,,B 2 soso
that it is as warm as a stove: the apartment wherein they keep their mais, is floored with cane hurdle, and raised from the ground upon four flakes, to preserve it from the wet.,The houses of the principal men are larger than the others, adorned with galleries in their fronts, which serve as canopies to cane seats fixed beneath, for the masters to spend the evening. Near them stand lofts, in which they lay up for use such pre sent as are brought them by the Indians, as mais, deer-skins, and mantles that look something like blankets, and are made of a flax composed of the inward bark of a tree, and a species of nettles; with these the women cover themselves, girding one round the waist, and throwing another oves the shoulders, with the right-hand thrust out: the men wear only one of these about their shoulders; and they cover their privities with a deer-skin, which they dye of different colours, as red, black, &c. and this art they are such masters of, that they make them look like cloth in grain.: they make a sort of shoes of this Ikin.,Soto left this place the 24th of March; and the following day Benito Hernandez, a Portuguese, war drowned in passing a small river: after this accident they came to a town called Achefe, where the Indian! fled to avoid them; but some few who were made prisoners, and released after being civilly used, told the cacique of it, who, thereupon, visited Soto in person, ordered his people provisions, and supplied him with a guide to Acute, a neighbouring pro. vince,.the cacique of which was very rich and pow. erful.; but before he left Achefe, he erected a large wooden-cross in the market-place, which he order. ed them to reverence, being, as he told them, pul up in honour of the Creator of the world, whc lift his life on a cross for the redemption of man. kind. At Clue Pe he as well received by the cacique
pique, who Cent 2oo0 Indians' to attend him. with presents of mais, two hens, and some dogs, which were as welcome a gift as if they had been fat sheep, for they had long been strangers to the table of flesh-meat, so that a dog afforded many dainty morsels: before they left this place the cacique pre seated them with 200 tameness, or Indians to car ry burdens, which were singularly serviceable to them the country, through which they had pasTed for some time, was fruitful and well watered, forming in most places a-beautiful landscape, and the people behaving with great civility and hospitality, par circularly in one place, where, as they approached, the inhabitants demanded whether they intended peace or war; and when they assured them they meant no hostility, they were conducted to good quarters, and plentifully furnished with refresh ments.,Their next stage was Cofachi, the cacique of which came out to meet the Spaniards; quartering them in his principal town, and retiring to a neigh' pouring village to make room for them; supplying, them with mais, and other necessaries, sufficient-to subsist them for even days journey, it being so far to Cofachiqui; also ordering 4000 tameness to-carry their baggage, and 4000 others, in arms, to assist and defend them. The cacique was thus ambitious of serving Soto, in hopes of his making war for him upon the people of Cofachiqui, who were his enemies; and the latter in some measure pro missed to espouse his quarrel, in consequence of which he was presented with a rich fable-mantle, which the cacique took, for that purpose, from his own shoulders, and is a peculiar distinction paid only to the greatest people about this time the native of Cofachiqui, who had first given them information of that country's 3 and
and induced them to set out in search of it, being terribly frightned with a dream, in which he imagined the devil beat him for guiding the Spaniard, thither, begged'to be made.a Christian; and being accordingly baptized by the name of Peter, was nc longer ranked among the slaves, but allowed to sit on horseback, that he might thereby be the.bettei enabled to recover is strength, which was much exhausted in his contest with the evil spirit chap. VI. Sto with his army marches forward to Cafachigui,,but loses his way in a drfart; a plentiful territory discovered; Seto's rew allies are difmij;dfr their cruelty; he at length arrives at Cefachigui, after having had a confidence with the queen, wis gives him a rich necklace ; the delicacy of an Indian no. tblman, who cuts his throat; deceived in their hast offending gold in this country. O T O putting his 4000 armed allies first, and S after them the baggage, brought up the rear with his Spaniards, and thus began his march for Ccfachiqui, taking up his quarters at night apart, and keeping a very trie look-out, because of having so many Indians in his army. The third day after their leaving Cofachi they entered the desart, in which they marched six days; but qn the seventh they missed their way, nor. did the Indians know how to guide them, the .cacique honestly confessing that none of his people had ever been at Cofachi- qui, but that they often met the natives of it on the banks of a neighbouring river, where they had sore disputes about the fishery. There was so much simplicity, and such an appearance of un dissembled honesty, in his manner of telling this circumstance
constance, that Soto, who, at his first being led array, had some suspicion of sinister dealing, now entirely changed his opinion the governor encouraging his men, however, the best he could, continued his march till he came to the banks of a river, which was not fordable; and as his provisions could not hold out till floats could be made, he ordered out four parties of his people, each attended by a thousand Indians,.to discover the country. That which was commanded by John Danufco came up with a populous town, in which was found good store of .provisions; with an account of which an express was dispatched to Soto; who advanced thither with his people as fast as possible. But, before he arrived, the Indians had fallen upon, 'and murdered, the inhabitants in the night, besides plundering temple, which was a burial place; a method of proceeding that irritated Soto so very much, that he refused to be any further seconded by them; and absolutely. insisted on their returning to their own province; which injunction the cacique at length obeyed; and they departed, not at all displeased, as they were well supplied with provisions, and some trifling presents distributed among their principal officers.,Soto proceeded by the river side, the' country on all sides being very pleasant, but abandoned because of the cruelty committed by the natives of Cofachi. The van-guard, consisting of thirty horse, was led by John Danufco, who had orders to search out a fordable place; and in the night he discovered a light, and heard a dog bark; but, on a closer in flexion, he found there belonged to a place oh the other side the river; which, on the ensuing day, Soto sent a hundred men, with a Christian Indian called Mark, and Peter the new convert, to reconnoitre When they came opposite to it, Peter, who was a native of the place, hailed some persons 4 which
which he saw on the Shore near the town. Soon after, six of the inhabitants crossed over in a ca noe, who were received by the governor, he being by that time arrived, in a chair of tate, which was carried among the baggage for extraordinary occasions when they came into his presence, having even rented the fun and moon, they made him a low how, and then inquired " whether he was for peace " or war ," And to his answering " that he meant ," peace, and flood in need of provisions ;" they replied, " he was welcome; that peace was their '- desire, but a plague which had lately raged a- " mongfi them had caused a scarcity of provisions, i' notwithstanding which they would communi " cate his request to their sovereign princess, who," they said, "( was a maiden, and queen of all Cosa-,chiqui." With this remonstrance they took their leave of Soto, returned in their. canoes, and in a few hours after two much larger appeared upon the river; in one's them were the frx ambassadors; in the other, which was handsomely adorned, was a curious ca copy, and beneath it, upon a matted floor, were two cushions, on which the princess herself reposed, attended by six ladies when she landed, the general advanced to re clive her; and being both seated, the addressed the governor politely, saying, " That the was for '. ry, for the sake of him and his people, that pro 't visions were so very scarce; however, the had,two flore-houses for the poor, one of which she " submitted to his disposal; but begged that she might be permitted to keep the other, in confine deration of the wants of her people." At the same time she told him, " the had 2000co measures of " meal in a neighbouring town, which he might ' command besides, if he thought it necessary," she
she would-suit her own house and city to ac " corporate his nin."-,To this declaration the general, who was enraptured with her affable and generous demeanour, an swerved, that he could-not think of putting her to the inconveniency of changing her abode; that part of the town would serve him and his people; that he should always retain a most grateful sense of the fa yours conferred upon him, and that he would con vince her of it, by making such dispositions, that neither she, nor any of her subjects, should have the least room to complain of the most trivial misbehaviour in him or any of his followers then Ihe took a firing of pearls from her neck, and, by the hands of the interpreter, gave it to the governor, at the same time entreating he would nor take it amiss, that she did not present it with her own hand, which the was only restrained from, through fear of its being thought a breach of mo defy. The governor rising up, received and kissed it, as a mark of his respect; and in return pre enter her with a very fine ruby, which he wore on his finger. After these ceremonies The took her' eave, having given the Spaniards a most advantageous impression of her. And soon after her land ng on the other side, canoes and floats were order d for the army, on which it soon passed the-river, nd was quartered in the city. The mother of this princes, who was a widows nd inhabited a town about twelve leagues from this, being invited to see the Spaniards, not only refused come, but sent a severe message to her daughter, or having given a reception, so very cordial, to persons with whom she had not the least acquaint nee. Soto, in hopes of mollifying this old lady, went John Danufco, with a noble Indian, and a train of thirty horsemen, richly caparisoned, to repeat and enforce the invitation. On the journey they
all dismounted, and sat down forefeet themselves under the shade of a very large tree, where the Indian, who appeared very pensive, throwing off his mantle, drew all the arrows, one by one, out of his quiver, among which were some of very curious workmanship, and while the Spaniards were employed in examining them, he plunged. one, pointed with flint like a dagger, into his throat, so very effectually, that he instantly fell dead. The only reason they could give for this rafh.aation, which gave them all vast surprize, was, their believing he preferred death to the danger of delivering a disagreeable mirage to the old lady i who, as John Danufco was soon after informed, had quitted her usual residence, and withdrawn, it was not well known whither; upon which he returned to the main body.,In the country of Cofachiqui they found a light mouldring sort of copper, which, from its bright colour, might, with the injudicious, have passed for gold, and led Peter into the mistake of gold be ing plenty here: however, they got a large quantity of pearl, having obtained leave to ransack the graves of the nobility, in which many valuable ones-were interred with the dead; most of them were as large as peas, and the king's fifth weighed up wards of 5oolb,,H A P.
C H A P. VII. They quit Cofathiqui, and march. to Chaque: a surprizing lower of hail falls they are well re civet at Canafaqua, and at other places; the he newly of a soldier rewarded; Soto manifests great presence of mind; the cacique of Coza's reception of him described; the vaftJlature of the cacique of Tafcalufa and his family ; a conspiracy against the Spaniards at Manila. IT appearing from the firiaefl Inquiry, thatcher was no gold in this territory, Soto re solved upon marching farther up the country; and, for the greater conveniency of obtaining provisions,. divided his army into two bodies, leading one him self, and giving the command of the other to Gal. legs; the lady who had entertained him so gene roufly, sending four of her principal fubjeas along with his army to direct their march, and influence the cacique of Gunwale, a neighbouring province to. which they bent their course, to receive the Spaniards as friends and allies, otherwise to assure him of her enmfty.,After a march of seven days, they entered Chaque a barren territory; the inhabitants of which: go naked, are very mild, and generally lean,, feed ing on roots, herbs, and wild beasts, which they shoot with their arrows, Here they were alios killed by a shower of hail,. every hailstones being as large as a pigeon's egg, but they were happily sheltered by the trees The cacique .of this place brought them two deer sins as a most valuable present; and the magistrate of the town presented them with two hens from hence they came in five days to Allay, where the horses being weak,, they rested for some',.1 &6 time;
time; the country hereabouts was full of hills, and distant from Cofachiqui, as well as they could com pute, two hundred and fifty leagues: leaving this place,' they continued their route through a varied landscape of groves, desarts, and pasture lands, ge neatly well watered; all which, by the manner of Soto's progress being marked in the English atlas, appears to be the trad now called Caroline's soon as they approached Gunwale, the cacique came out to receive them in an amicable man ner, with three hundred hogs, which being in good order, were a valuable acquisition, where flesh meat was so very scarce; and before they en tered Canafaqua, a town a little farther on, they were met by twenty Indians loaded with mulberries of which, together with nuts and plums, this country yields great plenty. Their next jour ney wAs to Chiaha, a town situated on an island in the midst of a large river, fordable on every side; the cacique met them with fifteen Indians loaded with mais, and soured them he had twenty barns full at their disposal; he also informed them that, thirty leagues off, there was plenty of gold; but same Spaniards, whom Soto sent to view it, brought back the mortifying news of its being copper.,in the neighbourhood of this island there were good osiers, that produced rich pearl, but the na times generally destroyed their lustre, laying them on the fire to ope none of the soldiers in eating his dinner one day, found a penal as big as a hazel nut, which he pre seated to the governor for his lady; who not only generously refused the compliment, but also paid the king's fifth of its value, being four hundred ducats, out of his own pocket, as a reward for the soldier's honesty. In this place, they found gourds filled with oil of walnut, being of a pleasant taste, also,bears
bears grease which looked like melted butter, and good honey, an uncommon sight hereabouts. The adjacent country was pleafant,,and the fields well flocked with mais. Here Soto rested thirty days to recruit his men and horses, which had been much fatigued with the heat of the weather, and rugged ness of the road. Being now joined by Galleys, he marched northward towards Acofte, within sight of which town he pitched his camp, and went for ward but indifferently attended to salute the cacique, who seemed inclined to be very friendly; but while he was in conference with him, the inhabitants pro yoked at the insolence of some of his people, who had rudely taken away some provisions, fell upon them with cudgels, and belaboured them very heartily: Soto having in some measure seen their imprudence, (hatched up a cudgel himself, and as fisted the Indians, who, admiring his disinterested justice, immediately defiled. So much presence of mind .certainly saved a world of confusion; but the governor fearing the Indians might be tempted to serve up a second course of the same sort of fare, evacuated the territory of Acofte as speedily as possible, and took his route to Coza, a large fruitful country, where he was well received; and when he came in sight of he principal town, the cacique was brought out in is litter, borne upon mens shoulders, to receive im; he was richly dressed with a large sable mantle, aching almost to his heels, and a beautiful diadem f various coloured feathers on his head; before him went several musicians playing on a sort of flute, ad he was followed by more than one thousand of is subjects. The country afforded good pasturage, and was ell watered; besides, it yielded variety of plums, vernal sorts of fine flavored grapes, the vines that ore them winding spontaneously about the trees,,and
and excellent mais; here the Spaniards were enter gained with great hospitality, and the caciquein- cited Soto to winter, which he told him was his in mention; but first he would go a little farther to ex amine the country, and provide for the conveniency of trade, which was the occasion of his voyage.,Soto's principal design was to search for gold or silver mines, and he began to be very much vexed at not meeting with any; besides he resolved to pay another visit to the brigantines which he had left at Achufi, believing it to be the nearest port, though he was then within sixty leagues of that part of the sea of Carolina, now known by the name of Cape Fear, but of this he was entirely ignorant the cacique of Coza accompanied him to the borders of Tafcalufa, where he took his leave, the people of that country being his enemies. On his entering the frontiers, he was met by the cacique's ofn, who, in his father's name, said he came to treat of peace; he was only eighteen years old, but not less than seven feet high; and behaved very respectfully conducting them to his father's city, where they found the old gentleman, who was fill taller than his son, sitting under a tent upon a mount, be fore his own door, surrounded by many of his officers who kept an obedient distance; and over him was held an umbrella of deer akin, handsomely co loured black and white, and resembling taffata : he role up and advanced twenty paces to receive the governor, whom he seated next to himself.,Soro left this place the thursday after; and the cacique offering to conduct him part of the way, was mounted upon one of the tallest baggage horses, notwithstanding which, his feet hung but a few inches from the ground. The first night of their reach, they had but indifferent quarters; up on the banks of a river, which they passed the next .ay with some difficulty upon boats, there was sullenness
sullenness about the Indians, that gave Soto room to fufpea fomenii:hiefl; ,andItheir abrupt answers to an inquiry made after two Spaniards who were Â· mining, ct-nfifrned re ti e pinion-On which a party of horse was ordered to advance and vicw'the next quarters, which. were but five miles distant; and there returning, reported they had met no opposition aut.that the townowas-better fortified .than any thing they. had hitherto seen in this:part of the world; besides under colours attending the Spa nisi forces) vast numbers.'of Indians were met to gether.,Upon this intelligence, Soto advanced to the head of his army, arid leading the van; which con sifted of one hundred horse, and a hundred and fifty foot, came up to the towns which was called Ma villa, about eight o'clock in the morning. Manilla contained about eighty houses, each one large enough to afford quarters for a regiment of men ; the whole was surrounded with large pieces of timber ram med deep into the ground, the void spaces between each were filled with a strong cement of earth and straw; and at proper distances were erected towers, with little holes to shoot through. There was a large square in the midst of the town, in which the cacique told Soto there was a house prepared for him and some of his people; and for the rest there were huts erected without the walls of the town. To this direction he answered, that he would dispose of his people when Lewis Mofcofo, his major-general, came up. In the mean time, the cacique retired to a neighbouring dwelling-house, here there was then a meeting of the principal .indian chiefs, and it afterwards appeared the entire. destruction of the Spaniards was concerted ,CHAP.
C HAP. Vii .great battle between the Indians and Spaniards, in,whlicb the latter are victors; Soto proceeds towards thc-fea-coafl, but quits it soon, fear of his people deserting; pages a river near CEicoza, with fine difficulty ; the town is burned with fiery arrows; and the Spaniards ife all their treasures and plunder they defeat a Throng body of Indians; they reach the river Mijifipi, and are held in great veneration by the inhabitants. Sots, who, tho' not apprized, was yet jealous of their designs, ordered the horses to be kept ready saddled and bridled till all his forces came up; in the. mean time he sent a person to deliver a message to the cacique, who was refused admittance to him, which the other pressing to obtain, the In tian who opposed him, exclaimed in an angry tone against him and the Spaniards; and at the same moment levelled his bow at some two or three that were then passing by, but was prevented by Galle - gos, who happening to come up just at that instant, cut him open from the neck to the waist, so that he fell dead without speaking.,Immediately every thing assumed the appearance of hostility and confusion; and Soto and his at tenants mounting their horses, retired regularly out of the town to join their brethren, the cacique pur suing them at the head of ievcn hundred men, who were all assembled almost in a moment.; but these were con repulsed and drove back to the walls by a troop of horse supported by a body of musketeers, who followed close at their heels, and endeavoured to enter the town with them; but were prevented by a shower of arrows and stones which obliged them to halt; and in a few minutes after, a vigor-sous
vous rally was made upon them from the town, which the Spaniards repulsed without breaking their ranks. They continued thus skirmishing for some time till the whole camp came up, when the gene. rat dismounting, advanced at the head of two hun, died men armed with battle-axes, and began to cut down their gates and-flakes; when, after a very Short labour, a sufficient breach being made, he mounted again, and entered the town at the head of a body of horse, which trampled down numbers f people-that opposed them very courageously, but in a manner extremely disordered. What galled them most in this engagement, were the Indian when supported here and there by some men, who grew stones and shot arrows at them from the galleries and tops of the houses; to which they were t lati obliged to set fire, and numbers perifhed-mi- rally in the flames; while others rushing out to ape, fell upon the swords of the Spaniards, so at there was a very terrible slaughter. This battle was fought on St. Luke's day, being he I8th of October, 1540; it lasted nine hours, hen about-sunset the Indians were entirely de acted, eleven hundred of them killed, and amongst hem the cacique's son, and it was thought the cacique himself perished in the flames; some when who were made prisoners, declared that their husbands had been summoned hither to share the oils of the Spaniards, of whose destruction they ere sure, and that all the women round the country had been invited to assist at a magnificent feast which was to have been made, consequential-to it, honour of the fun. Of the Spaniards, forty might were killed on the for, thirty-five died soon after of their wounds, and forty-five horses were ft. Soto remained in Manilla a fortnight after this title, to observe the disposition of the natives; but,the
the flower of the people having been cut off then in, there was not the leat attempt made to prevent their deaths, and provisions were brought in wil great submission, and in plenty. Soon after a part that had been sent out to view the country town the sea, brought advice that Maldonado was ft making discoveries upon the craft. This intell hence determined Soto to march as far as the mou of the river Alibamous, having a great inclination to settle a colony at Anchufi; but he quitted th coast soon, being'afraid that his people, who wet not in the best humour imaginable, would take a opportunity of quitting him and returning'to Cuba wherefore he took his route north-west town Chicoza, a well peopled country, affording plena of mais: in his progress hither he was opposed t the natives in several places; they particularly di pouted the pass of a river with him, but having bus two large boats in twelve days, without their know ing any thing of it, he launched them before the In diana were aware of it, having drawn them to th liver side upon rollers.,On board of each he put forty musketeers, and many cross-bows, with tome horses, which gait ing the opposite flore, not without blood-she maintained their ground till the second embarkation arrived, when they beat the natives quite from thei poRts: and though he afterwards endeavoured t bind their friendship, by presenting them with son trifling baubles, it was to no purpose, as appeare from his being attacked in the night by three differ went parties of them, which killed forty Spaniard! and fired the town wherein he quartered with lier! arrows, which burned whatever they fell upon with incredible fury; however, Soto charged them will his usual resolution, and in a very short time rout ed them with prodigious slaughter; but not all hi courage and precaution was sufficient to prevent
wo thirds of the town from being consumed, to ether, with most of the pearls and provision, and n general whatever treasure or plunder they had ga here in their long and tiresome march. The destruction of this town put them to vast inconveniences during the remainder of the winter, which was far from being a mild one.,On the 25th of April, 154r, he left Chicoza, and proceeded towards Alabama, where having earned that there was a fort garrisoned by four thousand Indians, who were enemies, he attacked hem with his foot polling the horse, which could not enter the building, at some little distance: the besieged made a very desperate rally, but were vi proudly repulsed, the Spaniards following the ad vantage so very closely, that they entered the fort with them pell-mell, making a most dreadful slaughter while such as endeavoured to escape their words, by throwing themselves from the walls, ere trampled to death by the horse, and some few f them made prisoners; it was thought there fell bove two thousand Indians in this action. From Alabama they came to Chifca, upon the banks of the river since known by the name of the mississippi, which is the largest river yet known in orth-America; here they surprized and made prisoners some of the natives, whom they set at liber y upon the cacique's offering to supply them with provisions, and live with them upon peaceable terms; e dwelt upon the ridge of a steep hill, and there ere steps going up to his house. Soto having melted in this place sixteen days to refresh his sick, arched up the river in search of a place where it as not so very rapid, which at length finding, after four days march, he ordered two boats to be built, in which he and his people crossed into the ne province of Cafquin, where they were civilly treated; the cacique inviting the governor and,principal
principal officers to his house,. where he entertain them very generously. Cafquin is a high champ country, affording plenty of walnuts, mulberry red and grey plumbs, with variety of other fruit besides plenty of skins, and good fish.,As the weather was pretty hot, Soto encamp his people in an open plain, where many lar lady trees, that were scattered up and down, forded them a delightful shelter. Here the ca qne made a formal visit to Soto, preceded by few rat of his people singing, and leading in his tr two blind men, for whose sight he prayed Soto interceded with his great and powerful parent fun, for from that body they supposed him to ha descended; however, the governor declined coi them that signal piece. of service, but made them short sermon, in which he laid down some of t principal points of the Christian faith; and co eluded with advising them to put their truss in Saviour of mankind, in whose power it was to flow not only fight, but every blessing. Howe so great was the veneration they had conceived Soto, that this answer did not rightly satisfy the anse they feared, his refusing to perform the cu arose from tome offence they had given; nor wa possible to dissuade them from it.,C H A
CH A P. IX. o Visit Capaha; and his Indian allies commit a great deal of mi chief; but take to their heels at be in threatened by their foes: the cacique of Capaha treats with Seto, to whom he makes a present of his two wives: an odd way of catchingfijh; fat found in Cayas; how the people fine A ; a disagreement in historians.; a skirmi.[ between the Spaniards and the natives; the bravery of an Indian, whom Silvester kills.,H E next place which Soto intended to visit was Capaha, the inhabitants of which were enmity with those of Cafquin, and the cacique wing now a mind to manifest his anger, insisted n escorting. the Spaniards, from whom he con led his real intention, with a body of five hun d armed men, having sent some of his people ward to throw a bridge over a river, that they ft necessarily pass; a work which was expedition as well as artfully executed. As they approach Capaha, the cacique of Cafquin leading the van,his Indians, as if to guide the Spanish army, ached a wrong party before him to the town, ere they made many prisoners, among whom e two handsome wives of the sovereign, and ing finished their outrages, would have curly burned the town, had not the Spaniards ar d very timely, and laid a restraint on their pro dings. s soon as Soto arrived, he checked Cafquin y severely for what he had done, and freeing prisoners, sent them with offers of peace and ndfhip to the cacique of Capaha, who had drawn to a fortified island about three leagues at) but rejected them with the bitterest threatens
of revenge; whereupon Soto prepared to attack him. Cafquin, who had ordered canoes to be brought up, in expectation of Something of. this sort, was extremely rejoiced at this answer, and soon had them in readiness to transport the Spaniards to the island, where they forced Capaha's sirs entrenchment, to the great terror of his women, though not without strong opposition. This in. creased at the second pallisadoes, from whence the people of Cafquin being told they should dearly re. pent this invasion, when the Christians were gone, took to their heels, and hastening to the water-side carried off forty canoes; and had not the rest been defended, and kept by a guard of Spaniards, not one had been left behind. While this hurry o their retreat continued, Soto ordered his people to be drawn off from the fort, for fear of being thrown into disorder; however, Capaha did not permit hi to return to the charge, sending a messenger to tel him he was ready to accept of the terms of peace he had before refused, and if he pleased, he would visit him next day, but not taking the least notice of the Cafquinians.,Soto was well pleased with his submission, and returned from the island to the town, to which Capaha came the following day; and having sir restored to their repositories, with great devotion, the bones of his ancestors, which Cafquin had displaced, he hastened to Soto's quarters, whom he addressed with much politeness, which the other returned, and having given him an accurate and brief account of the state of the country, he told Cafquin, who was near the governor, in manner that spoke prodigious contempt, " That he " might thank these strangers for the vanquished " situation in which he then saw him; but assured him, that he might depend upon feeling " th(
the weight of his: displeasure upon their departure Then he; implored the finland moon:to' ant them good seasons, and without permitting pasquin to reply, entered into conversation with to, who, notwithstanding their animosity, recoiled therefore his departure, and they, dined at c same table with him. After this accommoda n, Capaha's two wives were restored to him, a rcumfance that pleated him extremely, and he resented them, as marks of his respect, to Soto; ho refused to accept of them athirst but was at nth prevailed upon. Soto from this place took his route to a place lledQuigaute, lying to the Southward, and ar ed there on the 4th-of Auguff, but found that e cacique, though he had tent him:a large present sins, had abandoned the town, which was the gest as yet seen in Florida. Here they took some somers, whom setting at liberty after having used m with great tenderness, the inhabitants re ned freely, to their respective houses, and brought , king, and provision of their own accord to army. And now being informed that there was a level )i-peopled country to the southward, but that vince to the north-west, called Caligula, was gh and mountainous, the hope of finding gold the hilly grounds determined Soto to visit the ter; for which purpose, the cacique of Quigaute wished him with an Indian guide, who led him ough a desart of marshy land, where his people re often up to the knees in mud; and in many Is hereabouts there was plenty of fifth, which, if frightened, rose to the surface when the In ns paddled in the water, and were knocked down h slicks and taken. s the Christians approached Caligula, the people but some of them, among whom was the,cacique
cacique himself, were taken prisoners, by whose order a large quantity of hides, both of deer and oxen, were brought in, but no sign of gold; here they found great plenty of mais, very large French beans, and excellent pompions. From this place to a fall scattering town called Palifema, which gave name to a large territory, the distance amounted to five day's journey; here they found the roof as well as the floor of the cacique's house covered with deers skins of various colours, and the soil all the way to Cayas appeared very fertile; deer skins being display. ed in several places thro' which they passed, in token of peace, this being the custom of the countrymen Cayas they rested a month, where there wat excellent mais, and good salt, of which: they had hitherto been in great want; it is left by the ebb o the river upon the banks on each side, where being mixed with sand, they put it in a sort of strainer and wet it well, so that it all melts through into a vessel set for that purpose beneath it, leaving the sand an dross behind; then it is heated over a gentle fire till the water evaporates, and the clear salt only re mains. From hence, after a tedious march, h came to Tulla, where we are told by Ramus, i the third volume of his collection of voyages, th cacique, attended by eighty people, received an treated him very civilly; but we rather chue t follow Herrera, who in his history of America tel us, that the people of Tulla opposed him, an were all put to the sword; as there two account are point blank contrary, it were in vain to attempt to reconcile them; but thus much may be-said f Herrera, that he seems-all along very well acquaint ed with the American affairs; and though both we men of veracity, the latter is the more eat in g neral.,In a short time after this action, the people a tacked the Spanish quarters in the night with prodigy!
vous fury, which were not without difficulty main gained however, as day approached, the Spaniards collected new courage, and at length drove them f, not without many of themselves being wound , and some killed. After their retreat, an In ian, who it is supposed had been sunned with blow, started up from among the dead; and watching hold of a battle-ax; with a view to de end himself and effet his escape, gave such a ow to Carawza, a Spaniard who attempted to op him, that he pierced quite through his target nd gave him a deep wound in the arm; disabling with a second blow Godly, who ran to'affift his companion; and meeting Malabar, who made at im on horseback, with a stroke so well aimed at is neck, that he brought him senseless to the round. At last he was opposed by Gonzales Silver who parrying a blow that he made at him, t him down the forehead with a back-handed uriffh, and the sword slanting by his breast, ok off his left hand close to the wrist, when the tian collecting all his strength to run in upon m, Silvester, who was aware of his intent, cleft m down the middle with one stroke. Having rested in the neighbourhood of Tulla twenty days, they proceeded to Vitangue, and e finding a healthful soil, and plenty of proving they determined to pass the winter. They left this place in April 1542, and after a sant march of seven days through good roads, lived at Nagauten, where they were met by four ian noblemen attended by fire hundred servants, ey said they were sent by their cacique, who in ed him speedily a personal visit, to compliment upon his arrival. But, though they remained seventeen days, the cacique never thought per to keep his word. OL. III. C C H A P
CH AP. X. ybhn Guzman deserts to the Indians: the Is consequence of gaming, and the strength of lve, proved from example: the cacique of Nagauten gives goad instance of sensibility : Solo marshes again the people of dnilco: and the depredations of th tf Guacachoia disuse him extremely: a bold a rational answer sent to an address of Soto: wv dies of grief, and is succeeded in command Lewis de MsfcofO, who keeps his dcathfeiret.,E Fore they left this place, they were deserted by a man of the name of Jo Guzman, who came from Seville in Old. Spain Understanding that he had entered the service the cacique, Soto threatened to detain in cap city the four noblemen that were in his power unless Guzman should be delivered up; .but receive for-answer that Guzman himself refused to return in consequence of this intelligence, one of the so Indians was sent to enquire the true reason of his susan, and at the same time to carry him a letter fro the governor. The messenger returned faithful bringing back with him the letter, at the bottom which was written with charcoal, '" I will not turn, John Guzman ;" and also a messenger fr the cacique himself, implying, that he looked up it to be inconsistent both with honour and justice deliver up a man, who chore to remain with hi without having been influenced either by force persuasions; that for his part, he considered him a very valuable acquisition, and would be glad having many more such subjects; in the ro time, if the governor thought proper to to death the four Indians, or ravage his cou
n that accounts it was in his power and he might oit. Soto finding this answer to be very reasonable, incised the four Indians with Tome presents, and eft the country in a very peaceable manner. The reason of this man's defection, was his wing lost. his; horse, arms, and. all he was worth t play-but: chiefly an Indian woman, his pro erty, whom She violently loved, and who proved o daughter to the cacique to whose service he d retired. It is difficult, because of the change of names that country, to trace Soto's marches for some me past, with any great exactness, but they were probably to the westward of the river Mississippi: however, intending to make the shortest way to e sea, he marched through many provinces, with ut any material accident, till he reached Anilco ; here the cacique waited to oppose his progress at e head of fifteen hundred. men, who all ran ay, as soon as he came in sight, and crossed the ver in canoes; from hence he pursued his march, aking very slight halts, to Guacachoia: the.ca-. que of which place being an enemy to those of nilco sought his friendship, by an embassy of me of his principal people richly attended, and acted with fruits and provisions; and coming myself shortly after, attended by ten gentlemen lastly dressed, and armed in their country man r, to offer his service to the governor, assuring m that if he chose it, he would second him with good army, and eighty canoes, to go against the pique of Anilco. Soto accepted his offer, and marched accord: ly against him with most of his own people, d two thousand Indians headed by the cacique, ile four thousand others were sent down the ri in canoes under the command of a Spanish offi-,C 2 er,
er, all which forces met at the end of three days; when the people of Anilco, unable to withstand such opposition, retired and' left their city quite de. fenceless; into which those of Guacachoia rushed with precipitation, and committed very great dis. orders, nor was it in the power of all Soto's elo. quench or prudence to flem the torrent of their fury, or prevent them from setting the town on fire which gave him infinite uneasiness, as he was not at all a friend to cruelty, but much less where it was apparently so inconsistent with policy. He drove the destroyers indeed out of the town, but not before it was impossible for them to do muc-more mischief; and then returned extremely diff wished to Guacachoia.,On his arrival at this place, he applied himsel diligently in selling and preparing timber, in orde to fit out brigantines for falling down with hi people to the sea; resolving to depart as soon a ever they could be got ready. While he was thu employed, he sent an embassy to a neighbouring cacique, wherein he demanded his friendship and invited him to a visit, as to a child of the fun; which title he assumed to impress the greater awe as he knew the Indians particularly venerated th planet but the cacique roughly answered him, tha " Touching his being a child of the fun, he would " believe him, provided he dried up the neigh " pouring river, or performed something great, th C was adequate to his pretensions, to witness hi ' quality and power; and for visiting, it was wh " he never did, thinking it sufficient honour " grant audience in his own city, where he would "receive him ready for peace or war; keith " afraid of the one, nor over fond of the other.",This and his many other disappointments fun deeply on his spirits, and brought on 'a violent,veÂ¥
ver,. which finding that he would not be able to survive, he ordered his. chief officers to be sum money to his tent, where having appointed-lewis de Mofcofo de Alvarado to succeed' him in com and, and entreated them all to obey him, till his authority should be either superseded or confirmed by the king, he died on the 2zfi of May, 1.541: nor is it paying any compliment to his memory to say,. that all who knew, lamented him: he was a hand - some man, generous, humane, and courageous, of an open countenance, and beloved by the fol fiery, with whom he always equally ventured his person; he was only forty-two years old in this ex petition, and spent most of a very large fortune, which he had amassed in a very amiable character under Pizarro. Lewis de Mofcofo took all the pains he cou'd to conceal his death, as the Indians hereabouts had a oft elevated idea of his virtues, and he had insinuated among them a notion that the Christians ere immortal; besides persuading them that, he ould look into futurity, and that the image, which e shewed them in a mirror, was a spirit that travelled about prying into the most secret matters, or his information, and entirely subservient to his questions. For there reasons, he was buried in he middle of the night, without side of the town; ut the Indians being observed to take notice that he earth had been newly moved, Mofcofo or ]red the body to be dug up as privately as it had. been interred, and enclosed in a hollow piece of lak; which, with weights, was sunk in the middle If the river, in a place where it was nineteen fa home deep, and a mile over. The cacique of Guacachoia, and Come others who :new of his being sick, suspected the truth, and sifted upon seeing him, when Mofcofo told them e was gone to heaven, as he often did upon romeo 3 private
private business, leaving him as-his-reprefentatite: but this account not satisfying the cacique, he sent two Indians bound to Mofcofo,, whom he desired him to behead, in order to attend the governor in his celestial progress; but he gave the poor Indians their liberty. and angrily replied to the cacique, that Soto needed not his assistance; that he was not dead ; and he had taken a good many Christian soldiers with him to wait on him inthe journey o0 which he was set out chap. XI. - TW'5'5 restores so return to Cuba: is led tito grea,:in:. ; vnierci, s by mficondut7 and treachery: gael c:-cut bwuAld';ng-rgjels to transport his people in: t ,:.w ?rea! ingenuity in great danger from a con /,p;racy, which is regarded by a food: they are at ta:edc in their vests on the river, and hauled e tenderly : but at length get cut hosea: and after va riorsft'lghes gain the coast of Mexico.,H E first signal resolution that Mofcofo too after being fettled in his command, was t quit Florida; but, by some unaccountable infanta tion, he was induced to take his rout to the wef ward; whereby he was led into a march for mor than a hundred leagues through barren and defy places, where he had neither aid nor provision besides, he fell several times into ambuscades oft natives, wherein he lost several of his men, and ths circumstance made him suspect that his guides wer fife; which treachery one of them, at whom t dogs were set for that purpose, confessed, laying th blame however upon his cacique, whom hefaid h was obliged to serve after a chace of this sort for more than thre months, they changed their course tithe eastward intending if possible to recover the river Miflifippi,so
for they neither knew their latitude nor their distance from the gulph of Mexico. At length, by keeping sometimes to the northward, they reached the river about the end of November, between Anilco and Guacachoia. Having travelled more than three hundred leagues, and being reduced to three hundred and twenty foot and seventy horse ; nor were these in the bell order in the world the two caciques of Anilco and Guacachoia now struggled with each other, who should be most in favour with the Spaniards, each inviting them to his town : however they. refused both, and quartered between them on the banks of the river, at a place called Aminoia, where the Indians behaved to them with great respect. Here they reset then selves, in order to recover the fatigue of their un profitable progress till the middle of January, I543, when being well recruited, they began to cut down wood, and prepare iron-work for the new vessels which they intended to build, to carry them down the river february, March and April were spent in building brigantines, under the care of the Genoese ship-carpenter: for sails they-used those mantles or blankets of which we have already spoken, made from an herb of the mallow kind, which spun well, and served them also for ropes of different sizes. These, as well as most things of which they flood in need, were furnished by the people of Anilco, which complacency made those of Guacachoia ex extremely jealously the mean time, a cacique on the east-fide of the river, who looked on the Spaniards as invaders, set on foot a conspiracy for their destruction, which the cacique of Anilco, who had been 'invited to the league, in company with several other neigh pouring provinces, discovered to Mofcofo, who was thereby put on his guard; and as notice was given 4 him
him he would be attacked sometime in the nigh he sent word to all the caciques round about, di; fumbling his knowledge of their intention, that h had given stria orders to his soldiers to admit n body, upon any account whatsoever, into the Spa miff quarters, after night-fall; but that, by day, th communication was kept open as usual. N9twiti standing which intimation, two Indians attempt to pass the ditch, upon-a tree which they had lai a-cross for that purpose; but they were 'topped b Silvester, who kept the watch, and cut one of thei terribly over the face for attempting to push by him while the other fled the following day, a message came to Mofcofr from the cacique vtbo headed the conspiracy, d( landing, that the sentinel, who had wounded a Indian gentleman of some fashion, in time peace should be put to death; and this demand was enforce ed by a second, who brought an account of the In tian's being dead: the only answer the general re turned, was, that the Indian deserved his fate, fc endeavouring to break a public order, thereby t promote discord, and that the Spaniard had done hi duty: after which reply the cacique desisted' for his request, intending soon to take ample fatisfaaiot,The conspiracy was however retarded by th Selling of the river which overflowed the count try for twenty leagues round, obl king the Indian to abandon their dwellings, and retire within land but the Spaniards removed their brigantines to th highest part of the town, where they pursued thei work, being almost above the power of the water and, standing in need of provisions, they tied th canoes two and two, and sent them for a supply t Anilco, which they found quite"overflown; how ever, they were perceived' by the cacique oft place, from a neighbouring hill, whereon he'an his people were encamped, who sent a messengers
o inquire who they were; and seeing they were spaniards,. not only loaded them with refreshments, ut added to the number some boats of his own; lesser commanded this detachment, and along; with him was the cacique's son, who having learn d Spanish, and accompanied them in their late. toilsome expedition, would willingly have staid, with them, and shared their fortune,. but. his fa her would not part with him, The flood, having lasted from the beginning of arch to the end of April, began now to abate;, ut there was so much mud and dirt left in the meets, that it was some time before they could; alk in them; their hoes,, which were made of reen leather, being wetted, became like a piece, tripe The beginning of June their brigantines, ere ready for launching ;. and;. on the 29th.of the rme month, the forces all. embarked'; and having ate a firm peace with the caciques of Anilco'anda uacachoia, they set sail We observed before, that the design of the con derate provinces against the Spaniards were re red by the flood;. however, they had prepared. thousand canoes upon the water, to avail; in their passage, the brigantines, which were seven in num er, achieving a snail cock-boat a-fern, and being; uglily defended by planks and green hides, with ree hundred, and fifty Spaniards, and thirty In ian men and: women, who resolved to live and: ie with them. As the Spaniards had long since consumed all their powder, they had made nails,. nd other iron-work for the (hip-building, of the barrels of their muskets; and the only arms they ad left was their swords, within reach of which, e Indians had no inclination, to come,: and their ross-bows, which did some execution The ca does kept at a distance from them, yet approached ear enough to bring their arrows to bear,, where-,C 5, with
with they did some mischief at first; but the Sp niards finding that they kept aloof, for fear oft swords, shot at them with their cross-bows fro under cover, with pretty good success however, after pursuing them'ten days, th left them on a sudden, and let them proceed; fro which circumstances Mofcofo conjectured they we near the sea; so that they spread all their sails, ai-plied their oars with double-diligence, till they car in sight of a small town, where they landed an hu died men and eight horses, under command of S vesper, who found-the town desired; 'but plenty provisions with skins well dressed, and a stripe of fat of the finest sort, eight yards long; and an ell wil richly ornamented with valuable pearls. 'Hereto canoes again appeared in sight, and-silvester, inr turning to the sips, fell into an ambuscade of Int ans, who shot some of the horses loaded with pros sons, but did no other damage: however, a mad Sp niard called Eflevanez, having resolved to do son thing very remarkable, spirited up forty others follow him, seized some of the boats from the brig tines, and rowed up to attack the Indians, whi Mofcofo recalled him by a trumpet, backed his sail and dispatched some canoes after, to recover hie but in vain, for the Indians immediately clasp between the dips and Eflevanez, finking his ve felt, aral knocking those on the head who fwvra so that only four escaped out of the forty. T. viiorv gave the Indians new spirits; they redouble their sights of arrows upon the brigantines, vwh; however at lat wearied them out ; having led the! a chace, as near as could be guessed, of four hui died ieagues.,July- tee With, they came, to their great joy, sight of the sea, and made e fm slay to Jesse themselves, and repair their brigantines in an i11ani when, jul as they were zbout'to depart, li-:e,canci
canoes appeared from a creek overgrown with runs in that, which seemed to be the principal of them, was a very tall black man, who addressed hem in a menacing manner;. on which Silvester using out an hundred men, pursued them in oats to their asylum, where he found above sixty ther canoes, three of which he overset, and the. es of them fled;. many of. the Indians falling by. he cross-bows. After this exploit they set sail, fleering futh-wef,,. nd keeping as close to the shore as they could in: fete do, till they got into the sea of Mexico, where vos the brigantines at laff.made a creek in New 'pain, but the two others were driven out to sea: y a north-wind; and, after being severely handled y the waves for twenty-four hours, they happily Pied land again, which they reached with some. difficulty, and here ran their ships a-ground, on. he both of September, 1543. They then divided, themselves into parties,.in order to discover where bouts they were;. and one of them, led by Silvester going up the country, spied three Indians filing in a lake, and two others gathering fruit. one f whom they took, but did not understands language; however, he brought them to a cottage here they found two baskets of fruit, a- turkey ,ck, two Spanish hens, and some conserves; whjth having secured they dismissed him winsome-trifling rents: in about four hours he returned, with might Indians,'loaden with fish, fowl, mais, and fruit; ,gather with the cacique, who could write. and eat, and-had brought them pen, ink, and paper, hereby they were enabled to write to the governor Panuco, in whose territory they were, acquaint - g him of their arrival. Then they sent in search of, and found; the other e brigantines; which being piloted hither, all: e crews joined, and marched in the miferab:e.,C 6 equipage.
equipage they landed in, to Panuc9, where the were treated with great civility; and the viceroy of Mexico being informed of their arrival, immei lately lent horses loaded with all manner of ne. necessaries for their relief; ordering them to comet Mexico, which they did; where the viceroy pro. missed, on their giving a very tempting account the fertility of the country they had passed, an blaming the king's officers for not supporting th expedition, te go thither himself at their head But, as he never performed his promise, some them went to Peru, and others fettled in Mexico where they were easily provided for; while t most melancholy among them took a religio habit; and the Spaniards heads ran so much upo gold at that time, that all further thoughts Florida were laid aside till 1549, when some Do monica friars took it in their heads to go thither to plant Christianity; but the Indians destroy them all, in twenty four hours after they h landed.,Thb
56 I~~~~~~~; I
voam.,P A T A G,5 '93 -P if U r~~~~~~~~~~,--straits OF MIAGEL~LAN,c.dusr~rtJM qwit,(1~~~~~~~~~4 ~~~X<Idl4 L FU ~ G Abaosl,L~~~~~v~~~ ~ g TAT s AEL,C~~~~i~~- nd p,4'd'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ER DTL Lego. C~~,L~~~~~~~~~Ã³ 4 .5O~FjLq~:Â·" ! ~ps~
The VOYAGE of FERNANDES,MAGALIANES, commonly called MAGELLAN.,CHAP. I. Magellan's character: his offers to the emperyr,,and encouragement: proceeds on his Jyage. Arrives at Cape St. Mary's: winters near the south pose : the land inhabited by giants, who are described;. two of them are made prisoners: orme occult of the devil Stebos, and his followers, Some of Magellan's men hanged for inutiy The Straits of Magellan discovered; and the St. Into. niofeparates front the fleet: Magellan's people re duce to great digress in the pacific ocean: they. di cover the south-pole. They come to the islands of Thieves: the simplicity of the' inhabitants: their complexion and catching described. The great use of the cocottree 5 an account of certain people with huge ears. Magellan, is gallantly entertained t the king of Bethany and his Jon : their surprise at a man in armour. they are. vested by the king of Messina, and proceed to. Zubut, where they trade with the king, and convert kis whole island to Christianity The funeral ceremonies of the people of Mlathun, and their sacrifices explained. Magellan killed. Succeeded in command by Ba bora and Ser. rank, who burn one of their ]his. Some account of the court of Borneo: they catch a faddle-fil; and find an animated t, ee. Of certain cannibals, that breeze oranges 6n human hearts as nice morals: they ds over the Mo.'ucas, and enter Titre. They,approach
approach ,te island of Rude; double the Cape of Good Hope:. reduced to great dijlres ; and oppress. fed by the governor of one of the Cape de Verde islands: they arrive in the Port of St. Lucar. A IJrt account of the voyage of the other ]hip.,A G E L L A N was a man of spirit encourage, born in Portugal, who re bounced his allegiance to king Ema duel-on being refused a very trifling advance in his monthly salary. He had served with reputation under Albuquerque, having give many proofs of his abilities, and established a sir reputation in Africa as welles India.,He retired to the court of Castile, where hemadi it appear to the emperor,. that, from the bound ries of their respective rights in the western world agreed to by king John II. and Ferdinand and Ifabi of Castile, the Molucca and Banda islands, famous for spices, belonging to him; undauntedly under taking to find out a passage to them by the west for which his memory has been severely treated the Portuguese writers five ships were fitted out at the emperor's ex pence, viz. the Trinity, admiral, under the car of Stephen Comes, a Portuguese pilot; the St. Vie doria, commanded by Servis de Mendoza; the St Antonio, by John de Carthagena;.the St. Jag by John Serra; and the Conception, by Gasped Quexada; their crew consisted of two hundred an thirty-seven men, or thereabouts; and Mageil] was made admiral and commander in chief of th little squadron august the both, 1519, they left Evil, and 2a rived at Generis on the 26th of September: th sailed for some time by the coast of Guinea, an were becalmed for seventy days before they read cd the line; which having passed, they lost fig
of the north-far, and steered north-west, till they arrived at Brazil, where they were refreshed, and met with variety of excellent fruits, good sugar canes, and many different fort-animals, &c. This country is eight degrees southward of the equinoctial and on the same continent with Cape St. Augustine.,Hence they proceeded to a land in twenty-four degrees 'and one half south latitude, inhabited part. ly by cannibals, several of whom their men pur sued to no purpose; for they were extremely swift: and one of them, who was descried from the ships, had the feature of a giant, and the voice of a bull. Here they found' a large fresh water river, whence they imagined they might pass into the South Sea; but they were deceived, there being no passage our. In the mouth of this river, which is seventeen leagues broad, there are seven islands, in the target of which called by them Cape St. Mary, they met with some precious stones along this cast they sailed towards the south pole, till they discovered two islands, where there was such plenty of seals and penguins, that in an hour they might have loaded the five ships with them: the latter are black, they feed upon fifi, and are covered with a soft down infected of feathers, having bills like ravens, and are so very fat, that it was scarce possible to flea them. Here they were encountered by a very violent storm', which suddenly ceased on the appearance of the three fires called St. Helena, St. Nicholas, and St. lare, upon their rigging. They then proceeded to forty-nine degrees and ne half of south latitude, where they wintered two months, without seeing any human creature, ex kept a giant, who came down to the haven dancing singing, and throwing dust over his head. he admiral, who was ashore upon a small islands present
one of his men to him in the flip's boat, wh( having made the like motions in token of peace; the giant, without any fear, came with him to the ad. moral, and seemed much amazed at sight of him and his attendants, manifesting, by pointing to the heavens, and by other gestures, his belief of their having descended from above.,He was so very tall, that the head of a middling sized man reached only to his waste; he was cor. opulent and well proportioned; his visage was large, and painted with different colours, but principally with yellow; there were red circles about his eye:, and Something like a hart was figured on each cheek; his hair was coloured white, and his ap. pares was the skin of some bears tacked together; the head of which appeared to have been very large: it had ears like a mule, a body like a came and the tail of an horse; the skin of it was wrap pet about his feet in the manner of (hoes: in hit hand was a thick short bow, and a bundle of at. rows, made of reeds, pointed with, {harp.flones, and feathered as ours generally are. The admira made him eat and drink, after which he presente him with hawks bells, a comb, some glass beads, and other trifling things, but particularly a looking glass, in which he had no sooner perceived his own horrid appearance, than he started back, as if as frighted, with such violence, that he threw down a woman standing near him: he went ashore, escorted by four men well armed.,He was succeeded by another giant, rather larger, armed in the same manner, whom the admira sent some of his men to compliment-as they ha done the former; and he was on, induced to corn to the island, being of a tractable pleasant dispose tion, singing and dancing with great good humour he. remained among them for some time, and rh gave him the nam: of John; his voice was welitune;,bu
ut coarser than ordinary; and he could pronounce ejus, ave Maria, and Johannes, very distinctly. he admiral gave him a linen shirt,. a white cloth at, a looking-glass, a cap, a comb, and several her things, and Cent him back: he returned to e Ship's company the next day, bringing one of hose beasts, the skin of which he wore, as a present r the admiral but it is supposed his countrymen destroyed him for his connexion, as he was never card of afterwards. Four other giants coming down to the water de, in about fifteen days after,. unarmed, having id their bows and arrows in the bushes; the two oungefR and most alive of them were detained, having been secured by a trick. To them were even crystal beads, bells, and such other trifles, 11 their hands were quite full; after which, bright on hackles were put round their legs, by way of resent, with which, on account of their shining, ey were well enough pleased. The two others ould have-assisted them in their burdens, but ere prevented: when they found their legs fall, ey began' to suspect some deceit, roared as loud bulls, and implored the assistance of the great de il Setebos. They were put on board of different lips: it was impossible to seize upon the other o; one of whom was with much difficulty borne wn by nine of the tailors, and his hands bound, ut he soon burst the restriction, started up and ed: nor was his companion far behind him; they ere pursued, and one of Magellan's men was in by one of their arrows. It is said, that ten or twelve devils dance about e bodies of such of them as die; that there de is are of different colours; and one of them who ems to be larger than the rest, makes very merry the occasion. It was recollected from the gest res of one of these prisoners, that he had seen,some
some of. those devils with two horns upon then and long hair hanging down to their feet, wN cast out flames on every fide.,To these people Magellan gave the name of Path gone. Their dresses, for the most part, were fu skins as I have already described: they have no pa titular place of residence, but carry their cottage every where with them, which are covered with t same sort of king as they wear. Their chief food raw field, and a root of a sweet flavour called cap They are jealous of their women. An arrow tir down the throat, so as to force up blood and ot matter, by way of vomit, is their constant cure for sickness at the stomach; a cut across the forth causing an emission of blood, removes the lea each; and pains in the leg,, arms, or any ot part, are in the same manner dispelled. They their hair almost like friars, binding it with a c ton lace, and swathe themselves so very tightly, cause of the cold, that their genitals are often h den in their bodies. One of there people on bo the flip, eat a basket of biscuit at one meal, a drank a bucket of water at a draught.,Some of the under officers, among whom Lewis de Mendoza, were here hanged and quam ed for conspiring the admiral's death. John Cartagena a priest, and some others who laid concerned in the plot, were left among the Pa gone; a cross was also erected here, in token possession being taken of the country from this land, they failed to the fiity-feco degree of south latitude, where was a fresh water ver, and very good fish. Here they were in so danger; however the ships put into port, w they remained about two months, flocking the selves with fish, fuel, and frc'h water; at place the admiral caused all his men to be confer Hereabouts they found the straits called by MaI,1-
an's name, being an hundred and ten leagues long, very broad in some places, and in other, little ore than half a league over-they are flanked ici very high mountains, covered with snow, be ont which is the beginning of the South Sea; e admiral' named this the Pacific Ocean. The eat of the equinoctial, as they approached it, kil d one of the giants; audit was here that the t. Antonio sole privately away and returned to sain. . When Magellan had thus palled the straits nd law a passage open to the other sea, the tears 1 from his eyes thro' joy; and, to the point of nd whence he first descried it, he gave the name of ape Desire. Upon the top of a neighbouring hill ey erected a cross, in order to direct the St. An nio in case she should come that way, for they imagined se had missed her course. In this strait they found plenty of good havens, efficiency of water, wood, fish, and the mots who. me herbs: and in the month of October the night d not exceed four hours. The surviving giant that remained behind, wasat- rft very uneasy at the sign of the cross being made eure him, shewing by signs he feared that it would. ife the' devil Setebos, who would enter his body d kill him; but, when he found the falsity of his ars, he embraced the cross very devoutly and fired to be made a Christian; in consequence of which he was baptized by the name of Paul. He oke all his words from his throat; and among ther things called bread, caesar; water, oli; red both, cherecai, red colour, choice; and black !our, ames. On the 28th. of November, 1520, they entered le Pacific Ocean, where they were upwards of three months without sight of land; in which time all heir provisions and fresh water were consumed,,and
and they were reduced to the necessity of feeding upon old leather, soaked for four or five days i sea water to soften it, and drinking their own urine so that their gums grew over their teeth, and nine teen of their men, together with the giant, and native of Brazil, died very miserably: besides thes several others of their hands were so feeble as i be unable to work, and none of them were fre from some racking distemper this ocean, in which they sailed above four tho sand leagues, running from one hundred and sift to two hundred and ten knots a day, was jufil called Pacific, as in the whole time they met wit no tempest of any sort, nor the sign of foul weather In it they discovered two uninhabited islands, abo two hundred leagues asunder, the first being in si teen, and the other in five degrees of south latitude neither of them bearing any thing but some uses trees, and a few birds; wherefore they named the the Unfortunate Islands.,In this course they made observation of two cl terms of stars, not very distant one from the othe appearing like clouds, somewhat dark in she middle between which are two stars, neither remarkable for size or Suite, which are called the antarctic, south-pole: but there are no remarkable stars abo this as about the north-pole.,Here the needle varied greatly; and, though till pointed at the north-pole, it lost much ofi virtue, so that they were obliged to retouch it wil the loadstone. They now discovered a cross five clear stars due west, all equidistant they pasted by two very high lands, the o named Cipanhu, in twenty degrees south latitude the other in fifteen, called Submit. Leaving equinoctial behind, they sailed between wet a southwest, keeping more to the south-seas by hundred leagues, till they came into thirteen d,reI
rees north latitude, intending for the cape, called y the old writers Cattigara, which is not situated they have described it. On the 6th of March, in the twelfth degree of orth latitude, and the hundred and forty-sixth of eft longitude, they discovered an island to the north et, and two to the Couth-weft, one of which was roger and higher than the other; and here our ad iras intended to have refreshed for sometime: but e inhabitants were such great thieves that he found impossible; they daily filched something or other om the ships, which they constantly visited in their noes, and this rapaciousness so provoked the sail. s, that they were not without difficulty restrained om striking sail, and coming close to land with e Ships to revenge themselves. However, the ad iras himself went on shore, with forty armed men, w seven of the islanders, burned above fifty houses, d several canoes, recovered a flip's boat which ey had run away with, and then returned on ard the flip to pursue his voyage, distinguishing efe islands by the name of the islands of Thieves, full Latronum. Some of them pulled the ar ws with which they had been (hot-by the sailors m their wounds, and gazed on them with won r till they fell dead: and even when Magellan's et was departing, above two hundred boats fol. wed it pretty far, proffering fish by way of pre nt; and among them were several women, who re their hair, and gave other marks of lamenta ns, as if for the loss of their husbands. These people are middle-sized, of an olive co ur, with black beards, and hair hanging down their waste; they go naked, and appear not to subservient to any particular chief or ruler. 'he women are whiter than the men, with good natures, and thick black hair reaching almost to e ground; they cover their privities with the in-,xI~ / werner
bark of the palm, and seldom go abroad, bK ing employed at home in making mats and nes of the palm-tree, and in other domestic office! The men wear palm-tree bonnets, and think it es essential to beauty to colour their teeth either red black; to anoint their bodies and head with oil o coco; and they feed on coco, bananas, birds, sigh sugar-canes, flying fish, &c. .their boats are of different colours, their sail are the largest leaves of the date-tree fewe.d:to, gather; and their rudder a-board with a fash the top, so that they can make either end the serf as they think proper: these fail very swiftly, a are, at distance, not unlike dolphins swimming. the surface. Their houses are timber covered wi boards, and the fig-tree leaf, which is more ths a yard long; and they are divided into allan chambers with windows; they sleep on the pal leaf, which is very soft, and their bed-furniture made up of palm-mats: their weapons are cl or poles headed with horn.,On the Both of March, Ici, they landed a Small island, thirty leagues from the islands Thieves, called Zama; and the next day went lore to another called Humuna, where they fou good fresh water, plenty of fruit-trees, with so gold and white coral; here the admiral caused tent to be Pitched, for the reception of the sick fro on board flip, and a hog to be killed.,On the t Sth of March they were visited by ni men in a canoe, who appeared to be very huma and good-natured, bringing with them wine draw from the coco, and other presents for the ado rat; and signs ing by signs, that in four days th would bring flesh, fowl, and rice: nor did ti break their words from the coco-tree is made bread, wine, 0 and vinegar; an incision is made in the tree,,whi
which is infixed a large reed, into which drops an agreeable liquor, a little tart, and not unlike white ne: this is drank as wine Ihe coco-fruit is large as a man's head; the outside rind of it green, about two fingers deep, and early divi !e into threads; and from these they make cor ge for their boats: beneath this rind is a thick ell. which burned to a powder is used by them a remedy in many diseases: under this is a white sick substance. like a nut's kernel, which they t with fish, flesh, &c. as we do bread, passing t unlike an almond, and keeping dry; within is kernel is a wholesome sweet liquor, very clear; tit sometimes congeals and lies like an egg; of is when they intend to-make oil, they lay it to rise in water, and boil it to the consistence of 1 or melted butter: to make it vinegar, they only the water in the fun, where it soon be mes four like that made of white-wine; and kernel and water contained therein, bruised to ther, and strained through a cloth, produces a milk t unlike that of goats. There trees flourish an indeed years; and two coco-nut trees will main in a family of ten people in liquor for sixteen days, tit will not keep much longer. These people came from a- small neighbouring and called Zulvan, and invited the admiral to heir boats to view their-merchandise, consisting of oves, cinnamon, mace, pepper, nutmegs, and di rs things made of gold : he, in return, entertain them on board, where they were so terrified hearing a cannon shot of, that they would have aped into the sea, had not the admiral appeased em with complacency and presents. The men ere naked, with gold rings in their ears, brace ts round their arms; and they had daggers, ses, and lances adorned with gold. They in red him of people in the neighbouring iflinds,,whose
whose ears hung down to their arms. On ths 22d of March they brought down oranges, palm. wine, and cocos, which were a great refreshment to the sick.,As there were many islands hereabouts, the named it the Archipelago of St. Lazarus: the ina giants are Gentiles; gross, andwell-fet, and sofa olive complexion; they anoint their bodies with of coco, to save them from the hot fun and d; winds, and go generally naked, covering only the privities with cloth made from the rind of a tree their chief is distinguished by a silk bonnet, orna vented with needle-work.,They left this island on the z5th of March, fleer ing between west and south-west, and on the 28 anchored off the island of Buchan, where th king and his son entertained them very honour biy. The admiral presented the king with a garment, and one that was yellow, made after t Turkish manner, and a red cap; and distribute knives and glass-beads among his attendants: then Shewed the flip, together with his merci dise, but frighted him extremely by firing a pie of ordnance; however, he was very easy when found no harm intended. The king express great surprise at seeing several persons strike a sail who was, for that purpose, armed cap-a-pie, wit out making the lears impression upon, or hurts him; and he declared by his interpreter, who w a slave, native of Molucca, that one such man w too strong for an hundred of his soldiers.,Antonia Pigafetta, and another man, were o tered to escort him to shore; and, as soon as h landed, he raised his hands to heaven, stretching them out afterwards towards the Christians, i which he was imitated by all his train: AntoniO and his companion did the same in return; an when they drank to each other, this was their corn,plimnent
intent. They ascended by ladders to the king's ace, which was raised. on props of timber, and ked something like a hay-loft, being roofed with im and fig-leaf. They sit cross-legged at vic as, and, by way of candles in the night,, use a t of gum, wrapped up in palm-tree leaves, and leniently folded. His majesty was astonished at tonic's writing down the names of many things, ici he repeated several times with astonishment, d then dismissed him .and his companion with any presents; as did also the young prince, as having entertained them magnificently, in a neighbouring stand called Caleghan, where he had palace. In this inland they found several large pieces of d, committed with the earth; and there where ny vessels of gold in the king's house, which handsomely adorned. The king was a man a comely appearance, his black hair hung down ow his shoulders, on his head he had a sort of en turban, gold Tings in his ears, and three on ry finger; a dagger with a golden handle in a vet wooden case hung by his side ;- and about waist was tied a stripe of a mixture of cotton silk, which reached down to his knees i his bo. was painted with various colours, and anointed h oil of benjamin and storax; his face was na fly of an olive hue; he was called Raia Column and the prince Raia Siagu. 'he admiral would not permit one of his'men ake a collar and crown of gold in exchange for e glass-beads, left the natives Should have been ce induced to infer, that their gold was of more e than the Spanish wares. he natives are very nimble; they are painted go naked: the women are indeed partly co d by their hair, which reaches alnmot to the nd; they all wear gold kings, anti chew a CLr. Ili. yD fruit.
fruit, not unlike a pear, called areca, which th, cut in quarters, and sold up in the beetle-leaf; ths they say, comforts the heart, reddens the moult and having chewed it sufficiently, they spit it or and to this they are so used, that they could scare ly live without it.,The admiral presented them with a cross, aid crown of thorns, to which all his men at-the time paid a low reverence. This, he told them the interpreter, he gave as a token of the free flip of the emperor his malter: he bade th set it upon the highest mountain, and by re gently bowing to it, assured them that they fh be preserved from any injury that tempests, th der, or lightning could inflict; that any Chr ans who should chance to come that way, would ser; from seeing it, that whoever erected it been well entertained; and consequently w aid and assist, instead of doing them any dam Their only form of worship was raising their h and eyes to heaven, and calling on their god bas, which gave the admiral some pleasure, as Gentiles are much more easily converted to C dignity than the Mahometans.,The king of Buchan furnished them with pl who conduced them to Zeilon, Zubut, Mel and Caleghan. The best of these is Zubut, leaf for trade. In the island of Meffana, whi nine degrees north latitude, they found dogs, hogs, hens, goats, rice, ginger, coco, barley, oranges and wax, with a great quantity of g Hence they sailed north-west, passing between Ion, Bohol, Canghu, Barba, and Caleghan; which last there are bats as large as eagles, w are well flavoured, and taRe like hens; here also found stock-doves, turtle-doves, popinjays, a sort of hens with small horns, that lay large burying them deep in the sand, where they,hat;
watched by the heat of the fun, and the young chickens creep out by themselves. They took the king of Meffana on board with em, and then-proceeded to Zubut, which is sty leagues from Catighan, and seventy from Meffana On the 7th of April, about noon, they entered the rt of Zubut, and passed many villages situated mong trees: when they came within cannon ot of the city, Magellan drew up his (hips in battle array, and fired off all his ordnance; then e Cent an ambassador and an interpreter on shore othe king, whom, together with his people, he und extremely terrified at the noise of the fire g; but they were easy when informed by the in peter, it was a customary compliment, and a ark of their respect for the lord of the place. The interpreter further informed him, that the admiral is master, who belonged to the most powerful rince in the world, had been out to discover the lucca islands, and was determined to visit him, in order to exchange merchandise for provision, by the character gii'n of him by the king of Meffana. he king was well satisfied with this address, only served to them, that it was customary for all lips that entered this harbour to pay him tribute, dancing a flip's having done so but a few days before, which was laden with gold and slaves ; to witness which assertion, he produced the owners of he vessels. The interpreter answered, That paying tribute to him was beneath the dignity of so great a ing as his mailer; that if he insisted on it, he would nd the ill consequences of it by a war, in which he tuft be certain to sussex; since the power of his after was infinitely greater than that of Portugal, he having many more lips and territories, as being king of Spain and emperor of all Christendom.,D2 A
A trading moor, who-was present at this di course, confirmed what the interpreter said, afTuf ing the king, that's these people were not tree with proper respect, their sovereign, who had fund ed Calicut, Malacca, and all the greater India, wo perhaps let loose an army on him that would wage his whole country. On this intimation he ed a day's time to consider of his answer; furni ing them in the mean time with every refrefme,The king of Meffana now paid him a visit; next to the king of Zubut, there was none he abouts so powerful: and he gave such a clara of the admiral's humanity and complacency, t when his answer was sent for, the messenger m the king in the streets, accompanied by many gr men, going towards the lips, desiring to kno if there were more than one chief on board, ready to barter ware for ware with the people their own-terms, as well as to grant every im city they should require; asking, as a feal of free flip, a little blood drawn from the admiral's ri arm, promising in return rome from his own. Th the king of Meffana and the king of Zubut's nephew with several great men, visited the admiral on bo bringing with them many very fine presents, in der to engage his confidence and friendihip.,The admiral then preached to them the Chr tian faith, which they readily embraced; and t recital of the creed gave them such pleasure, th they wept for joy. In a sort time after this vi the whole island was converted and baptized when they visited the king in his palace, hew seated on a floor, covered xvitha curious sort of ma made of leaves of the date-tree. He was a lit man, but corpulent; having a covering of need work on his head, a very valuable chain about h feck, and a gold ring ornamented with precio stones in each ear; a piece of bombafine covered,priviti
cities, and the rest of his body was naked, paint as it were with flames of fire, and other strange vices of different colours; near him were three fess of fine porcelain, in which were sodden eggs, d four other vessels containing wine, covered with odoriferous herbs. The prince also entertain the admiral and his train at his house, where ur of his daughters, who were white and well natured, danced naked, playing at the same time a sort of metal timbrel, and singing not disagreeably The king very readily granted leave to bury ore one of the flip's crew who died on board . was pleated as well as surprised at the ceremony of a Christian funeral, reverencing the croft, which was placed at the head and foot of the grave. These people esteem (scarcely any thing so much superfine drinking-glasses they make use of rights and measures, and are extremely just. heir houses are of wood, erected upon props, which they mount-by Airs, and their hogs, ns, and goats are kept underneath. They have delicate fowl, the skin of which is black, about e bigness of a crow, which puts itself in the way being swallowed by the whale, upon whose heart seeds, and afterwards gnaws its way through the dy these have been often found alive in the dead cafe of the whale, when thrown on shore by the de. They give gold, rice, hogs, hens, and divers her things of great value for very trifling commo cities; and fourteen pounds of iron purchase fifteen cats. Our admiral warned the king not to be frighten at the noise of the ordnance, which was fired on his being baptized : he then intruded him the Christian religion, caused him to destroy his vols, to red the cross in many places, and to kneeled 3 before
before and reverence it with joined hands. Tj king was named Charles, after the emperor, ai the prince, Ferdinand, after his imperial majesty brother. The king of Meffana was baptized the name of John; and the moor, whom we hat before mentioned, by that of Christopher. Abo five hundred people were baptized this day besoin mas, to whom were given common Christian nan after which, the king and his attendants dined board of the admiral's ship, where they were civet by a general discharge of cannon the queen who was young and fair, with prince's wise, and upwards of four hundred gent women, was also baptized: she went to hear m in great fate, having a white cloth round her b a hat with a triple crown, not unlike the pope's ti on her head, over which was flung a silken fringed with gold, that reached to her should She was preceded by three young women, three men uncovered; and followed by a train women bare-footed and wholly naked, except th heads and privities, which were veiled with their hair also hanging loose about their necks shoulders almost the whole island was now converted, kept one village, which would not obey the ki command i whereupon the admiral caused it to burned, and a wooden cross to be erected upon spot, as the people were Gentiles; had they b Mahometanss, it had been stone, in allusion to peculiar hardness of their hearts the king's brother not being as yet convert sacrifices were offered to some idols fill subsists-for his health, he being very much out of ord and this circumstance coming to the admiral's e he at first resented it extremely; then promised forfeit his head, if the prince, on professing Christian faith, did not recover in confequenÂ¢,whii
heh assertion, and some other arguments, the once being a man of good sense and ready wit, as persuaded to be baptized, and soon recovered, the joy and amazement of all the people. At force distance from Zubut is the island of Ma an, the inhabitants of which cover no part of heir bodies but their privities. The males hang (mall gold ring to the head of the fortin, and ke as many wives as they chuse, one of whom looked upon generally as the principal; their fu rat ceremonies, and those attending their sacrificing of a hog to the. fun, are remarkable. The women are the principal priests, as well mourners; they go to the house of the de eased, where they inclose the body with boughs trees, covered over with pieces of cotton like a nt; then his principal wife Wretches herself up n him, limb to limb, and laments in concert with other, who cuts his hair by little and little: when e.one heareth to cut, the other, instead of lament ng, sings; in the mean time, myrrh, storax, and ther perfumes are burned about the room. These ceremonies last for five days ; during which time, ey tell you, that for five hours, reckoning from midnight, the raven perches on the house-top, and rocks in concert with the howling of the neigh during dogs, Lastly, they inclose the body in a wooden tomb. Certain bells are rung introductory to their fa rising to the fun ; then three platters are brought forth; the first containing rice anthony boiled, nd rolled up in leaves: the second is replenished with roasted fish; and the third contains a linen Both with two fillets, which is spread on the rouuid: then two old women, each holding a reed trumpet, sind upon the cloth, one of whom ap plies to her forehead one of the fillets, to which are fattened two horns, sounding her trumpet and,D 4 dan-dancing;
after these gesticulations, The makes a for of barbarous add res to the fun, to which they h at first paid a sort of reverence, and in this she answered by her companion; then some wine brought, which, after putting to her mouth, pours on the hog, which is tied in the midst of t cloth, and which the kills with a lance brou to her for that purpose, after many ridiculous ce monies; a light is put into the mouth of the ho and the other beldam, washing the head of trumpet in his blood, afterwards wets her sing with it, and signs the foreheads of her husband and such other men as are present; at last they I aside their priestly garments, and eat the rice, & but no men are suffered to partake with them however, they are allowed to feed on the flesh the hog, which they are not at any rate to tou till it is thus consecrated, and afterwards signed these mumbling witches the government of the island of Nathan a divided between two princes, named Zulu and )i.pulapu; which last refusing to pay tribute tot king of Spain, the admiral marched at the he of sixty men, armed with helmets and coats mail, and was killed in battle by a poisoned carr and a stroke received in the face from a cane lane eight or nine men were slain betides himself, a fifteen of the barbarians; but many more of t latter were wounded. Cilapulapu had drawn c three armies against him, each containing abo two thousand men well armed with arrows, dart javelins, &c. nor would he allow Magellan's b to be ransomed at any rate.,Odoardo Barbara a Portuguese, and John Terr no were chosen to command in Magellan's place but the latter was soon after betrayed into the band of the islanders by the interpreters fit
A few days before the admiral's death, they had me intelligence of the Molucca islands. From than they failed to a very distant island called oho. In this voyage they agreed to divide be. ween the other ships the lading of the Conceptions. nd to burn her, as their number was considerably educed. They then steered south-west towards aviloghon, inhabited by blacks. Hence they came to Chipping, in eight degrees. orth latitude, where they were entertained in a. very friendly manner, and found plenty of rice, gin r, hogs, goats, hens, &c. The king of this island,. n his receiving them, drew blood from his left. and, with which he touched his body, his face,. nd the tip of his tongue; the Spaniards did the. me, it being with them assign of amity Forty leagues. from Chipping is an island named' again, which is but poorly inhabited, by exiles rm the isle of Borneo they have a great deal of ld, and use poisoned arrows, Twenty-five leagues hence, between well. and,: both-weft is the island of Pulaon, in nine degrees. went minutes north latitude, a fertile country,. yielding plenty of rice, ginger, hogs, goats, hens, cos, bananas, sugar-canes,. figs of an extraordinary large size, and some wholesome roots. The ogle go naked,. use poisoned arrows, are fond cock-fighting, and have rice-wine much firing than that of palm, which soon produces intoxication Ten leagues south-west of Pulaon, in five degrees five minutes north latitude, and an hundred and fe vent six degrees and. one third longitude from their place .of departure, is the island of Borneo,. which is large and wealthy, there being above twenty-five thousand houses the chief city, which e twenty-five leagues ftom.the. mouth of the har 'uQ. This is the residence of thinking, who hath,,D 5 under
under him many lesser sovereigns, and is very power ful; he hath several concubines, and ten secreta ries, who write on the barks of trees, being, fran gers to the use of paper; his houshold is mana; get by women,: and he is reverenced by the hang joined, and lifted three times above the head; hi, court is very magnificent, and his guards are na serous. He sent the Christians several present and two elephants covered with silk, to bring thei chiefs to court, whom he received in a very friend. ]y manner. He has in his possession two rou smooth pearls, as large as hen eggs. On the 29 of July, they were attacked by more than an hu died Junks, whom they repulsed, taking four them, with their crews, among whom was the ki of Borneo's captain-general, who was just return from the sacking of a city called Lao; and, 'h not the pilot to whose care he had been entrust let him escape, his ransom had been worth a co miserable sum. This island produces camphor which is a gum; ginger, cinnamon, lemons, oral ages, swine, goats, elephants, horses, &c.,They next arrived at Cimbubon, in eight dear seven minutes north latitude, where they staid refit their ships, and supply themselves with fuel a fresh water, in procuring which they were great fatigued, as their hoes,'and indeed all their other a pares were worn out. Here are crocodiles, ostrich wilds hogs; and they caught a fish with two horn! the body being all of one bone, which had for thing on its back like a saddle antonio Pagafatta tells us of a tree, not uni the mulberry, growing here, the leaves of whi are animalcular, and have a spontaneity of mor when they fall to the ground; he supposes them live on air, and says, he kept a couple of them eig days in a bowl, which would avoid his finger being touched by it.,The
They now steered south-seas in quest of the Mo lucca islands. Here the sea is full of weeds; and n one side they saw very high mountains: passing y Solo and Taghima, famous for pearl, from hence the king of Borneo had his very large ones,. nd then fleering north-east, they took a canoe off he great city of Mangdando, in fix-degrees seven minutes north latitude, and from the people on, hard received further information concerning the: moluccas. On the banks of, a neighbouring river, hey were told of certain robust hairy cannibals, hat eat:human hearts raw with the juice of'oran- es and lemons; here, for two knives, they bought twenty-seven pound of cinnamon. They again erred south-seas, and palsied by the stands of Ci co, Biramboia, Sarangani, and Canting. After a very violent tempest, they put into the' land of Sarangani, from whence they forced two lots to conduct them to the Moluccas; and, on. he sixth' of November, in the twenty seventh month of their departure from Spain, after having, fled many islands,. the names of which, for brevity sake, we omit, they came in sight of the Mo clas; on which occasion they gave thanks to God, nd difcharged:all their ordnance. The soundings n there seas were not any where less than an hun red and two yards., though the Portuguese had re resented them 'as dangerous for their shallows ani; cks, as well as the darkness of the sky; but this. able they invented to intimidate other nations fromÂ» undertaking this voyage. On the 8th of November, 1521, they came into, the harbour of Tidore, the chief of all the Molucca sands, where the sultan Raia Mauzor enter gained them as his brethren; he was a Moor,. and! swore upon the koran, to live always in friendship. With the kings Spain, out of respect whom heed 6, changed,
changed the name of the island from Tidore t Castile.,On the 12th of November, the king gave then a warehouse for the reception of their merchandize and, for ten yards of cloth, they received four hun died and six pound of cloves; for fifteen yards o a coarser sort, the same quantity of cambie; a much for thirty-five drinking glasses; and the fan for seventeen cathy of quick-silver.,The lips were plentifully supplied with goat hens, figs a span long, and all sorts of provision; as well as with fresh water brought from a h spring in the mountains that bear the clove-tr the seam of which daily encompassed them like cloud: this water grows cold when it has flood little. They have also some nutmeg-trees in t place the Molucca islands are five in number, vi Ternate, situated in twenty seven minutes nor latitude, the king of which was once sovereign the whole; Tidore, of which we have now fpo ken, in four minutes south latitude; Mutia und the line, and Machin in fifteen minutes south latitude, both governed by the people as republics-and Bacchian, ruled by a king, lies in one degra south latitude, and is the largest of the five the king of Bacchian sent, as a present to king of Spain, two dead birds of paradise, abo the bigness of turtle-doves, with fall heads, lo bills, long taper legs, and tails like turtles; the have no wings, but instead thereof large feather variously coloured, and they fly only when the win-blows.,These islands have not been peopled with Moo above fifty years, the original inhabitants bes Gentiles, and very brutish, particularly the wo men, who are naked except their privities, whit they cover with the bark of a tree; which brk,,being
ein steeped. in water, may be beaten our very road, to the confidence of silk. These produce fugar-canes,coco, melons, gourds, minds, pomegranates, oranges, lemons, honey ate by bees smaller than ants, and several other its, particularly one of a very cold nature called? amulicai also goats, sheep, hens, and red and lite, as well as other coloured popinjay; Here re also found rice, sea-god, of which they make read, ginger, nutmegs, and cloves; the latter are first white, but red when ripe, and become black with keeping; they are gathered twice a-year, in une and December and grow ten or twenty in a luster on the top of 'a bough, which is thickest in he middle. The tree that bears them is about the eight and size of a man, the leaves not much dissent from the bay; the bark of an olive colour; nd the bark, leaf, and wood, when green, smell s wrong as the clove. The island of Gilolo is opposite tQ Tidore, where therefore two kings, one of whom has six hundred, he other six hundred and fifty children. The in habitants are a mixture of Moors, and Gentiles, which lash change their god daily, worshipping the first thing they meet in a morning. Their king is said to be very richest was with regret the kings of the island sus served them to depart, embracing them at their go ing, with tears in their eyes, sending many presents to the emperor, and conducing them in their ca noes to an island called Mare, where they took in wood and' water. Here they were obliged to leave one of their ships, on account of her springing a leak, which they could not then flop, under care of some of their men, whom they ordered, if possible to bring her home-to Spain.-,Being now reduced t9 forty. six Europeans, and only thirteen Indians-they steered fouth-wceftfrom,6 the
the island of Mare, pasting by the islands of Cha. can, Latona, Sick, Goghi, Caphi, Sulacho, Lu. matolo, Tenets, Burn, Ambon, Buda, Celaruri, Benaia, Ambalao, Abandon, Zorobua, Zolot, Noce. amor, Malian, &c. till they came to Mallua, in eight degrees thirty minutes south latitude, where they tarried fifteen days to repair; and found plenty-of pepper, with leaves like those of the mulberry The inhabitants are men-eaters; the women us :vows and arrows; and the men wear their hai and beards rolled up on canes they were told by their Molucca pilots, of peo. ple in a neighbouring island called Arucetto, only a cubit high, with such long ears, that they cover themselves with one, while they repose on ths other; but to this account they gave little credit, nor could they go themselves to examine the true, wind and tide being against them.,On the 25th of January, 1522, they left Moluc ca, and the day following arrived at the island o Timor, where there is plenty of gold and prove sion, with ginger, and many kinds of fruits; the venereal distemper is commoner here than in an other part of the world from hence, at a vast distance west north-we they came up with the island of Rude, where there is plenty of cinnamon. There are many sands Scattered through this trade, as-far as Guiana-Major and the cape of Malacca in the East-indies. Quia. va the Lesser is as big as the island of Madeira, an is but half a league from the Greater Guiava.,They departed from the island of Timor on the ,l with of February, 1522, fleering weft south-sea, leaving the northern coasts to the right, palling without Sumatra, and avoiding the Terra Firma because of the Portuguese, and were seven weeks beating off the Cape of Good Hope with the wind ahead,. . ' ' " . ~~~~~~~~WheI
When they had doubled the cape, some were for venturing into the Mozambick, which belonged to the Portuguese, because victualling grew short, and several of their men were sick; but this scheme being strongly opposed, they continued at sea two months longer, failing south-west without touching any where, in which time they loll one and twenty men whom they buried in the sea, and they were all near dying for want thus weakened and distressed, they were force into St. Jago, one of the Cape de Verd islands, in, the hands of Portugal, where they sent deputies oa chore to represent their miseries, and entreat assistance and provision. They were allowed some mea sures of rice, which being consumed, thirteen of the men who went ashore for that or some other sort of provision, were clapped into prison, a circumstance which struck such a panic into the rest, that they hoisted sail, and quitted these territories as expeditiously as poflible.,On the 7th of September they came to anchor in the port of St. Lucar near Evil, where having. discharged their ordnance for joy, they proceeded barefooted, and in their shirts, to the cathedral church, to thank God for their'prefervation.,The straits which they had discovered, were first called the Straits of St. Victoria, from this this, a. name that has since justly given place to that of the great Magellan. The other ship which they had left behind them at the island of Mare, after wards returned by the Great Sea to the Welt Indies, and arrived at Darien, where the South Sea is divided from the Western Ocean, only by a fniall tract of land; and here lie Hispaniola, Cu ba, and other islands belonging to, the Spaniards.,Th'
Vol 31r,W.51
he First VO Y A G E of Sir FRANCIS,DRAKE. CHAP. I. me account of sir Francis Drake's father; and his sri going to sea : he is ill used by the .Spaniards; but escapes and suffers great distress. Serves the queen for some time; fails with three ships .rn an expedition against the Spaniards; builds a pinnace at Port Pheasant, and is joined by captain Rawfe; takes two finally vessels: same account of the nation of the Symerons. Drake proceeds with his pinnaces up the country, attacks Nombre de Dio;, and it wounded. Rawfe leaves them: Drake sizes three ships in the road of Cartagena ;finks one of his own .sips, and careens in tbefoiund of Darien: he lands en the side of the Rio Grand., and is well treated by the Spaniards: endangered by a form i boards several feels, angels-plenty of provision. On of bis brothers makes a league with the Symerons; an other of them dies. He begins his march over land for Panama; has a view of the South Sea for the firs time: receives intelligence of vafi'treafure; butdif- appointed of it by the folly one of his men. San ta Cruz plundered: Drake's civility to the ladies: an account cf a rich miser : receives farther intel licence, and is joined by a French hip.,HE employment of sir Francis Drake's father has been disputed by Stowe and Camden; he former affirming him to have followed these; the latter to have belonged to the church, and to,have
have held the living of Ignore on the banks of til river Medway: this account we Should rather in. cline to believe, notwithstanding Stowe's great ac. curacy and industry, as Camden tell us, that h had his information from sir Francis himself. this he as it will, it is pretty certain that he w born in or near Taviftock in Devonshire, about t year 1540; that his father was a very zealous pr tenant, and removed into Kent while his son v yet in his infancy ,That his father was a man of some estimation evident, from the honour done him by Franc earl of Bedford, who flood godfather to our illus tribus adventurer, and distinguished him by his ow name; the only advantage he seems to have der ed from this nobleman, at leash in his younger yea He was bound apprentice to the master of a vers trading to Holland and France, whom he pleas so extremely well, that he left him his flip when died, being unmarried, and having no heir. Inlbi he sailed for some time ; but sold it, to go purser a flip to the Bay of Biscay; after which expedition le made a voyage to the coast of G guinea, b. ing th only twenty years old. In 15'.5 he sailed wi captain Lovel to the West Indies, where he h some reason to complain of the usage of the SS niards: and in 1567, having disposed of his wh substance for that purpose, he joined sir john Ha king in his expedition to the ccati of Guinea, whe having taken in a cargo of slaves, they determine to fleer for the Caribbee islands, as the best mark but were by foul weather forced into St. John Ulna, a Spanifh settlement in the bay of Mexico where, had they been dishonourable in their pr meetings, they might have made a confider booty, by seizing tome ships then lying in the ha your, very richly laden; but this step they avoid ed, and the Spaniards retaliated their generous
taking the firma opportunity of treacherously as. using the English fleet, which they almost entire destroyed, treating Â£uch of the sailors as fell into heir hands in the cruellest mariner imaginable. The Judith, of which Drake was master, toge er with one vessel more, were all that escaped t of the six that had accompanied Hawkins; ee got out to sea, where they suffered extreme for want of provision, nor was it without great difficulty and hardship that Drake once more reach. his native country, firmly resolving to revenge, possible, this perfidious usage upon the Panics and his adherence to this resolution ap ars in the glorious atchievements of his ensuing fe. He served the crown for some time, on board one of the queen's ships ; by which means hav gin a good measure repaired his shattered for. ne, he made another voyage to the Spanish West dies in the year 1570, with the Dragon and the wan; and in I571 with the Swan only, purely the sake of surveying the coasts, and examin more closely into the strength and riches of the spanifh settlements, that he might be the better able to strike such a blow as would at the same me contribute to his glory and. advantage, and duce the insolence of there haughty unrelenting plunderers. His character of integrity as a man, his skill as tailor, and prudence as an officer being now firm. y established, he no sooner publickly declared his mention of fleering to the Spanish settlements in america, to make reprisals, than he was joined by I sufficient number of volunteers; and on the 24th )f May, 1572, he set sail from Plymouth, in the Paca, burthen seventy tons, accompanied by the swan of two hundred and fifty tons burthen, under :command of his brother John Drake; his company
ny confined of seventy three men and boys, and he was furnished not op!y with a year's provision, but well stored with ammunition ; having three pinna. ces besides, that might upon occasion be soon pw together, flowed on board in precession the 2d of June they made the Canary island; and on the 29th of the same month passed between Guardhouse and Dominica; on the south side which they came to anchor, where they remains three days to refresh their men, and found five cottages of palm-tree boughs, but no sign of in habitants: whence they inferred them to be theol national residence of fisher-mens They left th place on the gift of July, bending their course wards the main land of. America, and made P Pheasant, so called by Drake in a former vo. age, from the many birds of that sort found hei ibouts,This being a convenient port, he chose here build his pinnaces, timber fit for that purpose gro ing all along the shore; and James Rawfe, in Isle of Wight bark, with thirty men, who put in the same harbour in a few days after, being inform ed that they designed to surprise Nombre de Di determined to join them they quitted this place on the 22d of July, an in three days after took two small vessels lad with plank coming from Nombre de Dios, ill crews of which informed them, that rome soldier from the governor of Panama were daily expect at that town, to protect it from the insults of th Symerons, a black people, inhabiting the country b tween that place and Panama, being slaves that about eighty years before fled from the cruelty their Spanish tyrants, and by degrees reefed then selves into a nation. These people he treated vel civilly, setting them ashore, in hopes that their rep of his kindness might make the Symerons befriending
im; and knowing it was impossible for them to con y any intelligence about him to the town before his arrival, it being a considerable journey by land. However, taking with him fifty three men, with rums, trumpets, and warlike flores he proceeded the pinnaces, leaving the rest of his company with the ships, under the care of captain Rawfe, in secure and secret situation. He kept close under the shore all day, rowing ard at night till he came into the harbour, where getting between the town and a small ship just rived from Old Spain, laden with canary wine d other things, he forced her to the other side the bay, by these means preventing her from reading the alarm; and landing without any re stance, marched up to the fort; in which he und but six brass guns, and a few culverin, which dismounted. There happened to be but one an in the place, who fled and alarmed the town. Drake leaving a few of his men to guard the nnaces, and some others to keep possession of e fort, marched to reconnoitre a high'ground, here he knew there had been a design of plant g some pieces of cannon, but he found it had not en yet carried into execution. He then divided e sailors that accompanied him into two parties, fixing of sixteen men each; one under the com and of John Oxenham, was ordered to enter the wn on the east end, near the market-place, while himself led the rest up the principal street, sums beating and colours flying. his brother John rake coming up at the same time, struck such a information into the few inhabitants, who had 'awn themselves up near the governor's house, co ring the gate leading to Panama, in order to secure retreat, that, imagining the English to be much ore numerous than they were in reality; they rew down their arms, and precipitately fled after,two
two or three firings. The alarm-bell fill contain ed ringing; Drake ordered it to be silenced, a marched forwards towards the royal treasury, his was at that time immensely rich: in palling by t governor's house they perceived a horse ready fa died, as they supposed to carry off rome person consequence; and in the storehouse, the door( which was by chance in the confusion left ope an immense quantity of silver in large bars, no of which the men were allowed to meddle wil the aim of their leader being at commodities mini more valuable but a very violent form of thunder, light and rain, common to the climate, happening matt same time, damaged their arms, and much dish ned the men, who were also alarmed with an count of the pinnaces being in some danger; intimation threw them into confusion: howe our intrepid adventurer infifted.upon their proc ing, and would have certainly executed his del of plundering the treasury, had he not become fa through loss of blood, issuing from a wound in leg, which he had hitherto concealed; nor was without difficulty prevailed with to let it be fwa ed in his scarf, and to be carried on board of pinnace. In consequence of this misfortune, t were obliged to retreat to their vessels, with loss of one man, who happened to be the true ter they retired to a small but plentiful sand, a5 two leagues from the town, where they reste themselves, and were much mortified at hearing the vast riches they had left behind, an account which they not only learned from a negroes that deserted to them from the Spaniards, but from mouth of a gentleman who waited on them wit very civil message from the governor, who dreaded another visits
They then fell down the river to Port Plenty, in e Isle of Pines, where they had left their ships, which they reached August gift, when they were fitted by captain Rawfe, who declared his enter waning no farther hopes of their success, since they ere discovered all along the coast. After tarrying here six days, Drake sailed for cartagena, where, by the firing of the ordnance nd ringing the bells, they found they were/difco- red; but they seized upon a lip, burthen two hundred and forty tons, that lay in the.road, out ard bound; as also two smaller vessels, dispatch thither from Nombre de Dios, to give notice that rake was on the coast; the crews of the latter he treated very civilly, setting them ashore at their own request. He now, in concert with the carpenter of the wan, contrived to fink her, and this was done with a view of strengthening his pinnace, though, ad the sailors, who are generally obstinate, known t, they would never have allowed the scheme to ake effect: the affair was so artfully conducted, hat the hold was full of water, by means of three oles bored for that purpose in her bottom by the arpenter, before it was in the leash suspected; and y Drake's advice, after they had shifted her cargo, s they could not find the leak readily, they set re to her, to prevent her falling into the enemy's ands. He then appointed his brother to command his own flip, and went himself on board of the pinnace, the use of which he very well knew. As he was determined not to quit the coast without his booty, he found a convenient plentiful spot in the sound of Darien, wherein to ere tents for his men, and prepare such warlike stores as he flood in need of; here they were well covered from view, and in a neighbouring creek he secreted his vessel; by there-means
means hoping to have it believed that he was goo entirely off the coat.,Leavirig his brother here to take care of the si and the rest of the men, on the 8th of Septem he proceeded with two pinnaces for the Rio Cri de, keeping as much as possible out of sight. Th landed about two leagues to the westward of C thagena, where the Indians, whom they treat with great cordiality, supplied them with cattle a fresh provision, for which they gave them so pleasing trifles in exchange, and were promised be always supplied the next day they came to the mouth of t river, where they were assailed by a terrible for and were afterwards pestered by the mufquet against whose attacks they defended themselves anointing their bodies with lemon juice. Thecha net hereabouts was twenty three fathom deep, and broad, that to see from bore to shore required strong eye-sight: here they saw several houses, a being beckoned to by a Spaniard, they made fort shore, when he perceiving them not to be his count trymen, as he had at first imagined, betook him seif to his heels; however, they landed, and found some good bacon, cheese, white rusk, with differ went sorts of sweet-meats and conserves, togeh with a large quantity of sugar, o that they suppl their vessels with as much as they wanted.,In his course back he boarded several vesse in hope of finding gold, but was disappointed they being loaded only with provisions and both necessaries: however, from these he received inform nation of such preparations as were making again him by the Spaniards. On the 13th of Sept ber he returned to Port Plenty, with proviso enough to serve a numerous army, which was posed of in such a manner, that if the island lhoul in part be surprised by the Spaniards, and their,proviso0
oviflon be cut of,- there should yet remain suffice in another. During his absence, his brother John had con ded a league of friendship with the Symerons; d he promised to give them all the assistance pose again the Spaniards, from whom there people formed him they had lately taken a large quantity gold and fiver, which they had thrown into the er, at a depth, whence it was impossible to record it; for it was a commodity to which they paid regard, having seized it for no other reason but cause they knew their enemies were fond of it. As the Spaniards avoid bringing down their eaures in the rainy season, which now approach Drake resolved to stay, cruising in there seas the usual time of their arrival, and plundered a t number of ships; during which time several his men, among whom was his brother Joseph rake, died of Creatures; and, not long before, brother. John was slain in gallantly boarding a gate, which escaped him: after which accident moored his flip, resolving to appear no more he was certain of the Spanifh treasure being ar ed at Nombre de Dios, which he was loon as ed of, not oily by the Symerons, who brought constant intelligence, but alto by some passers whom he seized in a frigate that paired near , whose throats he found it difficult to save i the revenge of the Symerons; by whom being courage thereto, and having had firing proofs their fidelity, he determined to march over land Panama, the Symerons, who guided them, car ng a large quantity of provisions, and when there wed, supplying them by means of their bows and rows. This journey was begun on the 3d of February, a company of forty-eight people, eighteen of tom were English, who had nothing to income VOL. III. E 'mo Ie
mode them but their arms: on the third day their journey, they came to a town belongings the Symerons, situated on the side of a hill, n far from a good river, and enclosed with a whig mud-wall. The inhabitants were very neat, cil fering in dress very little from the Spaniards, aa behaving with great sincerity :- here their attend into, or rather guides, bathed themselves, a changed their apparel; all .kinds of provision see ed to be very plenty, and they reverenced the cn though they did not seem to have much notion religion : however, our leader had some of th taught the Lord's Prayer, and instructed in the formed religionists town is thirty-five leagues from Nom .dd Dios, and fifty-five from Panama; it is guard carefully-from the Spaniards, against whom th hatred of this people is implacable, for they o surprise, and cut them off in the woods. He this place on the 7th of February, having staid th but one night; and on the 17th of the same mo ascended a very high hill, where, from a trees the Symerons pointed out to him, he on the hand beheld the North-sea, which he had left, the South-sea on the other, whither, from moment he determined, if poflibie, to fail in English flip; a thought which seems not to .been harboured by any person before that ti il a plain, two day's journey beyond this, the is so very fruitful, that the grass grows beyond reach of the cattle, so that the inhabitants deli it five or six times in the year; notwithfiand which, it springs up again in three days; and is ascribed to the fertile dews that daily fail in sie'izhtful climate panama being now often in sight, they were lived to keep as close as possible; for which red tile iiruck out of the common road, and at latl,c[f
ttly arrived in a grove lying in the road to Nombre Dios, at a very little distance from Panama; re they sent out a Symeron in disguise, by way spy, who Coon returned with intelligence, that e treasurer of Lima intended that very night, to ther with his family, to. set out for Nombre de os, there to embark for Old Spain; having in strain fourteen mules, some loaded with gold, me with silver, and one with valuable jewels; d this night also, there would pass the same way o caravans, each attended by fifty mules, loaded th some provision, and a small quantity of fil r. Soon after the receipt of this intelligence, they zed upon a sentinel who confirmed the account; consequence of which Drake hid himself, with If his men, fifty paces from the high way, while hn Oxenham, and one of the Symeron chiefs, with the other half, took post on the opposite side. short, things were admirably disposed, when one the men, M ho had drank too much, got up to what approached, just as the mules loaded with vision were passing, of which Drake had com anded that not the least notice might be taken, and ing perceived by a Spaniard, who suspected being extraordinary from such an appearance, he ing a white shirt on, which was their mark of intion, the Don made off as far as he could, d spread the alarm, so that the treasurer turned s baggage out of the road; and only the mules with provision came forward, some of which they iced, and, to their mortification, got only two rfe loads of silver; the muleteer at the same time Fling them, they were discovered. However, they marched forward to Santa Cruz, wing first refreshed themselves, and made ure of mules to carry them, which they dismissed as :y came near the town, where they were met by.,E 2 a party
a party of soldiers, who summoned them to furred der, promising them kind usage; an offer whit they made very light of, standing to receive the fire, and so effectually returned it, that the enern was Coon put to flight, upon whose rear they fd. lowed hard, and entered the town with them pell meal; the Symerons supporting them very bravely and through the whole action behaving with gr intrepidity santa Cruz consists of about fifty pretty hous; it has a governor and other officers, and there firing ware-houses to receive the goods which brought down hither from Nombre de Dios, by river Clara; from hence they are carried by m to Panama. Here he found some plunder, all wh he divided equally among the Symerons and his o men. There were three ladies here who had co to this place to lie in, the air being much bel than at Nombre de Dios, to which they belong no sooner was the captain informed of their situ tion, than he ordered them an especial protection visiting them himself as loon as possible, to peer their labouring under any unnecessary fears. It one of Drake's principal rules every where, to have with as much humanity arid decorum as cumfitnces would permit; a conduce that-cont bute not only to the increase of his reputation but often to the success of his expeditions though he was determined to tarry upon coast some time longer, he was uneasy for his fl from which he had now been about a fortnight! sent; wherefore he returned by the way that heh come, as expeditiously as possible, and found' e thing in a- g.hod order as he had left it; a circa fiance which gave him some satisfaction. Hen held a general council, wherein was debated w was next to be attempted; and some of the Sy sons advised the attacking the house of Pezoro,,miferb
miserable wretch deeply concerned in the mines, hose income was above two hundred pounds a day, which he locked up in large chests. He lived near eragua, a town to the weft.of Nombre de Diosi. is house being of stone, and out of danger of be g burned; however, the Symeron, having been formerly in his service, promised to guide them to is treasures without any great difficulty. But rome drake's men proposed they should consider, prior o every thing, how to preserve their healths, by obtaining fresh supplies of provisions, of which ey had very little remaining. This shep the captain thought very necessary i therefore he ordered the Bear frigate towards Tous zu, under the care of John Oxenbam, with orders tiring off whatever provisions he could meet with; hile he himself intended to ply off the Habeas, n hope of picking up some of the treasure-barks at pass and repafs;between Veranda and Nicaragua The expedition against Pezoro he wisely imaged too laborious for his men, as they must march ver a large trad of land, and cut their way through he woods, whereas he intended to preserve their length for another attempt less laborious, and not cfs beneficial. Oxenham took but one frigate, with about two hundred hens, twenty-eight hogs, and good store f mais; the captain himself was obliged to retire, ending by the firing of several guns along the coast hat he was discovered, having seized only a fniall effet, in which there was some gold, and a pilot born in Genoa, who informed them that they had read an universal terror every where, and that ezoro was removing to the South-sea with all his inches, for fear of falling into their hands. From he prisoners that Oxenham had seized, they un erfood there were two gallies built at Nombre de sos, but not yet launched, which were intended,E3 as
as a convoy to the Clara fleet, the treasures which now principally engrossed our adventure attention, who to give his men proper spirits, pertained them all in a sumptuous manner on doth of March, being Easter Sunday.,They were the next day alarmed by the apple: ance of a sail bearing down on them, which prov to be a French Flip, the crew of which were great want of water, wherewith Drake supplied the and they being informed of his designs,' offered join him, which after some deliberation was pe knitted, as this flip was eighty tons burthen; thei being but twenty, and the pinnace no more th ten tons.,C H A P.- 11, Drake fliers to Rio-francis, wbhre be leaves hi's,,gate,- and goes forward with his pinnaces: hei *Â·cveral mules loaded with gold and silver : they I-11 of the Frenchmen: makes a dangerous atom to gain his pinnaces, about which he hasfomefeaan out at last comes up with them: the French J leaves them : Drake rewards the Symerons and mise them :' 'an instance of his integrity : a ia a timely fore offre/h water ths ufi of the Syst ,ons Drain's humanity in this expedition:: arret at Plymouth : Jrves against the rebels in Ireland and afterwards is pretended by lord chancellor at',EAVING the two ships in a safe harbour, the manned the frigate and two pinnaces with twenty French, and fifteen English and-Symerons bending their course to Rio Francisco; here th water being shallow, they left the frigate under th care of one Bubble, charging him to lie close til,they
hey returned with the pinnaces; with which they oce&eded a far as convenient, and then landed, living Bubble orders to meet them there again in three or four days; they marched forward with eat regularity and silence, guided by the Syme- ns, to the great amazement of the French, to horn there people bore no great love, and halted within a mile of the high road, by which the mules tuft necessarily pars, where they reposed and re relied themselves. Next day being the I ft of April, 573, they were agreeably disturbed by the noise of the bells which re hung about the mules, and sallied out upon three caravans, one confiding of fifty, the two others of ceenty mules, each richly laden with gold and fil er: they were guarded by forty-five soldiers, who after discharging their arms, whereby the French captain was severely wounded, and one Symeron filled, retreated in order to summon more aflilf- alee: the adventurers made the belt use possible of heir time, loading themselves with as many wedges f gold as they could carry, and burying the red f the treasure in the sand, resolving to return to recover it, as soon as they could safely flow what they thought nos valuable; they then retreated to 'wards Rio-francisco, leaving behind them the French Captain, who fainted in the wood with loss of blood, and one French tailor who had overloaded himself with gold, and who discovered the spot in which they had buried what treasure they had left behind, on being put to the torture by the Spaniards into whose hands he fell.,On the following day, being the 3d of April, they came down to Rio Francisco, where seeing no sign of the pinnaces, they began to fear they were lost; and the more so, as seven Spanish pinnaces were ho veering at a distance, whom happily a sudden gust of wind and rain forced to sheer off.,E 4 Drake
Drake began now to fear that, in case his pi names were taken, they would put his men to t torture, to force them to discover where his riga and the ships were; but knowing if this was real! the case, they would be some time before th could reach his lips, he encouraged-and affix his men in making a raft, for attempting to get board, hoping to be beforehand with the etenim In this attempt he was accompanied only by on Englishman called John Smith, two hardy Friend. men and a Symeron-which lait endeavoured I persuade him, in case his ships were destroyed, live among his countrymen, who, he allured hi would do any thing for his service having lashed the raft pretty securely, erected sail made of a biscuit bag, and fixed a sort of n der, they committed themselves to the mercy of to waves, sitting up to the waist in water, often up to the arm-pits; and after a fatiguing voyage about six hours, obtained sight of their pinnaces hiring behind a point, where Drake rightly judge they would anchor; he immediately ran his on the nearest Shore, and went round to them land, where after keeping them for some time in suspence, he unfolded to them his-vast success, ac painting the Frenchmen with the lots of their two countrymen, for which he promised to proc them satisfaction. He now learned that a han gale from the west had prevented the pinnaces from coming up to Rio Francisco at the time appointed; however, they made a shift to reach it that night where they took in their comrades and the tree sure, then directly steered for their frigate and ib ships, where the captain divided the gold and file in two equal parts, between the French and Eng' lifo, to their mutual fatisfacaion.,Some few days after this partition, when they had regulated every thing, Drake sent a detachment,h~~~~~~d reg 1 r!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
twelve English and sixteen Symerons to bring way the rest of the treasure; but they could find y thirteen bar of five handsome wedges of gold, rest having been discovered and carried away, d the ground dug up for a mile round; however, y brought; this off, together with one of the frenchmen they had left behind, who by chance aped from the hands of the Spaniards. Their thoughts were now seriously bent on re ring home, but first imagined a visit to Rio range not amiss, as thereabouts they might chance light on some small vessels laden with provision, which they flood in need of, before they set out upon heir voyage to Europe. The French ship having en before formally dismissed, left them off Car agent, within two leagues of which Drake passed, with St. George's flag flying at his main-top mast ad; about two the same morning they seized a gate from Rio Grande, laden with mais, hens, dogs, and honey, the last of which was of vast ser ice to their sick. In five days they arrived at Habeas, where they aid seven days, and here they took their pinnaces pieces, allowing the Symerons to take out of em, and also of the frigates, the iron-work, of which they are extremely fond; and whatever else ey should take a liking to; the captain at the same me making them several presents of linen and silks, r their wives and female relations. One ps them resented him with four wedges of gold, in return r a very handsome cutlass, which he gave him; nd these, such was his disinterested integrity, he rew into the common fRock; declaring, that he' ought it would-be unjust not to share with his owners and copartners, who bought the cutlass, he price for which it was sold. Off the Havannah, they took a bark laden with ides, which they dismissed, after having light-,E 5 end
end her of her cargo, which proved of great to them in mending their pump sat Cape St. Antony they flocked themselves wi turtle eggs and turtle, which did them great fermi in their voyage; and being in great want of wat there fell a prodigious Shower of rain, so very ha pity as to afford them a sufficient quantity, with their touching, as had been intended, at Newfound land they had been certainly much obliged to t Symerons for the success of their expedition, w not only from their natural virtue, but from ths justly founded enmity to the Spaniards, had be induced to give them all imaginable assistance; fern ing as their guides in the most intricate paths, be ing their purveyors, their builders, and their po terms. They not only supplied them with proviso, but also made cabins for them of palm-branch, occasionally bore their heavy baggage, and two them joined to carry any of the tailors that prove faint or weary on the road: besides, they manifest ed, on many occasions, strong judgment and per. fpicuity, shewed numberless instances of unshaken fidelity, and in every action behaved with mans courageous of two hundred frigates, from one hundred to ten tons burthen, that belonged to the fever contiguous sea-ports, and sailed between Martha. gena and Nombre de Dios, there was (scarcely ore that did not at one time or other fall into their hands in this expedition, which they generally set adrift to return to their owners when they judged proper, treating such prisoners as fell into their hands with the greatest benevolence, protecting them from ths fury of the Symerons, who were their mortal ene mies, and giving them their liberty at a proper felt Â£on. ft could not be said that they caused the death vs any one prisoner that fell into their hands, or,1 ~~~~~'-~~ thji~th
at they destroyed any one vessel that did not at mpt, either by treachery or open force to annoy sep. They Wretched over from Cape Florida to the es of Scilly, in twenty-three days, and came to anchor in Plymouth-harbour, August the 9th, 1573, time of sermon; which the people soon quitted m notice of their arrival; the people crowding to e shore to crown him with that welcome which is glorious expeditionjuftly demanded. Being of a truly patriot spirit, he in some time tied out three frigates, at his own expence, with which he served against the rebels in Ireland, un er his illustrious patron, Walter earl of Essex, and as of great advantage to the crown. When this obkman died, he was befriended by Christopher aston, then vice-chamberlain, and afterwards lord ancestor, through whose means he obtained the been's commission to go to the South Sea, his for er successes procuring him plenty of volunteers, nd all who were acquainted with his character or imfclf contributing to forward this expeditions 6 'the
FRAN CIS DRAKE.,CHAP. I. Dp'abefailsfrcm Plymouth : his ships hurt by aflorm,,arrives at Maggiore: the inhabitants make him tf. sers cf aj.lare ; but prove treacherous, and cor effrc on f his mm, who is sent home by the kings Fere : hefiizes famine ifhing-ve/els and a large sip, at Cape Blancoo; where the inhabitants fell tis wiom.enr and children: he comes t'p with the ife f May ; the climate temperate, and why: the ia f St. ago an asylum for runaway laves : a .n. cano discovered; they approach the Cape de Ftrdl islands; they pass the equinoctial, and are david' fJrcm Ihe Christopher: Drake near being los in its tier .Plate ; the natives gr'wz familiar, and J hrs hat; a conspiracy against the admiral at Post S. Julian : captain Haughty hanged. O N the ruth of November 1573, Drake failed,out of Plymouth-Sound, with five ships, viz, the Pelican, afterwards called the Hind, burthen one hundred tons, commanded by himself;' thetis zabeth, of eighty tons, John Winter, captain; the J-arigo'd, a bark of thirty tons burthen, underlie case of John Thomas; the Swan, a fly-boat of sis ty turns, John Chester, commanders and a pinnace of fifteen tons, under the command of Thomas .Icon : but they were forced by contrary winding to Yarmouth ; where being much damaged by a ' ion'- i cri, in which the main-mast of themes i'ican ;:.cnt by the board, and the Marigold was crimen on flore, they were obliged to put back to i;,n.:oi.:th t:, refit, ;whence, having repaired all da f,;aTes, t;Icy fr: fail in good condition on the 13th,9 off
December, with the wind much more favour able than it had been before. On the 25th of the same month, they saw Cape anti, a high land of Barbary, situated in thirty wo degrees thirteen minutes north latitude, and on he 27th arrived off Maggiore, eighteen leagues more to the southward, the place which had been appointed for their general rendezvous, in case the lips should have been separated. The island is about a mile from the main land,; under the dominion of Fesse, and the inhabitants, hough Mahometanss, will drink privately as much fine as they can get. Here is a very good harbour, with plenty of several sorts of fowl, particularly pigeons, and tome wholesome rich. , They remain d here four days, to put together.one of their pin woes, during which time some of the islanders ap roached the sea-side, making signs-of peace, and ;vo of them came on board in the admiral's boat, which was sent on shore for that purpose, and left ,ne of its hands by way of hostage till their return ;. here told him the reason of their coming was, to rosser their friendship, and to know if he flood in need of provision, with which they could furnish in; which they promised to do on the following ay; and the admiral having presented them with avdins, shoes, linen, and some other necessaries, sniffed them; those on shore, freely releasing the stage on the restoration of his companion. Next day, a large body of them appeared on the eta shore, as if loaded with goods, on which the boat put off to receive them; and one of the men cabin, out hastily, as. he imagined himself among ritnts, was immediately seized upon, and others f them quitting an ambuscade, in which they had secreted themselves, the tailors were glad to recover heir boat, and put off with precipitation.,This
This piece of treachery irritated the admiral ex extremely, who landing a body of men, marched; good way into the country to no purpose, for t Moors every where avoided him; and the pinna being finished, they left this place on the 3othol December.,The name of him, who had been made prisoner, was John Fry; he was carried before the king Fesse, where he was examined with respect to hi country and destination of this fleet and having answered that they were English, bound to tht freights, under admiral Drake, who had artfully caused this report to be spread, to conceal his rei design, the king sent him back with the stronger assurances of friendship, and some presents for hi commander; who being gone before Fry's being f at liberty, care was taken to send him home England in a merchant lhip.,On the 3d of January, they fell in with son Spanish fishing-boats, on three of which the seized; the 17th they anchored at Cape Blanc where they found a flip salt moored, with only two men left to guard her, and of this they mia prize. Here they staid a few days to lay in a shod of fresh provisions, of which they found fresh pro visions, of which they found great plenty, andtli admiral exercised his men on shore, to fit them well for the land as the sea-service : the inhabitant would have disposed of some slaves to them, for th purpose offering a poor woman with a child sucks ing at her breast to sale; but there were warmest did not chute to deal in: however, he out of cOn. passion supplied them with fresh water, of whit they were in great want, they giving him in rebut amber-grease and other precious .ums.,Having furnished themselves with such nececf? ries as the island afor(l.d, they discharged all the prizes, retaining ors, a bark of forty tons, leaving,cgs
Â®ne of their own (mall ones behind, and quitted Cape Blancoo the 22d of January, taking with them a small Portuguese vessel bound to the Cape de Verd islands for fait.,On the 27th they fell in with the isles May, a high land, where were rome Portuguese: here they found the villages by the sea-coast abandoned, and the freshwater wells flopped up; however, a body of men commanded by captain Winter, and Mr. Doughty, were ordered to march a little way up the country, and take a survey of it, which they did, finding the soil very fertile, great plenty of fruit, but particularly of figs, fine cocoa's, and grapes of a shoal delicious flavour; the air. was tern operate, wholesome, and pleasant,, though in the midst of winter, and this is easily accounted for, if we consider, that by the nearness of this island to the line, the heat of the fun is never wanting. They saw a number of goats. and kids, but too fw'ift.footed to be easily caught;. though they migbtr if they pleased-have brought off many dead and withered carcasses, which were laid in their way as if to monk them. From this behaviour they infer red, as was indeed the truth, that the inhabitants had been forbid to traffic with them they at length discovered plenty of. water, but at a distance too great from the ships to think of bringing any on boards There were also large quantities of wild hens, and.falt made by.the.a6tion of the fun upon the sea-water, for which there is a good trade drove with the neighbouring illands.,On the rift of January, they arrived off St. Sago an island, the valleys of which are inhabited entirely by Portuguese. The hills are a common sanctuary for such unhappy saves as are lucky enough o escape from their tyrannic makers, to.whom, by heir prodigious. increase, they. are now become lois a constant terror. The admiral, near displace,
place, took a Portuguese ship loaded with wine the mailer of which, with all the crew, except tb pilot, the admiral Set at liberty, giving them on of his own pinnaces, and restoring them their cloaths together with a butt of wine. There was another Portuguese vessel at the same time in sight, which they ineffectually chaced. To prevent the reader' being surprized at their attacks on the Portuguese it is necessary to observe, that Portugal was at fhi time a province of Spain.,As they cheered off from the island, two or three small towns in sight fired after them, either asa mark of their rejoicing at being rid of such trouble. some companions, or to intimate their having been prepared o receive them there is an island twelve leagues to the south. west of St. Jago, called del Fog, on the north side of which is a volcano that flames ip often two or three times in an hour, diffusing a light almost as firing as that of the moon, to a very great di[. tance; besides often throwing out pumice-stones, and other calcined substances, even far into the Tea; however, there must be something either tempting or advantageous in the situation, seeing it is fettled by the Portuguese.,On an island two leagues farther south, than which few can be more pleasant, there grows va piety of oranges, lemons, cocos, and innumerable vegetables, as well useful as delightful ; and the cooling streams wherewith it is watered, in their progress to the sea, improve the landskip, while they assist its verdure, and contribute to its fertility. I! is called by the Portuguese, Brava; but the sea being unfathomable round it, consequently no po0ili bilitv of anchoring; it is avoided by shipping, to which cause its want of inhabitants may be justly at. tribute; for some of the admiral's people having traversed the whole territory, met with no sign o
ny human creature, except a poor hermit, who imply avoided them; in whose cell they scarcely ound any thing besides an ill-contrived altar, on which was a crucifix, and some images of rude 'workmanship. Heir here well-flocked with water, they quitted he Cape de Verd sands, and stretched over to arts the line, in their approach to which they und the weather very changeable, sometimes quite calm, and often very tempestuous; they w plenty of dolphins, bonitos, and other fish all he way, particularly flying fish; a species that be g pursued by sharks and other fishes of prey, use heir sins as wings, whereby they (bring to a good might out of, the w ter, and fall down when their picture is exhausted, often dropping upon deck,. r are-they bad food. February the 17th, they passed the line, and on 5th of April, spied land, for the first time, in a un of upwards of sixty days, which proved to be ail; and they were no sooner in sight of the coast, an great fires were lighted up in several parts of' ,which they supposed to be the usual sacrifices,, ate by the inhabitants to the devil, on the ap france of ships, accompanied with strange incantations and infernal ceremonies, by which they hop to raise tempests, and destroy them i however,. ey were for once disappointed. On the 7th of April, they were parted from the christopher, in a storm of thunder, lightning, and in, but they came up with her on the with, at ape Joy, where they flopped to take in fresh wa r. Here they found a small harbour, where the lips rode very safely, the force of the sea being ruken by a large rock, on which were a number leads, some of which they killed and kept for od, being very wholesome, though not over and bove palatable. They could trace no signs of in-habitants,
habitants, though the air was mild, the soil riel and the country pleasant, abounding with wild den however, some of the sailors affirmed they discover, ed the traces of a human creature, but easily beyond the common proportionally next steered for the river Plate, where the filled water in fifty-three and fifty-four fathom, h there being no safe road for the (hips, they putt sea again; and on the night of the 27th, the Swa and another smaller vessel was parted from them thereat lais, found a bay that promised a good 16 caption. The admiral, who was extremely wig tant, and never trusted any report, if possible, his own judgment, having taken his boat to goo Â£hore and examine the coast, was overtaken by fog, so extremely heavy-that he thought proper return to his flip, which he had not been redit able to find, if captain Th:oinrs, on the appear of bad weather, had not turned out with a view seek him. However, he went on shore, some fl time after, and found plenty of provision and w ter; the inhabitants being well made, strong, nimble, leaping and dancing with signs of mi and good humour; they were not averse to tra though they would take nothing out of any m hand, but every thing muss be laid for them on ground, for their examination. The next day t were joined by the Swan; and the Marigold a Christopher, which had been out uponthat errand returned with the pleasing news of their hai-found a safe harbour, whither they guided thewhb fleet, and the Swan was burned, by the admiral order, as a superfluous vessel, her provisions a iron-work being first divided among the fleet the people inhabiting hereabouts, paint tb faces; they are comely; strong and, well-proP toned, wearing a sort of bandage round their lea and wrapping about their waists the skin of a be
with the hair upon it. 'They are not without some rt of military discipline, bearing two arrows a- piece, and a bow about an ell long. They were - first extremely fly of coming near the English; ut the admiral having ordered some baubles to be ed to a ftafftfuck in the ground, and left for them o take at pleasure, they came soon after and re owed them, leaving ostrich feathers, and some cu. ious toys in exchange; then the admiral and some f his men approached nearer the hill on which they ere drawn up, but he retreated on seeing them ire efoic gns of fear, and prepare to retire: this ondud convincing the natives that he had no ill coins against them, they at length became more liar; in so much that two of them, attracted the thins of the point d' Efpagne wherewith :it as laced, slily came behind the admiral, and stole. ;s lat oflhis head, with which they made off, and sided the spoil, one keeping the lace, and the her the hat: some of them paint all their bodies lack, except their necks, which they colour white; hers paint one shoulder black, and the other white, d many of them tinge their legs black, over which ey paint white moons; so that they cut very mot figures and this continual daubing so effeau- ly closes up the pores of the body that they be me callous to cold; their food they eat raw, and naw it like dogs with their teeth. To this place the admiral gave the name of Seal ay, from the large quantity of these creatures that frequent it, two hundred being killed in an hour; re is also a sort of bird, so stupid as to wait to. knocked on the head; and many ostriches, the high of which bird is as large as the leg of a size le keep.; they cannot fly, nor yet are they easily en, for being very nimble, they run fast, and itg stones behind them at their pursuers with pretty
ty good aim, for they can grasp any thing in ths talons they next came to anchor in a place which MI magellan had named Port St. Julian, where head moral going afore in his boat, as usual, to curve the land, accompanied by six other people, wash some danger from the treachery of the natives, wh few his gunner, a man for whom he had a tends regard; however, he revenged it by killing Ã³t murderer with his own hand; and the following day the body was buried in the ground with great solemnity. Here they found a gibbet, on which many years before, Magellan had executed foa of his people who had conspired his death; ai here justice required a sacrifice of the same so fro'mDrake, in the person of captain Doughty, wk notwithstanding the admiral's firma regard for hia had premeditated his death, and his evil designs ing fully proved upon him, he was hanged up the same spot: . there have not been wanting foa who would fain have fixed this as a stain u Drake's memory, though, by all certain account he was used with the greatest lenity. imaginable He was buried here, and a large stone fixed at a end of the grave; on which was his name engray in Latin.-,C A' '
CHAP. II recalls in with the freights of Magellan: a de scription <f the coast, and currents: he enters the South Sea, but is driven back by a Form; loses his anchor, and ti parted from his vice admiral: he arrives at Mocha ; the natives murder two of hi men: he seizes a very rich flip at St. ago, and rifles the town: is in want of water, and hindered from getting it at Coquimbo he takes a large' quantity es silver from a Spaniard who lay asleep on the road, andfeizes Jfme Peruvian Sheep richly leaden . he enters the harbour of Lima, and quits it in puri suit of the Cacafuego, comes up with and takes it; this hip immensely rich: seizes the town of Guam tulco, and takes the members of the court of justice prisoners: an earthquake: Nova Albion discovered the inhabitants described the country surrendered to Drake, whom the king himself crowns: Drake quits this coal, and arrives fs the La drones.,N the I7th of Auguff, they left this port, and fell in with the freights of Magellan on e 20th, where they met so many shifting, and he wind veering so very often, that it distressed hem extremely; the breadth of the streights is rm four leagues to one league, but never less or more. The land on both sides extremely high, covered with snow, and the sudden squalls of wind om thence put them often-in danger; yet the entry wears always a face of verdure, notwithstanding the continual severity of the weather, and any kind of vegetables thrive there very well. It had been before imagined, that the current in fie freights always set one way, but they now,observed
observed the contrary, from the ebb and flood, It water rising five fathom all along the coast. 0 the 24th of August, they made an island in th streights, where there were such multitudes of pen gains, that they killed three thousand in one day this is a sort of bird about the bigness of a goose which cannot fly,- and is good food. There ai various other sands both on the southern and eai fern parts of the Freights, between which the fe pours into them as at the main entrance. Septem ber the 6th, they entered the South Sea at the cap or head shore but the next day, they were driven out of it mon than two hundred leagues in longitude, and ox degree southward of the freights, by a tempest whit lasted a long time; on the i5th there was an eclii of the moon, from which they hoped a favour change of weather to no purpose, for neither the winds or waves abate their fury. It was at time they lost the Marigold, John Thomas co mander, whom they never had the good fortune meet again the first land they could possibly m was an harbour to the northward of the cape America, out of which they were driven by thee finance of the tempest, being obliged to leave t anchor behind them; and here they were divi from their vice-admiral the Elizabeth, whom the best of her way to England-,Havingrecovered the other mouth of the foreign they came to anchor among the islands in sis' seven degrees south latitude, where there was client water, and plenty of wholesome her which were very serviceable to the tick. Hvi thus recruited themselves a little, and got the ter of their fatigue, they stretched over to thee of Chili, which is situated to the north-leaf a east; though in the common maps it is defcri,otherwi
otherwise, .perhaps from the coast not being well now. They cast anchors the 29th of November, in e island Mocha, here the admiral and ten men went on lore, where they were met by some of e natives, who gave them potatoes and two fat eej, in return for a few trifling commodities; but ey treacherously seized upon and murdered two f the men who were sent ashore the next day for ater; this was occasioned by their mistaking them r Spaniards, who have behaved to them with great cruelty, which they retort with every favourable op ortunity. They now continued their course towards Chili, nd an Indian who was fishing off the coast, milking them for Spaniards, gave them intelligence a large (hip laden for Peru, then lying at St. Jas o; to which he with great readiness piloted them r a trifling reward. Her crew confided of eight spaniards and three negroes, who supposing them sends, invited them on board to drink with them, summons they readily obeyed, by boarding her, nd clapping the crew under hatches; one of which, boldly leaping overboard, swam on shore and alarm d the inhabitants with this accident, who quick abandoned the town. When he had secured his w prize, in which he found pure gold-of Baldwin to the value of thirty-seven thousand pistoles, he admiral manning her boat and his own, went n Shore and rifled the town, together with a small chapel, whence he took a silver chalice, two cruets, nd the altar-cloth; there he made a present of o his chaplain. Having taken on board a good quantity of Chili wine, and some very fine cedar, which he found here, he then set his prisoners on ore, and bent his course to Lima, the capital of eru.,Having
Having landed fourteen men in.the haven of Q quinto, to bring off water, of which theyfoo in some heed, they were discovered by the tow which intrepidly sent out a body of three hundri horse and two hundred foot to attack them; befel whom they retreated with the loss of only one mil whom this-formidable army valiantly behead when they saw him fall, and the Indians stuck body full of arrows; however, the admiral ord a party of men next day on hore to bury him, whom in vain the Spaniards displayed a flag of tru as if-inviting them to a parley january the 22d, being in want of water, sO Indians on the coast offered to pilot them to aw tearing-place; and though the quantity was form as scarcely to be in the least serviceable to th Drake rewarded his conductors very liberally. a place called Terapara, whither they were lby the-fame occasion, they found a Spaniard ly asleep, whom they eased of eighteen bars of fiiv about four thousand ducats in value, which on'the.ground by him, and this they did with fu politeness, as not disturb his repose; and ali farther on, they seized eight Peruvian sheep, loaded with one hundred pound weight of pure ver in leathern bags, which they carried to th 'hips, restoring the beasts whom they had thus lived, to the Indian and the Spaniard who dusted them. The sheep of Peru'are about size of miles; their wool is superfine, andth! flesh wholesome; they are of prodigious service the Spaniards, carrying very heavy'burthen?, travelling in places where scarcely any other be could find a footing from hence they failed to a port called An where they took out three mali barks, the crl of which fearing no danger, were gone afth,1l
with fifty seven wedges of silver, weighing near lve hundred pounds. Not being firing enough attack the town, they put to sea, and .fell in with a small bark, in which was scarcely any thing at they wanted; so the admiral set her at liberty, being a rule with him not to injure, when it uldbe of no advantage to him or his people. February the I3th, they entered the harbour of ia, where lay a fleet of twelve (hips, with are any person left to guard them, the com anders and molt of the crews being on shore: tof these they took fonte silks, linens, and chest filled with rials of plate; then they turn out, in pursuit of the Cacafuego, a very rich ip, which they were informed had lately left that arbour, intending for Paita; which place they nd, on their arrival there, the had left, and was ne for Panama: however, they fell in with an er that richly atoned for their disappointment, e having on board eighty pounds weight of fine Id, besides a large golden crucifix, richly adorned with emeralds; all which they seized, together with e useful cordage, which was also a valuable ac edition. They now continued their chase of the Caca go, which was descried off Cape St. Francisco, e hundred and fifty leagues from Panama, about ree o'clock, by Mr.John Drake, on which account admiral presented him with the gold chain he self usually wore about his neck, being the ard he had promised to him who should first over her. About six o'clock they came up with, and board her, after having in three ]lots brought her en-mast by the board. He, cargo, they found thes valuable than it had been represented; it fisted of thirteen chests filled with rials of te, eighty pounds weight of gold, twenty six. VOL III F - tons
-tens of silver bars, and a large-quantities jewel besides many other rich corrmodities.,.Among many pieces of plate, were two prod pious large silver bowls gilt, belonging to the pile one of which the admiral, in a joking manne told him he-hoped he would allow him to keep; b way of remembrance, which the poor pilot cou not but comply with; and that he might.appeart do it with a good grace, he presented the other the admiral's fieward.,When they had thus lightened this vessel, they'll missed her, to pursue her course to Panama, having firs supplied the captain and his crew with line and other necessaries. A little while after this ex .plot, continuing their course fill westward, tbh came up with another ship laden with linen-clot silks, and superfine China vases, out of which thq took what pleated them hest, together with a fal con made of massy gold, in whole breast was set very valuable emerald; and keeping the pilot t affitl them, set her and her people at liberty this pilot brought-them into the haven. Guatuico, and in the town, he told them, wen but seventeen Spaniards; here the admiral an shame of his people went afore, and march directly to the court of judicature, in which ws the judge ready to pronounce sentence on tota negroes, who were accused of having conspired m burn the town; however without manifesting a3 reverence to the authority of the court, he cause both prisoners, judges, and auditors to be fez! and carried on board his own (hip; from when he compelled the judge to write a letter to tI townsmen, ordering them to keep aloof and pr mit the English to water in quiet; which was dot accordingly, and then the town searched for paul der, but none found, except one bullet of rial; Thomas Moon, one of the admiral's men, took fra Spanish
Spaniard, whom he flopped flying to the woods, gold chain and some valuable jewels, by way of nom. After this they put on shore their Spanish priors and a Portuguese pilot, whom they had ought from the Cape de Verd sands, and then t sail for Cannot; where they anchored on the 6th of March, in a fresh water river, and felt the rock of an earthquake, that then happened ere, though they were above a-mile diftdlt from ore. While they lay here, they had plenty of ater, wood, and fill; and with rome other things particularly useful, they supplied themselves out of this which was bound to the Philippine islands, d had, not suspecting an'enemy, put in here for freshmen. Now the admiral, justly imagining he had silently revenged upon the Spaniards, the wrongs country had sustained from them, as well as own private injuries, began to ponder on the t way of going home, wisely inferring that it uld be dangerous to return by the streights, as was a place very convenient for them to await coming with more force than he could be able rest, having but one ship left, and that, though ry rich, not over firing; the consequence of.this liberation was, his determining to go round to the moluccas, and follow the Portuguese course, past by the Cape of Good Hope. With this view, being at present becalmed, he d more to the northward in hope of a good nd; and from April the i6th to June the 3d, de but six hundred leagues: here he experienced excessive cold weather, and anchored in a , in forty three degrees north latitude, where cold wind, which blew with some violence, not permit him to say long; so that he was aged to sand out to sea till the x/th, when'he,F 2 arrived
.arrived at a good bay, which he entered with a si-favourable gale this land, partly out of honour to his native country, and partly on account of its white cliffs which are seen at a good distance at sea, the ad. moral called Nova Albion; and even at this tin though in the height of summer, it was found vce cold: this country has been since known butt( name of California, and is now subject to Spain.,The houses of the inhabitants, who were ea extremely pleated with the admiral's affable and il beryl behaviour, were built near the eater fid-and well fenced from the severity of the weather their fire is generally made in the very middle the house, round which the people lie ups rushes, with nothing else between them and ground. About the waifs of the women miss end a covering of bull-rushes manufactured . thing like hemp, and they have commonly ad Fin slung over their shoulders; but the men quite naked they sent the admiral a present of tome tiers and net-work calls, which he received politely, and in return gave them some toys, wh he imagined might be pleasing to them; after wh' intercourse, a larger body of them waited on h with another present, consisting of several curs feathers and Come bags of tobacco then one of them having, from the top o little hill, at the bottom of which the admiral pitched some tents, made a long harangue, whi Teemed addressed to him, he descended, accom need by a very numerous assembly, the members which, having first laid down their arms, paid o thence to the admiral, while the women remain above; and by several strange ceremonies, in whi they were enraged, such as tearing their hair howling like fires, it was inferred, as was inde the case, that they were at sacrifice,. 8 '~~~~~~I
01 ~~~~~~~ ir ~ ~ ~ ~ . K. ; ~~-Â·~~J L~~W ~ ~,I. * Ii.,,, IIJA)L~J~)-JA (~~~~~~~~
In the mean time the admiral ordered divine ser vice to be celebrated, with the decency and solemnity of which these people seemed not only surprized' but assisted. In some few days after, two persons, in the character of ambassadors, waited on the admiral, one' of whom made a speech for near half an hour to gather from whence it was underfoot that the king himself intended to pay him a visit, provided his majesty might, by some particular sign, be as, sured of a peaceful welcome. Which' request be ing readily granted, their king soon after made his appearance with a large train, which supported a. rude yet referable dignity, the common people shouting round him all the way.,The king, who was a well made man, of a noble aspect and majestic deportment, was pre ceded by a person of comely appearance, bearing a sceptre, to which were appended two crowns, made of net-work, curiously wrought with. sea tiers, and three chains of a bony substance, which are marks of honour, whereby some few people of merit are, in this country, distinguished ; he was surrounded by a guard of tail well-looking mens adorned with rabbit skins, of Which they have-here great plenty. Then followed the common people,. in a promiscuous crowd, some with their faces painted black, some white, and various other co lours, every one, nay even the children, bearing something by way of present. The admiral drew up all his men in military order, to receive them, and flood within the fences of his tent, at some distance from which this pro cession halted, and observed a profound silence;, then the sceptre-bearer, having made a speech of about half an hour's length, struck up a dance, and at the same time began a sort of song, in both which he was followed by' king, lords, and,F 3 commons,;
commons; after which gesticulation, the king him. fess made several speeches to the admiral, who now perceiving that they harboured no evil intentions, allowed them to enter within the bulwarks which he had cart up to pr,tec him from treachery.,It was at this interview that the king of ths country surrendered to Drake his dominions, with the unanimous content of his people, cuttings own crown upon his head, and investing him with other ensigns of royalty; all which Drake received, hoping this Surrender might one day turn out to the glory of his sovereign and the honour of Old England.,The rcfl)e with which these people treated the admiral's men was very surprizing; for they even ,snared them sacrifices, especially to the younger among them; nor was it without difficulty the were flopped in their profanation, and in some measure taught there was an Omnipotent, to whom alone there honours were due.,The admiral and some of his people penetrated a small way up the country, which they found well flocked with large deer, and such rabbits as I have before spoken of, whose skins serve for cloaths, and their flesh is excellent food; they are not larger than a Barbary rabbit, their feet like a mole's, their tail like a rat's, and they have a bag on one side of their .jaw, in which they preserve such provision as they cannot immediately devour, till a times necessity the Spaniards had never been upon this shore, nor had they made any discoveries to the south ward of it; ard before our admiral left it, cb erected a pillar with a plate thereto affixed, where. upon was engraved the queen's name and arms, together with the date of the year and day, in which the admiral, whose name was also inscribed, had arrived there and the free gift the king had,made
made of his crown and territories to the use of the' sovereign of England. Having stocked his ship-with provisions sufficient to subsist him a reasonable time, the admiral left this place on the 23d of July, the people lamenting: extremely his departure, and making fires on the highest hills, as was supposed, by way of sacrificer till the (hip was out of sight. Finding the cold increase, the wind grow more boisterous from the northward, and the fun going till farther off, and despairing finding-a passage through the northern seas, Tale wretched over for the Molucca islands; and on the i 3th of Osobet came up with the Ladrone, whence several ca. noes came off, bringing cocos, fruits, fish, and other sorts of provisions fell; tie people seemed at first inclined to deal very fairly, but when they became a little acquainted with thee sailors they stole every thing they could lay their hands on, nor was it possible to make them part with any thing they once laid hold ofi and on their repeating this usage, the English refused to dell with them,. hindering them from coming on board their sip, at which repulse they were so enraged, that they flung stones at the flip, which (he returned with one gun, that intimidated them sufficiently, for they leaped into the water for shelter and skulked under their canoes till the was gone to some distance from them, when nimbly recovering their veflTes, they hastened to the shore, not without looking often behind them. These people pare the lower parts of their ears round, and stretch them with weights confider ably upon their cheeks; their. teeth are as black as jet, and they all carry a certain herb and powder about them, which they are continually chewing, and this contributes to preserve them of that colours: one would imagine they designed their nails for de-,F 4 pensive
pensive weapons, letting them grow at least an ind long over their fingers. - Their canoes are generally made of-one large piece of timber, artfully hollowed, and ld smoothed, their prows and ferns curiously zetland ornamented with white shells, having a large piece of timber on each side with a great cane fattened t it, to hinder their being overset. .about the end of October the admiral past several islands, some of which appeared to i very populous, such as Taguladai Zeilon, &c. i the first of which is good cinnamon, and the inhl giants of most of them are friends to the Per tuguefe,,CHAP. II. Drake invited on swore by the king of.l'ernate, ubho visits him on Shipboard; they entertain each other ve magnificently: he receives a vf.it from a CliiRj traveller: an island enlightened by glow-uormr: land crabs described; his ]hip in danger of eitri les : he comes to anchor in the island of Barateii: the character and ingenuity of the inhabitants: hi;i well received y these kings of sava: the gee unanimity of the people of that island: a curia way to boil rice, and to cure the venereal dfiafe: he doubles the Cape of Good Hope: takes in waoi at Sierra Leona, and arrives at Plymouth. O N the 24th of November they found them. O selves off the Moluccas, and were prevented from going to Tore, as they had first intended by a viceroy from Ternate, who boldly caneo0 board to tell them that the king of that island would freely and cordially traffic with and befriend them, provided they went not to Tore, a place, w'hich,ci
account of the Portuguese who inhabited-it, he utterly hated, and could not possibly think of deal with any body that was concerned with them is intimation induced the admiralty alter his first solution, and determining to slay at Ternate, he; nt a velvet cloak by way of present to the king., with assurances that his intentions were entirely: enable; his design being only to procure prove is and fume other necessaries in exchange for merchandize. In answer to this message, the king replied he uld have whatsoever he flood in need of; and resented him'by a special messenger with his'owni get, and a solemn assurance that he was not only lady to serve him in every thing, but also to Tub this crown and kingdom to his command; and. at of his sovereign, signifying, at the same time., the himself intended to pay him a visit on flip hard As a prelude to this visit, appeared four large ca does with eighty rowers on each side, placed in hand re well-contrived galleries, within side of whom-4 ere a rank of seemingly well disciplined soldiers;. d within these, a row of servants all in white, ho attended uni some of the most dignified sons of the court; dressed in white lawn or.- llicoe, with whom the body of each vessel was led A canopy of thin perfumed mats covered: ch canoe from end to end, contrived to protect: from the heat of the fun, each man taking place der it according to his rank. These canoes were ell supplied with ammunition and warlike flores . e soldiers being armed with all sorts of weapons, th offensive and defensive. They rowed by the admiral in great-order, each; ing him reverence-in its turn, and then acquaint g him, that they were sent by.the king to conduct: Im into a safer road.,F 5- Soon:-
Soon after this parade, the king himself, a tall well. built man, made his appearance, attended by six per. songes stricken in years, of asper grave and refer. vet: the admiral made him several handsome pre. feats; he was infinitely delighted with the ships band of music, and at his departure he seemed greatly satisfied with the English manners, promis. ting to return again the day following, and in the mean time to send in such provisions as they might stand in need of: in this last particular he kept hi promise, for that very night they received a conti. durable quantity of hens, cloves, rice, liquid fugit plantains, and sago which melts in the mouth like sugar, but tare like a sour curd; though made ups cakes, it may be preserved for eight or ten years next morning the king sent his brother on board, to desire the admiral would dispense with, his gift that day, and come on shore himself, the meleager being by way of hostage to remain behind: but this invitation the admiral declined, sending how. ever some of his retinue along with the king's bro ther, and detaining the friendly viceroy as a pledge f their return. They were received on swore by another of tht king's brothers, and many of the chief nobility, who conducted them with. great solemnity to court where they found above a thousand persons as sembled to receive them; sixty of whom were the king's council, and made a very referable appear ance: there were alfo.four Turkish envoys, clothed in scarlet, whole business here was to settle terms of commerce between the courts of Constantinople and Ternate.,It was not long before the king made his entry with a locke robe of gold tissue hanging over his shoulders, golden rings fastened by way of orna ment up and down his hair, a chain of the same metal about his neck, and some valuable jewel',je1~
on his fingers. His legs were bare, and his shoes made of the best Cordova leather; he was guarded by twelve men with lances, the points inverted,; and over him was borne a canopy, very richly em broidered with gold: on the right-hand of the. chair in which he feated-himfelf, stood a page, who with a fan fixed on a staff three feet long, and fine y adorned with sapphires, allayed the heat arising som the throng of the people, and the fervour of. he fun. He received the admiral's envoys very respect. fully; and, having heard their message, replied very graciously ; then sent one of his council to conduct - hem back to the flip. The king of Ternate is a very powerful monarch,. having seventy islands, great and small in hisjurifa icon his religion, as well as that of his subjects, sMahometanifin. The admiral while he staid here, was visited by .gentleman well attended, and clothed after tha european fashion: he was of the blood-royal of hint; but banished on suspicion of some ,rimes. gainst the state, for a certain term of years; during' which term he intended to travel, hoping by-that means, to draw some advantage from his misfortunes He appeared to be a man of sound sense, . ad a strong judgment, a good memory, and, by, owing how properly to digest the various things which he had seen, proved an entertaining companion e was infinitely pleased with the admiral's saviour to him, and endeavoured to induce him touch at China, but in vain ; for, having com Sed that which first led him to undertake this! age, all his thoughts were now bent on homes Having fettled all affairs at Ternate, the admit set sail from thence on the 9th of November;.,on tile 14th of the same north, cameo ana yr in a little inland to the southward of Cele-,F 6 bc.:
bes this place they chore,. .because it was not only convenient, but 'uninhabited; here they set up forges for their iron work, in which they were ob. lived to burn charcoal, all their sea-coal having .been consumed. This sand is overgrown wit trees not unlike our broom; among which, in li night, there was such plenty of glow-worms, tha every twig looked as if it were studded with flies, here they also found very large bats, of a short bit exceeding swift flight; and land-crabs, of so .-extraordinary a size, that-one of them might easily satisfy the appetite of four hungry men: they aI good food, and excellent restoratives, and th, burrow in the ground like rabbits ,This place afforded every thing they could wis, except water, which they were forced to bring frog an island a little more to the southward: fit a say of twenty six days, they turned out wib an indian .'- ind; and being entangled arno fieri hinds, tey found it hard to recover t, mrt;c;th of hee Celebes: and here they were obliged b. the weird chopping abv ut, to change from a we. er:iv t a !o.;the;ly course, which had like to ba proved fatal to :rsm; for, on the 9th of Janus they ran upon a rock, where they stuck faste sixteen hours; when laing lightened, the veffdi eight pieces Ps or-dance, tree tons of cloves, a. f.-ne prov-fion, they were happily brought offal the gale sting in their fav-;r.,On the 3th of February, after having thusfl vere'y suffered by the winds and shoals, they ca to anchor in the island of Baratene, where te! found provisions of all sorts in great plenty; e- excellent spices. with lemons, oranges, cocos, pl pains, sago, and a fruit about the size of a bc? berry, which-boiled, becomes soft and agrees This sand produces also sulphur, copper, filii
d gold, which the natives are very expert at fa - signing in several different ways. They are far from being a disagreeable people. id their humanity,. benevolence, and integrity ren er them perfectly amiable; they are courteous to rangers, and trade with a punctuality and honesty. hat ought to put the tutored Christian to the blush; he men cover only their heads and privities, and. hat with linen, which is therefore a good corm oddity here: the women have a- garment reaching: rm the waist to the foot, and load their arms with eight or ten bracelets at a time, made of bone,. rays, or horn, weighing perhaps two ounces a- piece. Hence they came, on the 9th of March, in sight of Java Major, where they were honourably and affably entertained by. the five kings that: govern it, four of whom came at once on flip )hard, and often two or three at-a time; they are generous, unsuspecting, and communicative, freely. string to accommodate a stranger with a female. bed-fellow, living very merrily and sociably amongst themselves, and seemingly strangers to intestine jars or dissentions. They are armed with swords, targets, daggers, &c. which they temper very skilfully, and are fond of coloured cloaths, such as green, red, &c. They wear a roll or turban round the head, almost in the Turkish manner, and a stripe of coloured silk round the waist, which trails on the-ground. They put their rice into a perforated earthen vessel, of a conic form, open at the large end, and this is fixed in another vessel full of water, which is set over the fire; and but little water being able to penetrate through the holes, the rice swells to a firm 'consistency, of which they make several pleasant dishes, mixing it with butter, oil, spices, sugar, or Whatever else is most agreeable to their palate.,The
The venereal disease is very prevalent here, whit they cure by exposing the body for some hours in the scorching heat of the fun,. whereby the pores are opened, and the noxious particles discharged bya natural perspiration.,All the kings of this island live in perfect una. dimity-the admiral's behaviour seemed to gis them vast pleasure; they expressed great rapture at bearings music play, and supplied him with plan. ty. of whatever provisions he wanted; for therein return he gave them some rich silks, on which they set an inestimable value having cleared the hull of their flip from the barnacle-shells which she had gathered in her long voyage, and new payed her. bottom, they let sail, march the 26th, for the Cape of Good Hope, which they doubled on the i8th of June, so near that they might easily have made the land; and in this part of their voyage, the few obstructions which they met with easy convinced them that thePortu- guess had grossly misrepresented the passage, and the horror which they described attended it ,On the 22d of July they arrived at Sierra Leona, where they staid two days to water; and.were exceedingly refreshed with the lemons, and oysters, that grow upon trees, on which they feed and nul. tipsy ,August the 26th they were. off the Canaries, which they passed, being sufficiently flocked with necessaries, and continued their voyage to Ply. mouth, where they arrived safely on Monday Sep. temper 26th, 580, but on Sunday, by their own account, having lost one day in their reckoning, and been out two years, ten months and a few days.,CHAP.
C-H A P. 1". mn remarks' n Drake's voyage round the world queen Elizabeth dines on beard bis Flip, and knight him: a chair made out of its ruins: sir Francis. Drake sent with twenty-five Skips against the Spa niards ; plunders Vigo; makes an attempt on the ijlr of Ferro ; plunders St. Sags, and lurnsitHe country in return for the murder of Mr. Hawkins, &tc. fJcers to the Weft-Indies lases many men byficknfis . hi refreshes his crew at St. Christopher, andpro seeds to Dominica, which is ransomed, after being taken by sloth: he surprises Cartagena, burns several Spanish settlements; and having touched at, Virginia, arrives safely at Portsmouth, very richly' laden. His defeat of the Spaij/h Armada; in' which he makes fe of fir/hips. Slight review of his expedition to Portugal. Sir Francis Drake's lost voyage to the Weft-Indies; makes a descent at Rhode la Hacha, and burns Nombre de Dios: aÂ¢ fruitless expedition again Panama. Sir Francis dies, and is buried in the sea : sketch of his-.ha- rapier, and a description of his per/fn.,'E V E R was private subject more applauded' or repeated for his atchievements, than rake for this voyage ; and if discoveries' that tend o the improvement of commerce areas advantage ,. and'require the thanks of a trading nation, no an deserved. a. general eulogium better than he, ho gave England the glory of having produced a person that first sailed' round the world, whose va ur made the English feared, while his humanity ate them beloved; and his magnificence caused em to be revered and admired in every region with which he had any communication. His discovery and taking possession of the land which-he called New Albion, was an action of the greatelt,confe-
consequence to the British nation since it is in fu a situation, that the Spaniards, according to til owen principles, can never dispute the legality of o ~ght to it, if it were to be contested with them april 4th, ici, the queen was magnificently en. certaine by sir Francis Drake, on board his hiipt !cptford, at which time she honoured him with til dignity of knighthood ; and it was remarkable, tim tho' above two. hundred people fell into the Sham tait day, by the giving way.of a. bridge of plant laid from the shore to the flip for her majesty topaif over, not one of them was either hurt or drowned This flip was preserved as a very great curiosity Hertford many years ;but when quite decayed, ther was. a chair made from it, and sent as a.prefentto Oxford, where it is held in great elleem.,Anno 1585, an expedition was set on foot by the crown against the Spanish Weft-Indies, of which sir Francis Drake was made admiral, and common. der in chief both by sea and land, having with him twenty-five ships. They left Plymouth September i.zth.: and having plundered Vigo,. particularly the cathedral church, whence they took a prod. pious large silver cross, embodied and gilt, they continued their course to the island of Palma, where they intended to refresh themselves; but the entrance being dangerous, and some-ordnance conveniently placed to hurt their boats and pin. names, they gave over this attempt; and hoped to have had better success in the sand of Ferro, where under covert of a hill, they landed a thou. sand men j but these were commanded the ensuing day to. remark, on their meeting an English sail. or, who had been by some chance abandoned in this place, 'rom whom they learned, that it was o very barren, that even the inhabitants were half. itarved.,From thence they proceeded to St. Jago; ancien
n the I6th came to anchor off the town, which hey found entirely forsaken, and nothing left of any value, except wine, olives' and some provisions, which the inhabitants had not time to carry off; re he quartered his land-army for some days, ad on the 24th marched to St. Domingo, an in nd town of great note, whence the governor shop, and indeed all the inhabitants had fled to he mountains: here-they found but little plunder On the 26th the admiral remarked his forces, having first burnt the town of St. Jago nd ravaged and destroyed the country round about r the cruelty of the people to Mr. William hawkins of Plymouth, and his-men, whom they ad treacherously murdered five years before, after having entered into a treaty with them; as also, in return for their barbarity to a boy belonging to-the feet, who having frayed by chance from his .come des, fell into the hands of the Spaniards; and hey plucked out his heart, having first beheaded im,. then tore him limb from limb, and scattered e pieces as prey to the less wild inhabitants of the fart and the air. They now pursued their course to the Welt dies, and in the way lost a great number of their' en by a calenture which had crept in among them. eighteen days they reached the island of Domi ica, where they flocked themselves with water, save bread, and some tobacco, for which, in re rn, they gazette natives glass-toys, and colour d beads, payment to them very sufficient. These people are.of a treacherous disposition, and, bate he Spaniards. their Christmas they spent at St. Christopher, en uninhabited, where they cleansed the: hip, fd refreshed their sick; then steered their course for other St. Domingo, a rich city in Hispaniola, and ne of the moi considerable places on the coast swithin
within nine or ten miles of it they landed a body men that took ,it by form, the Spaniards at l ransoming it for twenty-five thousand ducats, har, ing let it lie in possession of the English abort month quitting St. Domingo, they set sail for Earth gena, an excellent well fortified harbour on t continent, which they took after a stout resistant and released for an hundred and ten thousand d cats. They designed to have gone to Nombre Dios, and thence over land to Panama; built sickness increasing among them, rendered that gr undertaking impracticable, and they were net stated to return home; in their way demolishing St. John, and burning two Spanish towns call St. Augustine and St. Helena, on the coast of F1 rida; after which adventures they touched at V ginia, and took on board an English colony, wil had been went thither the year before by sir W ter Raleigh, under the command of Mr. Lane; a these are said to be the first persons who introduce cet in England the use of tobacco, an article ih has added considerably to the revenue of throw They arrived at Portsmouth the 28th of July, 15r having been out something more than ten month the owners are said to have cleared forty though pounds by this voyage, and the meanest man in t fleet to have had six pounds prize-money; bell which, they got more than two hundred pieces brats cannon, and forty made of iron. 'they. by sickness and accidents eight captains, four lite tenants, eight gentlemen, and in all about ser hundred and fifty men altho' no more is required of us, nor indeed i our plan of this work have we promised more tha such voyages as were made by the most remarkable adventurers; yet we should think it an affront the curiosity of an intelligent reader, as well'as,p-i.
ice of injustice to his memory, who, had lie lived the days of Rome, had been raised to the rank of demi-god, not to give fore account of his defeat I the Spanish Armada fitted out for no less a purpose than the total destruction of the English action. In 1587, admiral Drake sailed to Cadiz, which e entered on the seth of April before fun rife-i nd took, before night, thirty eight sail of ships at lay there, and had been assisting to bring pro ions and necessaries for the Armada, twenty of em were Dutch, and among them were some of considerable burthen, most of which he burnt and strayed. Thence he steered to the river of Life where he did a good deal of damage also; d, in his return, seized a very rich prize called e St. Philip, which is said to be the firs Caracca ip brought into England. And this stroke con ibuted not a little to abate the courage of the spaniards, notwithstanding the incredible force they d on foot. The year following the queen appointed him e-admiral of the fleet defined to oppose the Spa Armada, which was commanded by the duke Medina Sidon, said to consist of some hundreds vessels, and to stand the king of Spain in thirty o thousand ducats per day. Never did Drake shew more Skill or more cou ethan in this engagement; in the very begin g of which he took two of the largest ships the Spanish fleet, one of them being the vice niral, and the other commanded by Don Pedro Valde, a Spanish nobleman, who made a gal t refinance; and when he surrendered, declared, was to the fortune of Drake he submitted, whose rage and generosity not his most inveterate foes Id deny; and that he and his crew were re vd to have fallen sword in hand, had they notes been
been opposed by him, whose enterprizes Mars Neptune seemed to conspire in promoting. plunder of this single flip was very great, she h wing on board fifty-five thousand golden ducats; a the vice-admiral repaid the Spaniard's polite with giving him the use of his own table and cab wherein. he was treated with the greatest rest and magnificence.,To give an exam detail of the particulars of sea-fight, would encroach on our design, and 'gross too much of our attention ; let it suffice hat we remark that this prodigious armament entirely destroyed, the commander of it, who w difficulty escaped, was disgraced and banished si Madrid; upwards of fourscore ships were ei taken, sunk, or burnt-numbers of them irr rally damaged; and thirteen thousand soldi among whom scarce a noble house in Spain reckoned a brother, a son, or a kinsman, were off.,On the other hand, the English lost but one vessel, and not many more than an hundred mn in this battle the admiral advised the use of fire-fl which proved of signal service; but I cannot upon me to affirm he was the original inventor them, as Some people have strenuously maintain [hall pass over, as foreign to our purpose, Francis's expedition to Portugal, in conjunction sir John Norris, for setting the crown of that king on Don Antonio's head; an attempt, the success which was but indifferent, owing rather to his league than himself: and hasten to his last voy which was in 1595, when being joined in cO mission with sir John Hawkins, he set sail from mouth, August 28th, having about two thousands hundred men in his fleet, which consisted of ii the queen's ships, and twenty other vessels; but expedition was in same measure retarded at
,the perverseness of sir John Hawkins, who-died St. John de Porto Rico, on the 12th of-novem' tr; and the same day, sir Nicholas Clifford, with bveral other gentlemen, were wounded as they sat supper with sir Francis, whose stool was shot m under him by the enemy's firing from the fort;. notwithstanding which they burnt five large Spa l ships laying in the harbour, ones them being ur thousand tons; and on the i.th,. the bodies of r John Hawkins and sir Nicholas Clifford, who led of the wounds he received on the 12th, were cried in the sea, with the usual ceremonies. They left Porto: Rico on the i6th, and on the d of December made a descent on Rio de la Hacha, town on the:cnitinent, which they found entire deserted; however, the Spaniards offered tenour thousand-ducats, in pearls; as-a ransom for ;but not keeping their words, rating their pearl tan immoderate price, and thus plainly manifest g they only wanted to trifle away time, the ad iras ordered the town to be set on fire; which was accordingly done; and they burnt several other owns along the coast, particularly Nombre de Dios, ringing off a good deal of pearl and other valu le treasure. On the 29th, sir Thomas Bankers ille, a lieutenant-general, was dispatched with seven hundred and fifty men to Panama, over land, a arch in which they suffered extremely, from the conveniency of the road, the ambuscades of the spaniards in the woods, whence several of the men ere killed, and the failure of necessaries, a pair f shoes selling for thirty shillings, and a small biscuit for ten shillings; at length they came to a narrow pass, so strongly fortified and so well defend d, that they were forced to retreat; having sus red severely in their progress, which had sufficiently paid them, could they have pursued it to anama,,January
January the 5th, they departed from this plan for the island of Escudo, where they tarried t the 23d, when having taken in their store of free water, and recruited their sick, they flood out for Portobello, of which they came in sight on the 28th, on which day sir Francis Drake died of a flux, aged fifty-five years, goethe inexpressible for. row not only of the fleet, but of every body who knew him and with him expired the very foulon this expedition; having no children himselfe left his fortune by will to a son of his brother Tho. mas Drake.,His body was put into a leaden coffin, and lower. ed into the water with all naval honours, under general discharge of the whole fleet's cannon, while the trumpets kept time with the most melancholy notes. The command-os the fleet, on his decease, devolved upon sir Thomas Baskerville, who ime. lately gave orders for sailing homewards. In his passage he fell in with a Spanish fleet of twenty sail, whom he engaged for three hours with little no advantage on either side, and arrived at Plymouth in April, 1586.,Few men had more address than sir Francis Drake, who was an honour to the British name; he was naturally eloquent, clearing hisexprelion, and grace ful in his delivery: his knowledge in every fcicncere- quite to the marine, even in surgery, was extensive he was feared and repeated by his enemies, whom he always treated with tenderness and humanity: beloved and caressed by his owners, to whom he behaved with justice and integrity; and honoured and esteemed by his sovereign, whom he serve with courage and fidelity. He was resolute and alive; patient in hearing advice; judicious in c- meeting it; easy of access; fond of the soldiery liberal compromises; unshaken in his friendship; and-irreconcilable in enmity, but open to the grossel,adulationl
mutation. In a word, he was a man who never let private views get the better of his public (spirit; id as in life he was generally beloved, in death he as universally regretted. He was low in feature, 'but well made; his hair git brown; his complexion florid; his eyes brisk nd large, and his countenance open and engaging, promising from appearance a much longer life: and is certain, that the disappointments he met with a this last voyage, which he imagined in some measure stained his glory, sat heavy on his swelling part, and contributed to shorten his days.,The
Ss WA L T YIiR RA,,LEIGHW 1 .
he LIFE and Various V O Y A G ES of Sir WAL TE R RALE I GH, and of several A'D V E N T U R Er s under his Direction ,C H A P. I. ir Walter's birth and character : engages ;n an ex petition for making new discoveries in the Iwtef Indes: Virginia sirs discovered: fine account of the people: sir Richard Greenville deputed to make a settlement there; but the people of it are assailed by te Indians, inwrought off by/ir Francis Drake.,HIS brave adventurer, as much admired for his abilities, as lamented for his mis fortunes, was-born anno 1552, at Bud in Devonshire, a village near the sea; he was e second son which John Raleigh of Fardel Esq; ad by his third wife; and was for some time a miner of Oriel college Oxford, whence he went to serve in the Huguenot army, under the rat Coligny, against the French king: in which petition he acquired very great reputation, both prudence and valour. We afterwards find in engaged as a volunteer against the Spaniards Flanders, along with the prince of Orange; d in the year 158o he bore a captain's commis on in the service of the crown against the rebels Ireland; and he was one of the judges who resided at the condemnation of sir James Def nd, whose quarters were hung over the gates of city of Cork. VOL, II. G In
In 1581 he was joined in commission with William Morgan fnd captain Piers, as one of governors of Munster a little before which ti the earl of Ormond, Mr. Walter Raleigh, and-other gentlemen in the army of the loyalists, longed any four of the Irish rebels to single 'bat; but their invitation was not accepted when the troubles in Ireland were a little ed, by the Seduction of the earl of Desmond, a the submission of David lord Barry of Barry.co he quitted his command in that kingdom, and turned to England, where a piece of gallantry recommended him to the notice of queen Eliza for, meeting her by chance in a place that was very clean, he spread his plush cloke on the gro for her to pass over: nor did her majesty forget politeness. In answer to his having written his diamond ring, on a pane of glass at court line," Fain would I climb; yet fear I to fall." She is said to have placed underneath it,,"' If thy heart fail thee, climb not at all." Raleigh was a man formed to thrive in the mate of a court, being handsome and well p portioned, of an agreeable aspect and winning dress; he was malter of a ready wit and ftr judgment; elegant in discourse, and forcible his argument, which he manifested in a disputes tween him and lord Grey, who had been dep of ireland. before the privy-council; in which acquitted Itself so well, that he was ever a highly ef-emred at court. It was no despair iifiino at land that turned his view to try history bj fra, but the natural impulse of his inquit
had, which was encouraged by the accounts he d read of the successes of the Spanish adventurers America; whence he very justly inferred, many i grass of land remained still unknown, which git prove of considerable advantage to whoever ould discover them. In the year 1583, he sailed from Plymouth on hard a flip of two hundred tons, which he had itt himself, with three other vessels intended for newfoundland, under command of sir Humphrey gilbert, to whom;Rihe was nearly related; but red from them, and returned in a very few days port, on account of an infectious disorder that fled his crew. In the beginning of the year I584, upon proper presentations to the privy council, of the probity there was of discovering new lands in Amen hitherto unknown which might prove of ual service to the crown, as Peru and Mexico ere to Spain; the queen granted, by her let rs patent, bearing date the same year, to Wal Raleigh esq; and his heirs, " A right to discover and possess all such countries and lands as were not yet under subjeCtion to any Christian prince, or inhabited by Christian people, with a deserve to the crown of one fifth of all the gold and silver ore which Should be found in any of the said countries." In consequence of this grant, two barks, one commanded by Philip Midas, the other by Arthur allow, were fitted out on a Weft-Indian expedition They left England on the z7th of April i ne the both they fell in with the American islands; ad on the 4th of July descried, as they thought, he continent: about two days before which, they und the air molt delightfully scented. On the 4th of the same month they anchored in a plea at river, having sailed upwards of forty miles 2 along
thong the coasts and here landing, theyltodk pi session of the place in the queen's 'name, for the i of the proprietors: however, this proved to be island called Wokokeli, only twenty miles o1 and six miles broad; the soil was very'good, pr during delicious grapes, plenty of cedars, pin cypress and mastic, and weil .locked' 'with fowls all sorts; also deer, hares, rabbits, &c.,On the third day, one of the' natives preached them in a canoe, who seemed not at shy of them, but was 'eafily'induced to come board, where they gave 'hiss some cloaths, a entertained him with meat and wine: he seem very much pleated with this usage ;' and goi away in his boat, loaded it with fish, wherewith returned in about half an hour, dividing his c go into two parts, and giving one to each (hip.,The natives from the continent,'after this occ hence; came frequently down to traffic with the exchanging Skins, coral, and pearl for some tin-vefli and toys of scarcely any value. They were one visited by the king's brother, attended by a train upwards of forty men, to whom they made five presents; but he prized nothing that he saw much as a pewter dish, which he hung round neck, to serve him as a shield against his enemy arrows; in exchange for 'it he gave twenty ds skin she came to see them several times after,: brought his wife with him; (he appeared to b very modest woman, and was not ugly; (he wor mantle of deer-skin lined with fur, and an ap of the same nature : he had a band of white c on her forehead, and from her ears hung 1l bracelets of pearls, some of them as large as pea she afterwards entertained the flip's company well on (hore.,A'
St So 79 78 77 76 73 74,IPEÂ§~X S I. LVAXI- Pbid]-V,- ~ ~ ~ ~-Rt Lal-B,L maa~iareylhkr Be~~~~avene~ o; Cape~kh.*pcna,ICJS ape Charles cl 3 7 Ah N,0 R- T. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ RIN,mkeIndet 61 :80 79 o 78-77 76 75
copper plate affixed to the forehead seemed - e a mark of eminent distinction amongst them; the prince's attendants being ornamented with. h a badge: and i.t was observed, that none else f traffic, or examine anygoods who were with it, till the prince had taken that he liked, r which every man was at liberty to do as he aught proper. hey were very fond of defensive weapons, and; uld have given any money for knives, hatchets, axes, &c. with which it was thought most ad able not to furnish them: and one of the sailors. fed a large box of pearls offered for a sword. he name of this country was Wingandacoa ; king was, called.Wingina; and his place of re nee was reckoned six days journey upon the con Dnt : however, 'they made no discoveries beyond coast, but returned to England's September, well satisfied. with what they had seen, and aught two of the natives with them to learn Eng- heir character of the place was so very pleasing the queen gave it the name of Virginia, offer ;all imaginable encouragement to Mr. Raleigh pursue the discovery of it; and an aft of partial was soon after passed, confirming the patent. climate, according to captain Barlow, was operate, the air wholesome, and the soil fertile, using every thing neceflary'for human life: it under with game of all sorts; and, the honesty he natives seemed to point it out as the happiest in the universe. he following year sir Richard Greenville, who been concerned with Mr. Raleigh in the form voyage, encouraged by the success of it, fitted seven vessels, well stored with provision and' unction, taking the principal command on Self, and determining to make.a.fettlemnent at,, G 3 Virginia;;
Virginia; nor was Mr. Raleigh, who had been late. ly knighted, displeased at having so able a deputy the names of thesis were the tyger, of an hun. died and forty tons; the roe-buck, of one hundred and forty tons; the lion, of an hundred tons bur. then; the Elizabeth of fifty tons; a small 'bark call. ed the Dorothy, and two pinnaces. Among other remarkable persons who were on board this fleet and were afterwards promoted in the royal navy, were Mr. Ralph Lane, Mr. Thomas Cavendish Mr. John Arundel, Mr. Surely, Mr. Premise, lMr Vincent, Mr. Heriot, and Mr. John Clark: and with these sir Richard Greenville left Plymouth on ths 9th of April.,On the 7th of May he came up with Dominick and landed at Port Rico, where he built a pi. name, and erected a sort; and having seized two very rich ships, in one of which were several passe. gers, whose ransom amounted to a large sum. and done the Spaniards considerable damage otherway, he afterwards steered for Isabella, a town in ti island of Hispaniola, where he was for feme time allowed to trade, rather for fear of the mifchid he might do, were that liberty refused him, tim thro' eteem.,From hence he proceeded to the coast of l1 rida, where he was in some danger off Cas Fear; however, he came to anchor at the illa-of Wooden on the 26th of June, and here lost his flip: however, crossing over to them continent, Sir Richard was received very courteous by the natives, particularly by the king's broths and this kind reception he and his people in so measure owed to the Indians, whom we mention to have been carried to England by the former s venturers, and were now brought back the accounts we have of this voyage are couch in very general terms ; but it seems, they found,appag
appearance of a settlement here so very promising, hat they left an hundred and eight men under the are of Mr. Ralph Lane, and captain Philip Amy as, with every thing necessary for that end, to establish a colony, and then boiled sail for England taking in their road a Spanish (hip of three hundred tons burthen, valued at fifty thousand. tunis, with which they arrived safely at Plymouth )sober 8th, 585, and sold off their cargoes, con lifting of skins, fur, and pearl, to special advantage When Sir Richard was gone, the people that e left behind him fettled in an island called Rain oak, where every thing thrived with them very well; the soil being very kindly, and some pease andbeans that they had planted shooting up admirably and now turning their views upon inland discoveries, they penetrated upwards of eighty miles tothefouthward of Rannoak, and an hundred and thirty to the northward; but, reposing too much confidence in the Indians, they lost several of their men, who fraying perhaps but a little distance from the main body, were surprised and cut off. And when once there people had done them one injury openly, they became their implacable enemies, and took every opportunity of hurting them: this con dust indeed some of them confessed they believed to be absolutely necessary, not supposing the English could forgive an insult on any account; an inference which they drew from their own disposition: for, though they appeared to be simple, honest, and void of dissimulation, they were treacherous, de signing, and insatiably revengeful: betides, they did not like that the English should go so far up the country; and they had set a scheme on foot for destroying them all, which was happily discovered and prevented.,G + The
The setting in of winter abridged their farther progress; and neither understanding the nature's the climate, laying in a flock of provisions, nor he. ing upon good terms with the natives, they were reduced to very great extremities; being in want of every necessary, and in perpetual fear of the natives, who seemed intent, on seizing any oppor. unity to destroy them. In this condition, Sir Francis Drake found and supplied them with vi&u. als, ammunition, men, and every thing necessary to forward their enterprize, besides a bark of which they flood in much need; for Sir Richard Green. ville, tho' he had left captain Amydas among them with the title of admiral, seemed to have forgotten for what end, not having afforded them a flip any sort the colony began again to have some hopes o flourishing, when a violent storm arose which dis concerted all their scheme again, driving the IhiPi on board which were some of the chief advent. turners to sea, so that they were obliged to retui home this accident so dispirited those that remained behind, that they unanimously petitioned Drake take them on board, with which request he con. plied. and accordingly left the coast with them 0o the 18th of June, and landed them at Portsmouth July the 27th, 1586, being in number one hundred and three men; according to which account, they must have lost but five hands, which small lofsii inconsistent with what they have related themfelda of their distresses; but I am apt to believe into have been much more considerable, nor am I sint gular in my opinion, many persons who.halt written concerning this voyage confirming the con' jecture.,C HAP.
C H A P. IL Sir Ri hard Greenville's second voyage to Virginia ;; be settles another colony, with orders ta build a sort,. but the men are cut off by the natives .: Mr. yoha Finite builds Raleigh's town, and-goes for succour to England; tosses his people at his'return, and. sits sail for. England. Sir Walter's expedition to the Azores. IN a very fhort'time after their departure, afliip.,arrived upon the coast, fitted out by Sir Walter for the relief of the colony, stocked with provisions ammunition; recruits, and all manner of ne necessaries; which, finding the place. abandoned,. after a short slay, returned home. In about a fortnight after their departure, Sin Richard Greenville. arrived there a second time with three ships, all well provided, for the encouragement of the colony, which to his'great grief resound de served; however, this did not deter him fromendea*,. vouringto make another settlement, wherefore he left, fifteen men behind him with instructions to ere a. sort, furnishing them with all manner of necessaries for the term. of two years, and giving them the: strongest assurances of constant affiance; but they, twere all surprized and murdered: by. the natives,, and their fort destroyed this account of them was given by Marrteoi. one of the Indians whom we mentioned to have: been in England and brought back again,; a mans who proved faithful to the English interest alli along, and was very serviceable to a small fleet of three Ships, which arrived at Rannoak-on the 22d of' June, 1587, having on board 'large quantity of' supplies, and one Mr. John White, romanos' cou rage and resolution, on whom Sir.Walter:entirelyr,G 5i relied;,
relied, having given him the title and commission of governor of Virginia.,This man immediately set about erecting new habitations upon the very spot where the old ones had flood, for which I suppose he had very co. gent reasons, as in so doing he acted contrary to his instructions; he also selected eleven of hi ablest people, whom he formed into a body fora council, calling them the governor and court of assistants of Raleigh's town, in honour of his em,. player; and by his conduct, there was room to expect that the time was at length come, in which the discovery of this country might turn to the ad. vantage of the undertakers, and conduce to in. create the commerce of England.,The governor's vigilance and industry soon ren. tered him formidable to the natives, who courted his friendship, and made treaties with him ; which they scruples not to break, when they thought they had the leash advantage, and were so ives troublesome, that nothing could have held out against them, but the molt extraordinary refolu. tion. On the 13th of August, Mantel acknow. hedging himself a Christian, was baptized, and created by the governor lord of Daffamonpeak, neighbouring nation of Indians; this title was con ferret on him in consideration of the services had done the English.,Mrs. Dare, the governor's daughter, was brought to bed of a female child, on the j8th of the fan month, which was baptized by the name of Vir ginia, out of respect to the country in which le was born; and this was the first child born of Christian parents on the English settlements Virginia.,This affair of the colony seemed now to be in very thriving way, when governor White was un. aimolfiy selected as the properest person to set outer [
for England, to sollicit supplies of men, prove sons,. c. In pursuance of the general request he undertook the voyage, and after a very dan serous passage, arrived safely in Cornwall, ia he month of November, I587: he found it very hard to succeed in his commission, on account of he consternation into which the nation was flung y the reports of the Spanish armada which had so long threatened the destruction of England; however, at laIt he was furnished with three ships properly equipped, with which he set out, and arrived at Kannoak after a prosperous voyage ; but here he had the mortification to find his people: removed; and by the word Cretan being en graved on one of the pallisadoes of the fort, he;, riot without reason, inferred they might have re moved to an island of that name, about twenty leagues to the southward of Rannoak. This circumstance determined him to fleer for that place, and to that intent they all remarked, but a. violent tempest rising, drove them from their an chorus, separated the ships, and forced them out to sea; so that they reached home in a much worse con edition than when they went out; and this last blow seemed to have destroyed all thoughts of an expedition from which at first was expeted.prodigb- vous wealth. The disorders of the latter end of the queen's reign, and the vast expence which Sir Walter himself had been at in endeavouring to fix a colony upon this land, without any benefit or advantage contributed to the neglect in which it was for some time after held; besides, as he had thrown the care of it into the hands of a company's merchant adventurers, having incorporated them-by letters patent, and granted them fuch'immunities, as made it plain he had the interest of the trade of his country more at heart, than any private emblu-,G. 6 ment,
ment; he justly imagined that they ought to have paid more respect .to so profitable a charge; and their indolence, while it piqued his pride, pro. yoked his resentment, so that he gave up all far ther thoughts of Virginians ought to have premised some account of an expedition concerted by Sir Walter Raleigh against the Azores, before he gave up all thoughts of Vir. ginia.,But as it would have broken the thread of our narration, we flatter ourselves, an abstract of it i this place will not be disagreeableness the loth of June 1586, Sir Walter sent two pinnaces, the Mary Spark of fifty tons bur. then, commanded by John Evesham, and the Ser. pent of thirty-five tons, Jacob Hidden con. mander, to cruize against the Spaniards of the Azores. In their course, they took a small vessel laden with smack and other rich commodities, having several passengers of note on board, whose ransom came high; amongst them was portuguese gentleman who had been governor of St. Michael. Soon after this acquisition, as they cruised off the island of Gracious, in sight of Terra, they espied a Spanish flip, and hoisting a white flag, bore down on her; but when they came within shot, they lowered. their Spanish and hoisted English colours, giving her a broad-side, so that the was foot forced to surrender, having first thrown her in, directions, letters, and a map of the freights of Magellan, into the sea. In this vessel they made prisoner Don Pedro de Sarmiento, who had been governor of the freights of Magellan, and was reckoned one of the best sailors in all Spain; this gentleman was afterwards introduced to queen Elizabeth, and contracted a strict intimacy with ir Walter Raleith,,I - Ths?
They next seized a vessel laden with fish, bound to Cape Blancoo, and the following day, one of their boats with only nine men brought off a vessel from under the protection of a sort in the island, of Gracious; though there were numbers of men furnished with fire arms, who saw this transaction, from the shore, and made no Thew of-resistance, except by throwing stones; so that they had not a. single man either killed or wounded. In their return home, they fell in with a very rich fleet of Spanifh merchantmen laden with gold, silver and spices, with which they maintained a. running fight of thirty-two hours, harassing them. terribly, norwould they have declined the engage ment without being paid handsomely for their-trout able, had they not wasted all their powder; a circumstance which obliged them to Sheer off, and they; made the befRof their way to Plymouth; where they found their captures put in but few hours before them; and with there, after some little rest, they; steered for Southampton, where they were met by their honourable owner, who immediately ordered every man his proper dividend of the cargoes, which consisted of elephants teeth, Brasil woods sugar, hides, beeswax and other valuable commo cities, over and above which he. rewarded them very liberally.,CHAP.
C A P. III. Sir Walter goes upon another expedition to the WFf,Indies, but is recalled, and bis authority devolve upon Sir Martin Robber and Sir than Burgh Sir Walter in danger of being oft : several valu. able prizes are taken and brought into England, fens doubts respecting our hera. N the beginning of the year 1592, Sir Walter Raleigh meditated another cruize again the Spaniards in the Weft-Indies, and particularly de. signed to have made a descent upon Panama, as. fumbling thirteen ships well provided with men, provisions and ammunition of all forts-to which the-queen added two ships of her own, and gave him. the title and authority of general of the for. ces upon that expedition; a ditfin&ion, I think, that 'contradicts what Sir William Jonson, in his naval tracts, would insinuate; for he attributes Sir Walter's going upon. this voyage to his losing the queen's favour, though he don't mention the cause of his disgrace this fleet was kept in the harbour by contrary winds, upwards of three months, before which time the Spaniards having received sufficient intel licence concerning their destination, had taken all possible measures to frustrate their intentions. However, they put to sea on the 6th of May, and on the 7th of the same month they were over taken by the Disdain, a pinnace belonging to the lord high admiral, having on board Sir Martin Frobisher with the queen's letter to Sir Walter, revoking his command, and ordering him to fur render his commission, and the condé, of this es petition, to Sir John Burgh and the bearer.,HIowever,
However, Sir Walter thinking his honour too deeply engaged to retire, determined to continue in the fleet, although Mr: Nevil Davies, whom he met at sea, in a (hip belonging to Mr. Gordon governor of Calais, assured him that the Spaniards were every where on rearguard against them; and that there was no chance of meeting any prizes at sea, the king of Spain having sent or ders to all his American ports, that no vessel should' tir out, nor any treasure be shipped that year. But neither this intelligence could discourage him, nor a terrible tempest that overtook him on the I I th,- which scattered the feet, and carried away the long boats Sir Walter himself being in great danger on board the Garland, which was one of the queen's ships. Altho' Sir Walter saw plainly that pursuing his first scheme would be ineffectual, besides that his provisions began to run Short, he was determined not to return home without doing Something; therefore he divided his fleet into two squadrons, one under the command of Sir Martin Frobisher to lie off the coast of Spain, and keep the Spaniards in awe, while the other commanded by Sir John Burgh was ordered to cruize off the Azores, and try to pick up some of the Caracca lips; this disposition had the desired effect, for the news of an English fleet being off their southern coast, made them bend all their views to the protection of it, while the Caracas were left open to the attempts of Sir John Burgh, of whose design they seemed to have received no intelligence. Before the squadrons separated, they sent home a prize of six hundred tons laden with iron work of all sorts, valued at near seven thousand pound; and soon after Sir John took a fly-boat to the southward of the rock of Lisbon by the crew of which he,was
was informed, that there *ras a formidable fleet assembled at Cadiz and St. Lucar, which had or. ders to pursue Raleigh's fleet to the Weft-Indies, or by whatever course he (hould take; Sir John had like to have fallen in with them (shortly. after, but he got dexterously out of their track, being a better sailor, and pursued his voyage to the Azores, where he took some fall craft, that were but of little advantage june the 21 f, he arrived off the Flores; and having hung out a white flag, was supplied with such necessaries he stood most in need of, by the inhabitants of small town called Santa CruZ, Here he was joined by three ships belonging to the earl of Cumberland, and chaced a large carrack, who run herself on (lore, and her crew having taken out what they could of her cargo, set her oa fire; however, a body of one hundred men landing from the ships, saved many valuable ar. tides from the flame sat this place, having. received an. account of three other Caracca ships bound the same way, in about fifteen days, Sir John ordered his vessels to spread themselves from north to south, each two leagues from the other, by which disposition they commanded a view of too degrees; and in that situation, cruised about seven leagues to the westward of Flores, till the 3d of Augurs, waiting for the Caracas; when one of them was dis. covered of prodigious bulk, by captain Thomson, who bore down, and attacked her, but sustained great damage, and was forced to (leer off, as was also Sir John himself, who attacked her with great bravery, but received a shot between wind and water, which made him afraid of finking; then Sir Robert Cross getting under her tern, raked her fore and aft, and sought her singly three hours; till he was at length supported by the,earl
earl of Cumberland's (hips, which seconded him with such spirit, that they soon boarded her, Sir Robert Cross being the first man that entered her deck; and in a (short time she struck. This Flip was brought safely into Dartmouth on the 7th day of September; the was called the Madre de Dios, of sixteen hundred tons burthen, carried thirty two brass cannon, and six hundred men; from flem to fiery The measured one hundred and sixty. five feet, was forty-seven feet broad, and had seven decks. Her lading confined of spices, drugs, silks, carpets, callicoes, pearls, musk, civet, ambergrease, china, ivory, and many other valuable commodities; which Sir Walter himself, and Sir John Hawkins valued at five hundred thousand pounds, tho' they produced, upon sale not more than one hundred and fifty thousand pound; but the reason of this was very evident; for the sailors, officers, and soldiers had confiscated to their own use, and secreted several caskets of jewels and other rich goods, in such quantities, that. the drew five feet less water when brought into England,. than when she had been freighted in the Eafl-In- dies; nay, Camden tells us that neither order, oath, nor proclamation could prevent the people from this embezzlement, for they loudly declared, they had rather trust their souls to God, than their fortunes to men. And indeed they had-some colour excuse for this conduct, for even in those days, 'the dividends of prize money were not made with the greatest exactness; especially if the queen was any way concerned; for then by virtue of her royal authority, the made the adventurers submit to accept what portions she pleased to allot them ; and those were not over satisfactory, which Mr. Edward in his Naval History assures us was the case on the sale and division of the Madre de Dios, or Mother of God.,Though
Though it is not expressly said in the accounts of Sir Walter's life, at what time he left the fleet, yet we have some reason to think he did so, when he saw that nothing of any great importance could be done; as we don't find any personal mention of him in the engagement with the Car. rack; and Edward affirms that he came home, in. mediately after the storm of the x th of May, having first given order for dividing the fleet, as we before observers H A P. IV. Sir Walter intrigues with a maid of honours wsa,he marries; nevertheless he is disgraced; and banished fran court: resolves on a voyage for dis. veering the Guiana cost :n account of its situs tion : forms a Spanish settlement; takes the governor prisoner and sets five Indian kings, whom n kept in chains, at liberty: Raleigh harangues with Indian chiefs; and resolves to proceed. IR Walter, while these voyages were pursuing, was generally. held in great esteem at court, where contracting too close an intimacy with miss Elizabeth, daughter to Sir Nicholas Throgmor. ton, and one of the queen's maids of honour, the effects of which appeared in that lady's pregnancy; he fell under his sovereign's displeasure, and was confined for several months, nor did he obtain his liberty but on condition of retiring from court, though he made the necessary atonement by taking her to wife while this cloud hung over his good fortune, he determined on a voyage for discovering such part of the coast of Guiana as remained hitherto un known; being assured by all accounts, that fettling a colony of his countrymen on this valuable ternr,torff
tory, would be a balance against the additional power annexed to the crown of Spain by the re tuition of Peru and Mexico; whose riches were generally supposed to be equalled; if not excelled by this, as-yet, unconquered trap. Guiana lies to the eastward of Peru, directly under the equinoctial, and the reports concerning its wealth are very surprizing. Guevara, in his history of the Indies, mentions the principal city of it, called Mania, as a place of vast magnificence ; every vessel in the palace of the emperor was of gold or silver; nay his chairs and tables were of these metals, and besides be protested innumerable almost unheard of curiosities, the most valuable in the world. Gold dust was also. reported to be so plenty there, that the natives, at certain solemn festivals resembling the Roman Bacchanalia, ufed:to. spindle it over their naked bodies, first rubbing them' with a glutinous balsam to which it might adhere. Five Ships were fitted out for this expedition; however, Sir Walter set sail only with one bark, betides the vessel in which he was himself and the others were ordered to join him off the Ca varies. On the 6th of February, 1595, he left Ply mouth, and came to anchor at Point Curiapan, called by the Spaniards Punta de Gallo, in the island of Trinidad, on the 22d of March; whence he in a few days removed to Puerto de los Efpan- notes, something more to the north-east. Here was a Spanish settlement, and a city newly built, Called St. Joseph, and governed by Don Antonio de Berreo, a man of courage and resolution, but cruel and illiterate, very unfit to prosecute discoveries as scarcely knowing the east from the west; and gaining less intelligence, concerning the country and its products in eleven years, with the loss of above a thousand men and thirty thousand du cats, than Raleigh did in a few days with a handfuls
of men. It was with this person captain Whit. don had some traffic the year before, when sent by Sir Walter to examine the coast; and by his means eight of his men were treacherously cut off, and himself was otherwise fraudulently dealt with having coasted along three parts of the island, and made draughts of the different posts and re. markable places as he failed, he determined tope. nitrate up the country, but resolved first to attack and destroy the Spanish settlement, as not thinking it at any rate advisable to leave such powerful enemies at his back; whom he knew to be intention his definition, and whose cruelty had procured them the general hatred of the Indians.; besides, by (hewing himself an enemy io Spain, Sir Walter hoped not only to acquire the esteem of the na. times, but also to secure his progress in the country which while it served to revenge him on the Spaniards for their ill usage of captain Hidden's men, would add to his profit and the advantage of his people.,He accordingly made his attack towards evening upon the settlements captain Calfield surprizing the advanced guard with. sixty men, while he himself marched forward with forty more towards the town, which surrendered without any great resist ance; the governor Don Antonio Berreo and many other Spanifh officers being made prisoners, to whom he behaved with the greatest humanity and politeness; and from their intelligence collected many hints that were of great use to him in hit future progression. He also set at liberty many In tian captives, among whom were five petty kings, who were linked together in one chain, and con fined in a place where they were almost starved to death; having besides undergone very severe torments,
ments, such as being baited with fat bacon, and a thousand other inconceivable cruelties. The same day arrived to Sir Walter's affiance, captain George Gifford, in the Lion's Whelp,'a Ship belonging to the lord admiral:Howard, who with Sir Robert Cecil was deeply concerned ia this expedition ; and captain Reyrnis in a Galego ; who were a very welcome sight, as they had on board many gentlemen and soldiers, together with some useful supplies. Sir Walter, before he pro needed farther on his discovery; in order to make the Indians his friends .as much as possible, sum money an assembly of their chiefs, particularly those who were foes to the Spaniards, and there were few among them-ho were not; whom,: by means of his Indian interpreter he harangued, telling them, " He belonged to a virgin queen who was the most powerful cacique or love. " reign in the north, having more caciques sub " servient to her than they could count trees ia " Trinidad; that she was the patroness of liber " ty, and a foe to the Castella, (so the Indians call the Spaniards in many places) " on account " of their barbarity and oppression; and the hav " ing relieved the northern parts of the world " from their servitude, had extended her clem mercy to the coast of Guiana, by sending him " to free it from their tyranny, and secure it from " their future invasion." He then produced the queen's picture, which they admired extremely; and very little pains had been requite to make them pay it divine-honours. By such sort of ad dresses here and in other parts in his passage to Guiana, he made the people familiar with the queen's name and virtues, while he bound them Strongly to his friendship raleigh now prepared to go forward towards Guiana; tho' Berreo used every argument he could,think
think on to dissuade him from it, and the fequde proved he was sincere in his advice. He in vain Strove to persuade him, that it was a territory some hundreds of miles farther than had been repre. seated to him ; that the way was long and tedious, Strewed with very dangerous Shallows, over which it was impossible to pass but in very' small light boats; that he could not carry half enough of provisions with him, and need expect no succour from the natives, who would not admit of a parly, but burn their towns and retire before him to their fastnesses; asylums accessible only to them. selves, their kings and chiefs having enjoined them not to barter gold, nor hold any communi. cation with Christians, as it would prove their de. '1rucion; besides, winter was approaching fast, and he would find vast inconveniency from the rains and swelling of the rivers.,Notwithilandingthefe demon trances, Raleighwas bent on making a push; and ordered his vice admiral Gifford and captain Calfield to endeavour, at the highest flood, forcing over the shoal to the east ward of the river Capuri's mouth; which they attempted, but, in spite of all their (kill, the wa ter fell before they could do it; the mailer of the Lion's Whelp was sent to try if a small (hip could enter at Amant, tut he found the bottom here the same with the rest; and John Douglas, who went likewise on the same search, discovered four open and promising entrances, the bays leading to which were barred up with shoals in the same mann erin the mean time Raleigh kept up his people's spirits as well as he could, by giving them all manner of encouragement, and appearing very chearful; and his carpenter having cut down an old Galego boar, with banks for oars, of onih five feet draught, he embarked on board her 'Wth,sixty
sixty of his people; and was followed by Gifford's wherry with twenty, Calfield's with ten, and a barge of his own with ten more; with which they went forward, having above twenty miles of a very boisterous sea to pass in the beginning; and being forced by the wind into the bay of Grandpa, where they were annoyed by the poisoned arrows of the natives, who are very voracious cannibals, and from thence they found a passage into Ene of the rivers, of which Douglas had brought intel ligence.,CHAP. V. They se' 'very great hardships in Their progress; mate a prisoner, and are in change of losing their dld tilt: of people that live In trees: they are in what of provisions, and Lfe a young negro; find some marks of gold, and receive intelligence where to get it: Sir falter enters the river Orinoco, and is visited by a neighbouring king. T HEIR accommodation was certainly very,bad, being exposed, to the driving rain or the scorching fun by day; and having nothing but the hard plank to repose on by night. Certainly not the worst prison could be more distasteful than so many people closely flowed together, with very few cleanly necessaries, or rather none, so that the bare frcwzy smell of their cloaths mull have been very disagreeable: besides their food being cooked in the resides of them, which was mostly stale sigh, and ths.t not over delicate, increased the dissatisfaction The prospect was moreover rather ter ribie than indifferent; for though in four days they got above the force of the tides, they were so While round by the different currents and eddies, tilsit ater toiling a long time, they often found,they
they had brought themselves back to the play they had been striving to avoid, or from which they let out; and there did not appear any great room to hope a safe extrication from such innume. able freights and islands, so very much alike a scarce to be distinguishable; the borders being crouded with trees that hung their reverend bough, almost to the water edge, adding a gloomy horror to the natural loneliness of the place, to which the changes of the weather and hazards of the water made a considerable addition indeed the whole together seemed sufficient to intimidate the boldest heart; yet the ease and etna. dimity with which Sir Walter bore every-hardship, whose taste for luxury and the pleasures of a court appeared in his manner-of cultivating them when at home, invigorated all his followers; and as glory was the game, there was no murmur in the chace, though never so hazardous.,At length on the 22d of May, Ice, theyen tered a river, which they called Red-cross river, as not knowing any name f6r it; here they drew up in a creek not far from a town, where their pilot Fernando going on shore, had like to hae been torn in pieces by dogs set upon hint by fons of his hospitable countrymen; however., being nimble fellow, he escaped, and swam off to Ra leigh's barge; during his absence they seized an old man, whose head they threatened to cut off, unless he .procured their pilot's liberty; however, they afterwards used him with singular respect, and he was of great use in guiding them through their. intricacies of the river, among which, thou gh ell acquainted, he was often at a loss the people who inhabit the mouth of thisfl' ver are called Tivitivas; they are a bold race, much inured to hardship, sensible of the value liberty, and sufficiently courageous to de end it:,tthy
they build cabins on the ground in summer, but, to preserve themselves from the floods of winter, form little huts among the branches of trees, where they live very contentedly: and retirements of this sort are not only common here, but in those parts cf the East-indies wherein there are great rains. In this river Raleigh's barge ran so forcibly aground, that they despaired of ever disengaging her; however, they got her off in four days, and with prodigious fatigue continued their voyage by the Amant, one of the-branches of 'the Oro novo: they were now within five degrees of the line, and Sir Walter endeavoured to keep them in good humour, by privately directing the pilot to give them hope-from time to time, that they were near an end of their labour. Their provisions being almost all consumed, their old Indian pilot undertook to conduct them, in a very short space,. to a town where they might be well supplied; but he amused them all day and all night without the least appearance of being able to keep his word, so that a less prudent leader would have punished him for deceit; however, the succeeding morning, he convinced them of his truth, by pointing out to them a place that afforded them very necessary refreshment. In this last voyage, which extended to above eighty miles, they met many surprizing fish, some extremely large, particularly crocodiles, one of which swallowed up a young negro attendant of 'raleigh's, who went into the water to swim, in sight of the whole company. Soon after this event, they seized two canoes laden with excellent bread, be longing to the Indians called Arwaycas, who ran them on shore, and took refuge in the woods, be ing persuaded by the Spaniards that Raleigh and his people were cannibals. VOL. III. H He
He followed them with a view of acquiring in. intelligence, and as he crept through the bushes, stumbled on a refiner's basket, in which were quick-silver, salt-petre, and other things necessary in trying metals, together with some refined ore, Then he found the Arwaycas, 'who informed him, that they had been accompanied by two other canoes laden with gold ore, which had escaped; one of these people he kept for his pilot and from him he learned where, when and how the spaniards worked for gold ; which intelligence he communicated to two of his people, to be made use of at a proper season ; one of there Ar. waycas he kept to pilot him, he having before served the Spaniards in the same capacity: and having here sufficiently refreshed his companions, they ap. feared as well satisfied as himself, and promised follow him to the end of the world; so that on .the 6th of June, they entered the river .)roioko, and obtained a true account of the nations inhabiting the banks on each side of it.,This river lies due east and west; it is one of the largest in the world, being computed three hundred miles wide at the mouth, extending from the Tea to Quito in Peru; it is navigable for Ships of burthen a thousand miles, and for lesser vessels double that space; it discharges itself by fifteen mouths into the sea, is generally twenty fa thon deep, and in no place less than two and half.,On the Sth day after his entering this river, he came to anchor at Mosquito, in the provinces Aroraia, being more than three hundred miler within land; and here, theenfuing day about noon, he was visited by the king of the province, to whom he had sent an invitation. This monarch, tho' one hundred and ten years old, came on foot,,and
and walked stoutly back the same day, the length of his journey being above twenty-eight mile she brought with him a large train of attendants both male and female, with plenty of provisions and variety of fruit; and held a long discourse, in which he descanted much upon the cruelty of the Spaniards; to which Raleigh answered, in a speech not unlike that made to the chiefs in the idand of Trinidad, in which he set forth, " The virtues " his sovereign queen, whose greatest ambition," he said, " was to relieve distressed nations, and [" curtail the pride and power of the Spaniards or ts Castella, which were the only motives of her' " sending him to Guiana:" he then began to in quire into the strength, policy, alliances, and go government of the country, its disposition with regard to its neighbours, and the easiest methods of invading it; to all which interrogations the king replied in a manner so perspicuous and ingenuous, as plainly to evince, that judgment and ratiocination are not entirely the effets of learning, or of education, but nature's unblessed gifts Some of the royal attendants presented Raleigh with a very small but curious kind of paroquet; also with a little animal not much known at that time, called the armadillo, whose body is covered with a hard scale like the rhinoceros, and bears a white horn of great efficacy in medicine. After the king's departure, our intrepid adventurer sailed westward up the river Cacoli, being thereunto induced not only by the account of the many won ders it afforded in itself, but also because it led to a nation, the people of which were subject to the emperor of Guiana, and celebrated for warlike at chievemerits.,But the current was so extremely rapid, that an eight.oared barge could not gain the length of a shone's throw in two hours, though the river was ash 2 broad
broad as the Thames at Woolwich, wherefore fr Walter was forced to land and encamp upon the ,banks while be sent off an Indian to acquaint the lords of Canuri, who dwelt in that province, of his arrival; and a prince called Wonuretona, soon as. ter came down to visit him, having a numerous train of followers, and bringing all kinds of re. freshmen; from him he learned that the Caroline were not only declared enemies to the Spaniards, but also to the Epuremei, a neighbouring nation abounding with gold: he was also informed, that at the head of this river were three other nations esther same disposition; and also that there was silver mine on the banks of it, but it was not then possible for any boat to live upon the surface, the waters being much out, and the swell very great; wherefore he dispatched between thirty and fortI men to coast along the river side by land; while he himself, with a few officers and some ammuni. tion, marched up the country, to take a view of the cataracts of the river, the noise of which they had heard at a very great diflance.,CHAP,
H A P. VL fqy find every where great marks of a wealthy and plentiful country: an account of men whose-routes dances are in their breaths: an endeavour of Mr. Theobald to explain this phenomenon: they return to their ships; and in the w ,y, Sir Halter has another conference with e old king; and is cn- chased to la gold mine by a cacique ROM the top of one of the first hills com landing the river, they beheld it divide into' three streams, which ran very rapidly upwards of twenty miles, for they did not suppose their sight tookin a more extensive view, and were interfered. by several tremendous falls, that added a pleating yet fearful variety to the landskip; pouring over rocks of prodigious height, with such force, thar the vapour arising from the rebound was like a heavy shower of rain, or rather resembled the thick smoak hanging over a well inhabited city;. while the noise nearly equalled that of thunder never did country wear a more agreeable or inviting appearance; the plains were level and ex tensive, free from brambles, covered with rich grass, and beautifully watered ; the soil was hard sand fit for either walking or carriage, and here and there a hill rearing up its verdant head, as if by chance, gave new pleasure to the prospect: no music was ever exceeded by the concert of birds, that, as the evening descended, perched on every bough, and while these charmed the ear, the eye was enchanted with their delightful plumage; on the banks of the river were cranes and herons of white, crimson, carnation, and other lively co lours. The air, which was kept in motion by a salutary eastern. breeze, smelt of perfume, and no,H 3 place
place in the world could give fairer hopes of im. mense wealth, every stone which they stooped to take up bearing the marks of gold or silver inter. mixed with its other particles; however, a Spa. Diary well skilled in metals, to whom some of there were shewn, said they were the madre de toro or mother of gold, being of small value themselves but a proof of the exigence of mines not far off there is a river in this country called Cora, the banks of which are inhabited by a people whose heads are fixed in their breast, and who have no neck: Raleigh does not pretend to have seen there people himself, but says he received in. formation concerning them, from persons whose veracity could not be called in question at any rate; Sir John Mandeville speaks of them in his travels, but, on comparison, it appears that he copied his description of them verbatim from Fliny.,M'r. Theobald, in his notes upon the play of Othello, advances a conjecture with respect to them, that has its foundation in judgment, and carries some probability; he says, that a certain set of people in northern Muscovy wear a close gar. ment, which has very long sleeves, and is only open at the neck; and that in cold weather they draw out their hands, and throw this covering over their heads, so that their faces are seen at the opening, originally adapted to the neck, while like arms, the empty sleeves hang down from above their ears; and it is very probable, that a race of people thus equipped, being only indistinctly ob served from a distance, might give some rise to the notion of these monsters their progress now began to grow disagreeable and fatiguing, the rains falling thick, and the floods pouring so suddenly from the hills, that they were before night up to the neck in water, upon Spots of,ground
ground over which, in the morning, they had marched dry (hod besides the tempest every day increased, and the navigation of the river became dangerous; moreover, every man of them was pretty weary of his cloaths, having worn them above a month without change, or being in any other manner refreshed but by the rains, which washed them often on the owner's back ten times a day: these and many other inconveniencies deter mined them to discontinue their course, and make the best of their way back to the ships, from which they had now been a month absent; having' gone about four hundred miles, and made many curious discoveries as to the situation, riches, and manners of the different territories on which they had chanced to touch though the wind was against them, they found very little trouble in their return, for the force of the stream carried thereat the rate of a hundred miles a day: they made a flop at the port of Mo: requite, Sir Walter being desirous of conferring again with the old king, for whose reception he pitched a tent on the strand ; nor was it long be fore his royal guest arrived, with a very numerous train loaded with provisions and presents. Raleigh questioned him with regard to the best way of coming at the richest parts, and the most civilized towns of Guiana: the answers which the king gave him were very satisfaCtory; he intimated to him, that he (hould not think of penetrating as far as the great capital Manoa, for neither the season of the year befriended him, nor was his number of men sufficient for the enterprize; he. also told him, that in the plains of Maureguarai, the first civilized town of Guiana, and about four days jour ney from Mosquito, three hundred Spaniards had been lately cut off, who had invaded it, without having made any friends among their bordering 4 nations,
nation, most of whom were enemies to, and would be ready. enough to join in any attempts against the kingdom of Guiana therefore they ought previously to be won.,In this place,.he said, were generally made the plates of gold and other utensils of that metal, which were scattered over the empire; and when Raleigh sought to know how they severed it from the stone, the king replied, they seldom troubled themselves with the gold in the stone; that which they commonly used, being found in grains of great purity on the lake of Manoa, and many other rivers that they mingled with it a certain portion of copper to temper it; and then threw it into a large .earthen pot over a great fire, the Heat of which was made more intense by being blown by the breath of-men, communicated by long reeds and when the metal was in a stAte of fui on, it was thrown into moulds of-shone or clay, and so formed either into images or plates. Sir Waller brought samples of both sorts home with him, not so much for the value, as to Shew their nature; for to prevent these people from entertaining a notion that he came for gold, he gave among them in presents more value, in twenty fhillag. pieces of the queen's coin, whose image they bore, and the na, times hung about their necks, than he brought from thence in inwrought gold the king informed him that he might easily, in his opinion, with his present force, seize on the town of Maqureguarai, and offered to assist him at well as he could, provided fifty Englishmen were left behind for his body guard.; but Raleigh de. lined the expedition because of the season of the year, and for many other reasons: on which the king begged of him to evacuate his territories as soon as possible, left the Epuremei should return and revenge upon them his sojourn therein after he was,gone;
gone; or that the Spaniards should insult him for it; they having once before made him feel the weight of their resentment, by taking him prisoner, and hurrying him about in chains for seventeen days; after which he was forced to pay an hun died plates of gold, and several chains of spleen stone, for his ransom.,He also complained grievously of the Epuremel' having plundered him and his subjects of all their women, so that those who used formerly to have' ten or a dozen wives, were now reduced to three or four, and he assured Raleigh, that the hopes off recovering them, without any other view whatsoever would secure to him the assistance of him and'i his people, if he returned at a proper season of the year; and concluded it was not without vexation that they knew the chiefs of the Epuremei possessed from fifty to a hundred women each, while he and his subjects were curtailed in their number. Sir Walter did not leave them without street pro. mises of returning;,At his departure, a great cacique, called' Pu tijona, promised to shew him a wealthy gold mine,. which, with much fatigue, they reached, though to little purpose, having no instruments for; either working or digging; and to have flayed to have dug with their nails, Raleigh himself says. might have been a proof of their unwearied industry, but not at all of their good sense. In this journey one of their attendants kindled a fire, by rubbing together two flicks, that have the same efieda as a- flint and steel, and here they dried their (hints,, which were heavy and wet with the great heat. They also saw many rocks shining like gold, at round hill of mineral tone,. and a very high: mountain looking at a distance like a white church. tower of prodigious height, from the top of' Which burst a vast torrent, and this was called the-,EL- 5a Cristal
Cristal Mountain; and contained, as Berreo'told him, diamonds and other valuable stones, that were often seen to blaze from afar with great laftre.,This mountain was fitunted'in the river Winica. port, on the basks of which he found a village bearing the same name. The inhabitants of it that all got drunk by way of honouring fore solemn festival; however, they refreshed bin and his people plentifully, and gave them a very side flavoured wine pressed from the pine-apple. One would have imagined they derived this me. thod of keeping holiday, from a communication with some part of European his return to his (hips, he was overtaken bya violent Form, and had like to have been los among the shoals, being obliged, with Gifford, Hatfield, and Grenville, to quit his galley, and take to his boat; with which he ventured out upon a very boisterous sea, and was so lucky as next day to reach Curiapan, in the island of Trinidad, where his (hips lay at anchor, and where he was soon joined by lis gall-y,c H AL.
C-H A P. VII. Sir Walter reaches his Ships in safety; sets sail for england; burns the Spanih town of Guiana for resting him victuals, and deefro)s same other Spa nigh settlements. Some observations on the consequences of this voyage. IN all this dangerous progress he lost but one-.,man, and that was the negro who was swallowed up by the crocodile; nor did there appear amongst his people the smallest sign of a calenture: or of any other infectious disorder, notwithstanding the many difficulties they had sustained; tho' they had been in want of every conveniency, and' frequently flood in need of food, or were forced to, eat any bort of fish or fruit that fell in their. way ; for they were sometimes reduced to prey upon the, crocodile, the armadillo, and the. sea-cow or manati; the last is a fish more bulky than a hogs head, which yields excellent oil; its flesh is said to be like bees, and its hide, when dressed, is an ex excellent buff, of which are made strong targets and. armour.,In his return home, he burned the town of Cu. mana. because the Spaniards refused him victuals,, and St. Mary's and Rio de la Hacha underwent the same fate; nor is-it probable, though Camden and. others who were not Sir Walter's best friends as firm it, that he could have got much plunder in. there places; the Spaniards retiring with their riches to the firing holds, and inaccessible places., is the mountains: be this as it will, his voyage. added to the increase of. his.fame, and procured. him a great deal glory .she was received inLErrlatd,. wi:b.vifi acclama,,iittioW!li'. ' j.,;, bris i.- .,Alh ir.i ' sod: o-c,H 6. old
old king whom we have so often mentioned, xvhc was converted to 'Christianity, and. baptized by the name of Gualtero, or Walter, which name I sup. pose Sir Waiter himself gave him; in lieu of whom he left behind him, at their own requests, Hugh Goodwin, a boy of a quick capacity, to learn the Indian languages, but he was ensor. tunately devoured by a wild beast; and one Francis Sparrow, an excellent draughtsman, who flayed for the sake of describing the countryside praise of Sir Walter Raleigh, on account of this voyage, employed the pens of many ingenious men of those times; captain Keymis, who was one of the adventurers, wrote a latin poem, describing-the riches and situation of the country; and re capitulating the whole expedition; and Mr. George Chapman composed an heroic poem of two hundred lines on it, in which are many great compliments paid to the prudence and intrepidity of Sir Walter; who published an account of all his adventures in this progress, written by himself that he opened a passage to one of the richer nations, by all accounts, in the world, is very certain and had the queen taken pains to encourage the settlement of it, the English crown would have had a balance of treasure equal to that of Peru, Mexico, and the other Indian dominions of Spain: but there were many people concerned in the ma engagement of public affairs, who, jealous of Sir Walter's great abilities, took every opportunity depressing his merits; thus chusing to sacrifice their country's interest to personal and private ad vantage. And to support their invidious insinuations some of them were weak enough to say, that the ore which he brought home with him, was purchased in Barbary for a blind, and not the pro. duce of Guiana, Some of this ore was refined ia,London,
London, and produced from twelve to twenty seven thousand pound in the ton.,But why (hould we be surprized at the reflections slung on sir Walter ? Was not Columbus treat ed as a visionary, when he first talked of a new world? and Faustus called a magician, because he introduced printing ?,C H A P. VIII. Captain Remiss went with two sips on another expedi.;,timn to Guiana, but returns without any great success sir Walter employed in an expedition again Spain; is dangerously wounded: Cadiz is destroy. ed; and the town of Faro plundered: Leonard Berry's expedition to Guiana: a race of giants discovered Jfme doubts concerning the city of Manoa. N Notwithstanding all possible endeavours were In used to discourage sir Walter from pursuing his designs upon Guiana, he fitted out two vessels, the Darling and the Discoverer, under the command of captain Keymis, with a view rather of cherishing the friendship he had contracted with the Indians on the coast, than of pursuing measures of hostility, to which such force was unequal.,Keymis left England the latter end of January, and made a prosperous voyage to the port of Mo requite, where he received intelligence of the death of the old king Topiowary, and of the loss of Fran cis Sparrow, who had been carried into captivity by the Spaniards; they having artfully propagated a report of sir Walter's death, whereby several In tian chiefs, who had assembled their powers, and waited only his arrival to attack the Guianians, had been wrought upon to dismiss their forces, and fe - cure themselves. By this time the Spaniards had made a settlement on the mouth of the river Ca-troll,
roll, where they were preparing, with a battery of cannon, to give 'the English a warm reception, who with heavy hearts found themselves thus dis. appointed of their prey, as this was the passage to the mines, whence sir Walter had taken ore the preceding year: then Keymis, hoping rome assisi ance from the cacique Putijma, marched up towards the high lands, whither he with his people had re tired, intending to have set them to work, to bring grains of gold and ore in return for hatchets, knives, and other trinkets of which they were fond; or else, if wrong enough, to endeavour dislodging the Spaniards; but here he met with a second disappoint. meat, for Putijma and his followers fled on their approach, mistaking them for the enemy however, during his stay upon the coast, he had conferences with several of the natives, who were loud in the praises of sir Walter Raleigh, and ex pressed their inclination to support any measures set on foot by his countrymen, as he had behaved to them with such moderation and justice. And the cacique of Caravan, an old man, of great subtlety, sent him a solemn deputation, with assurances of friendship, and an excuse for not visiting him, as he had first promised, pleading age, infirmities, and a fatiguing road. Keymis sent him a very va. liable present of old iron, and when he left the coast, promised a speedy return with considerable succour; and told the people, that if they prepared him plenty of cafravi, the root which they use for bread, and some few plates of gold, he would give them a large quantity of beads, hatchets, and knives; and the estimation in which they hold there commodities is seen in Francis Sparrow's buy ing eight handsome young women, to .5t south of the Orinoco. the eldest not eighteen years old, for a red hafted knife t'n;r, on an average, cost him. it a ari, " .,! :l.,e;. ;*i
Captain Keymis arrived at Portland the latter end of June, having been only five months upon the voyage, of which he afterwards published an accurate account, inscribed to Sir Walter Raleigh,. whose attachment to the public good he therein particularly, and indeed justly complimenting the mean time, sir Walter Raleigh command ed a squadron, under-the lord high-admiral How ard and the earl of Essex, who failed to Cadiz with a very powerful naval force, where they entire ly destroyed a large fleet, intended for the service of Tyrone, who was in arms against queen Eliza beth in Ireland. In this expedition, the judgment and advice of Raleigh were of great efficacy; and to him was principally owing the victory, his flip gallantly fighting at the head of the fleet, and still keeping the boldest station: but he complained, that though he took two galleons himself, he earned' nothing but pain and poverty; for he was defraud ed of his share of the plunder, and dangerously wounded in the leg. The town of Cadiz was taken by storm, and the city razed to the ground'; however, the commanders took all.the care they could to preserve the churches; and, before the town was sacked, the women, children, and religious men were safely conducted to Port St. Mary that they might be out of the way of violence, hav ing liberty to carry off their cloaths, or such other goods as they liked bell. Among the fugitives was seen a young Spanish lady, of great beauty, carrying her husband on her back, whom the had before hidden, and who:n infirmities had deprived of his legs the Spaniards themselves were impartial enough to say, "( ' at tho' the English were heretics, they " had behaved in this action like valiant soldiers "t and honourable men.' In their return home, they demolished the town of Faro, withered tir. ,fiunid.
found great store of provision, some artillery, and the valuable collection of books that had belonged to Hieronymus Odorous, bishop of Sylvas and Altar. va, a man eminent for his learning; these were brought into England, and lodged in the library be. gun to be erected the ensuing year by sir Thomas Motley; to the encouragement of which, some years after, sir Walter gave the sum of fifty pounds, tho' at that time the sun-shine of his fortune was greatly eclipsed; for which 1 think he received the public thanks of the university of Oxford.,It appears that sir Walter had still sanguine hopes of doing something at Guiana; for, in a very Short time after his return from the demolition of Cadiz; he fitted out a handsome pinnace called the Watt, the command of which he gave to Leonard Berry; and having provided her with all necesse. ries for trade and discovery, she let sail from Wey. mouth in December, and about the beginning of March fell in with the river Wiapouco, on the Guiana coast; where beginning to want proviso. ons, and finding no inhabitants, the steered to Ar motto, a town where her crew were plentifully supplied, and treated by the natives, who traffick ed freely with them, and behaved with great hofpi, tality.,Captain Berry sent a very civil invitation to a neighbouring cacique, named Ritimo, to come on board his flip; which he accepted of, and was re civet in a very magnificent manner. The people of the neighbouring towns, on being convinced that this was an English. hip, flocked to the sea. shore from all quarters, bringing with them plenty of victuals and tobacco, and appearing very well satisfied with what was given them in exchange; and most of them, as being understood, anxiously solicited the English to come and drive the Spans. sods out of their territories.,From
From Armatto they. sailed: up the river Maria to OQiparia and Macirra, for the spaces fifty leagues, where they had the prospect of a most de vicious country, and saw a gigantic sort of people who carried bows of gold ; but provisions falling short, they were forced to return without pursuing their discovery farther. On the ipth of April, 1597, they entered the river Christine, where they met with a bark called the John of London, com handed by one Leigh, of whom Purchase gives some account having rowed more than fifty leagues, till they came to the falls of the said river; and being told of one that was impassable. five days journey far ther off, besides being much importuned by the inhabitants of it to afflt them against a neighbour ing nation, their enemies,. an enterprise which was neither confident with their. strength nor interest, they were forced to go back without seeing any signs of the city of Manoa, which they went in quest of, of the wealth of which they had heard much talk. Indeed, by all the most authentic accounts we have had since, there is room to suspect the ex offence of this city to be only chimerical; for we don't hear of any adventurer that has ever seen it, neither is it set down in the belt modern maps, nor mentioned by the accurate Antonio de Herrera: perhaps it was a report first raised by some of the Indians, as - golden bait to engage the Spanish assistance against their foes, and the Spaniards themselves have not revealed the cheat, that the prospect of its wealth may allure their countrymen to pursue their conquests in that country with more fpilit.,Captain Berry having procured all the intelligence possible, quitted this climate soon after, and arrived safely at Plymouth June 28th, 1597; nor were his owners in the least dissatisfied with his,voyage,
voyage, as he brought farther confirmation of the wealth of Guiana.,CHA A P. IX. S;r !Walter Raleigh made rear-admiral, ancient ups another expedition against the naval force of Spain, with the earl of Sex, Lord Thomas Howard, and a Dutch fleet: shy proceed to the azores: Ej guilty of many errors in this expedition: fane ps. cul:ar marks of didin'ion shewn tofir falter. IN the mean time the king of Spain, not in the least dispirited with the great losses he had hitherto sustained by the valour of the English at sea, had refitted his fleet, and was preparing for another attempt upon Ireland, where the numerous malcontents always gave him hope of success The rendezvous of the Spanish Shipping was appointed to be at Ferrol and the Groyne; in order to destroy which fleet in port, squadron of great strength was dispatched from England, of which the earl of Essex was admiral in chief, lord admiral Howard being indisposed; lord Thomas Howard, vice-admiral; and sir Walter rear. admiral; to which armament the States General added ten (hips of war, commanded by Myn Her Van Davenport; these had also intrusions to seize the island of Ter. sera, or-some other of-the Azores, as the molt pro. per places in which to wait for the India fleet home ward-bound.,However, their measures were greatly disconcerted by a violent storm, in which not only sir Walter, but the earl had like to have been lost, and very narrowly escaped; during which time the Spaniards had received full information concerning their strength and destination, and took such me thos of defence, that when my lord Essex arrived in their view, he found it impossible to attack them,without
without enticing them from their harbour, an en devour that proved fruitless; on which they bore away for the Azores, where sir Walter coming be fore Essex, made -a descent on Fayal, a service he had intended for himself, in a council at which the rear-admiral had not attended, being prevented by some unavoidable accident, consequently he was ignorant of such a resolution; and tho' there was but little booty got by the descent, it created ill blood between them, which however, by all ac counts, was soon affwaged.,The whole fleet soon after joined, and came up with the island of Flores, the inhabitants of which surrendering, were very kindly used. My lord Es sex intended to have remained here for some time, but he was dissuaded from it by one of his pilots, who, unacquainted with the place, affirmed it to be bad ground for anchoring, and set sail for St. Michael's; the Indian fleet arrived there in two hours after his departure, where receiving intelligence of the English, they steered for Angra, in the island of Terra, in which place they were fe cured by fl-long fortifications and a good garrison however, three prizes were taken, whose car goes were extremely rich, being valued at four hundred thousand ducats; two of them struck to Raleigh, who expressed great satisfaction at the wind fall, as he imagined they might, in some mea sure, veil the many errors into which lord Essex's natural heat several times plunged the fleet in this expedition, whose preference to the soldiery, while it was very particular, often disgusted the navy, and forced them into wrong measures. A proposal be ing made for an attack on the town of St. Michael, lord Essex went to reconnoitre the place in his barge, accompanied by some land-officers, by whose advice he had often been mined, calling back sir Walter who had been first commanded on that,service
service: some body spoke to Essex, as he was put. ting off, to take his armour ; an advice which he refused, saying, he scorned to take an advantage to himself which he could not communicate to the men who rowed him. This was not only fool-hardi. nets, but imprudence; since every man ought to defend himself from danger in the best manner,pof. ib!e, so far as is consistent with honour; and it s incumbent upon a general to be careful of his per. son, as his being suddenly taken off may expose the body that he leads to such confusion, as is gene. rally consequential to the want of a chief however, the earl took care to keep beyond the reach of danger, and on his return reported the landing-place, to be inaccessible, tho' certainly much easier than that of Fayal; but he permitted hin. elf to be over-persuaded by the advice of people who had other views, and chose to go on thereabout six miles farther off, at Villa Franca, in a pinnace raleigh's, called the Guiana attended by about two thousand soldiers, who were to have marched down on the back of St. Michael's, while Raleigh, with the great ships, drew as near to the town at he could, by continual alarms to take off their at mention from the land-side.,But this vigilance was all thrown away; for the army, instead of acting pursuant to the concerted measures, was allowed to waste five or six days in rioting on the pleasures of the place, where was plenty of all sorts of fresh provisions and fruits and in assisting some private adventurers, who had followed the fleet for no other purposes, than to load their vessels with such commodities as the count try produced; and it was not without infinite surprise, that at the end of several days Eflel came off from Villa Franca, without doing it any damage, and gave general sailing orders.' Why his lordship proceeded thus, is a question note'
fly solved; but it was generally thought to be occasioned by some private contrat which some hi his train knew more of than himself during his absence a flip laden with Brazil wood, Fernambuc sugar, and other rich merchandise ignorantly coming to anchor in the midst of the Englifl fleet, was seized upon by sir Walter, which proved a valuable prize; and was faithfully disposed of in England to defray the charges of Raleigh's own (hip, on board of which were four hundred men, mariners included. In a very short time after, appeared a carrack of eighteen hundred tons, homeward-bound, immensely rich, from the Indies, which supposing the Englifl to be a Spa nil squadron, sir Walter having given strip or. ders for all the (hips to lie to, and neither display a flag nor fire a gun, was bearing down full fait upon them, when a meddling Dutchman, contrary to all order and discretion, suddenly weighed an cor, hoisted an ensign, and fired two or' three shots at her; which conduct convincing her of her miaake, Ihe endeavoured to make out to lea, but was prevented by the wind chopping about full in her teeth; then, rather than surrender, she ran herself a shore near the fort; and having discharged her men, and some of her treasure-was im mediately seen in a blaze, before sir Walter, who followed her in his row-barge, could come up with her; so that it was impossible to save her; which indeed might have been done, had the ar my, as it ought to have, reached the town of St. Mi chapel's, where, by hindering the men from landing, they for their own sakes must have spared the flip, whose wealth would have sufficiently paid this ex petition: nor can the land-forces be excused at any rate for this, and many other pieces of unaccountable neglect they were guilty of in the voyage.
On the 9th of October they sailed for England, and were roughly handled by a form; after which Raleigh was in great want of water, and many sorts of birds rested on his cordage; among these was a dove, which was thought not only a precursor of the calm that succeeded, but a happy presage. Sir Arthur Gorges, who has written an excellent ac count of this whole expedition, and was captain of sir Walter's flip, the Warfpite, very justly observes, that the ear! of Essex coming up to them when the tempes was allayed, attended by only two or three small barks, who but a (short time before was'fur- rounded by above fourscore stately Ships, was a true pkture of a great man in adversity, a prognostic that ought to have taught him the instability of for. tune; a lesson, the want of which hurt him in his fall they now knew themselves near the coast of Scilly, of which old Mr. Broadest, who piloted Raleigh's flip, was sufficiently aware, and follow ed the direction of his own knowledge, rather than that of the admiral's light, which guide all the relf of the fleet depended' upon. And now the morn ing breaking slowly thro' an heavy fog, sufficiently proved his skill; for he had steered clear off, tho' close to the Bishop and Clerks, while Essex was per civet 'about three leagues a head, fleering his course with expanded sails north east instead of leaf and be north which in a few hours would have brought him, and all who kept the same way, full upon the Welch sands, where they must have inevitably perished : this had certainly been the case, had not sir Arthur Gorges, who held the latter watch, sir Walter being retired to rest, ordered the master to fire a warning-gun, which he did not chuse to do, until almost forced to it; for so much had their ignorance vexed and irritated him, that he swore,they
they deserved the destruction they were running in tp for their wilfulness and ignorance. Essex, upon this admonition, tacked about, find ing it very hard to double the Cape of Scilly, and enter the sleeve: indeed he had humility enough afterwards to confers his error, and acknowledge that he owed his safety to the caution received from sir Walter's 'Ship, which put into St. Ives in Cornwall, where the people were in great corfu. sion, on account of some Spanih fly-boats that had lately made a descent upon the'coafts: however, the presence of Raleigh dispelled their fears; and in a few days after, they received an account that the Ferrol squadron had been rendered incapable of pursuing the designed invasion, by the boisterous weather, whereby the (hips were not only separated but many of them disabled.,We Shall make no remarks on the conduct cf this expedition; the reader, from reviewing it, will draw his own inferences: we shall only observe, that the earl of Essex met with an indifferent reception at court, and retired soon after to his house-at Wanflead.,Raleigh was, on his return, elected to serve in parliament, and being lord-lieutenant of the county of Cornwall, and warden of the stannaries, he was observed to as strongly for the advantage of the said county in several contested points; nor was it long before he was appointed vice-admiral of a fleet fent'out to guard the coast, against an invasion that, we are told, once again threatned the king dom, tho' from what quarter is not mentioned by the historians of those times. Lord Thomas How ard was commander in chief of this squadron, which, after about a month's cruize, was ordered home again, the expected storm having subsided. Then sir Walter was sent to Flanders upon an embassy, the particulars of which are not very remarkable,,.8 conjunctly
conjugal with lord Cobham, and:in a short time after was madefgovernorofJerfey: .he then attend. ed-as captain of the guards at the death of the earl of Essex, and was deputed, :along with lord Cob. ham, &c. to receive the marquis de Rodney, after. wards Duke of Fully, who was sent in quality of ambassador from France to the court of England.,CHAP. X. The qettn's death lays he foundation of Raleigh's ru;:,a slight view of his trial and condemnation: ht is Jet at liberty: his la . voyage to Guiana: h great care of net giving the Spaniards any room for con. plaintive death of queen Elizabeth, which hap. opened shortly after, deprived sir Walter of a very powerful protectress, and his fall seemed to be hastening on apace; for Essex, who was behead ed in the tower, had laboured hard to misrepresent him, in a literary correspondence which he had held with James,. then the VI. of Scotland, non I of England, which made too deep an impression upon that prince; and it was confirmed by thetis. like of Cecil, who was on very indifferent terms with the knight: this was one of the principal things that contributed to bring him to the bar,' where he was condemned to die, for having con. spired the death of the king and his issue, and de vised putting the crown on the head of lady Ara bella Stuart. The chief testimony of his guilt was the deposition of lord Cobham, which that noble man had made when irritated against Raleigh, and afterwards confessed to be false indeed one would think it was the king's real opinion of him that it was so; since he was not ordered for execution till many years after this,3 trials
trial; and the king himself wicked, at his advice be ing often asked in the most important affairs relating to the slate and kingdom: nay, he was at length fct at liberty, and allowed to go out of the nation though under sentence; nor can any thing jus tiny his being-called down to it, after so many years had elapsed, and no new crime was laid to his charge, but that of annoying the enemies of England and adding more to its glory. Nothing is more evident, than that his destruction was owing to the arts and prevalence of count Gondamor, the Spanifh ambassador at our court.,No body, at this day, will deny his being sacri ficed'to the revenge of the Spaniards, who could not easily forget the many disgraces which he had retorted on them, both by his counsel and conduce; had not this been the case, he would not have lived to see his estate conferred on the new favourite Ro bert Carr, afterwards earl of Somerset, in prejudice to his wife and children, nor had his virtues fAllen a prey to the machinations of an infamous faction's it is our business only to give an account of the voyages and discoveries made by sir Walter Raleigh, we have passed slightly over many other transactions of his lfe, taking no more notice of them than such as is necessary in connecting this work; wherefore we shall proceed to observe, ths after being confined for twelve years and some odd months he was set at liberty, thro' the mediation of fame of the royal family, and fevers of the nobility but particularly though the influence of sir George Villiers, then a rising favourite, to whom he had promised a considerable fate, by way of recompence, in the profits of-any voyage he should undertake.,7'he gold mines of Guiana fill employed his thoughts; and he was no sooner free, than he made,or,. Ii. 1 - hat
what preparations he could to go again upon that expedition; making shift to raise for that purpose ten thousand five hundred pounds, of which two thousand five hundred were produced by the sale of a house and some lands at Miriam in Curry, be longing to his wife. And no sooner was his de sign made public, than he was joined by several rich people, who advanced large sums towards the principal expence, being in consequence thereof ad mitted joint adventurers, and intitled to fare the profits of the voyage, in proportion to the sums they had expended at first. The king also granted him a special commission for the voyage, constituting him general and commander in chief of all the forces and ships going upon it, and giving him full power to punish capital crimes, whereby the lives and deaths of all his followers were lodged in. his hands; and his authority was made as extensive as poflible.,This commission was signeT on the 26th day of Auguff, Ici, in the fourteenth year of the reign of King-James I. and the powers thereby veiled in Raleigh were of such a nature, as, in the: opinion of the great sir Francis Bacon, to find sufficiently in the place of any formal pardon that the king might otherwise have granted to him.,The ships prepared to go on this expedition vere, The Destiny, sir Walter Raleigh admiral; Walter,Raleigh, son to sir Walter, captain,,440 tons, 36 guns, and 200 men. The Jason of London, J. Bennington vice-admiral,,240 tons, 25 guns, So men. The Encounter, Edward Hastings master, who dy-,ii:g, was succeeded by captain Whitney,,160 tons, I6 guns. The Thunder, sir Warham St. Leger captain,,150 tons, 20 guns, 70 men. Tithe
The Flying Joan, John Whitley captain,,120 tons, 14 guns, 25 men. The Southampton, John Bailey captain,,80 tons, 6 guns, 27 men. The Page, a pinnace, James Barker captain,,25 tons, 3 brass guns, 8 men. The Converting, commanded by captain Keymis. The Confidence, commanded by captain Wollaston. The Flying Hart, a shallop, sir John Ferme com-slander. Two fly boats, commanded by Samuel King and robert Smith. Besides, there was one or two more:,Raleigh expected to have failed with there about the end of March, but many accidents conspired to; detain him till the beginning of July; when he turned out of Plymouth harbour, but was driven by a violent torn into Cork in Ireland, where he was detained by contrary winds seven weeks; during which time he bought fifty oxen, which he distributed among his men; and a fair gale springing up, he put to sea on the seth of August.,September the 6th he arrived off the island of Lancelot, and sent to desire leave from the go vernon to traffic for provisions: the governor at first promised him a meeting, which he deferred, and at length flatly refused to have any dealings with him, telling him, the islanders were so much afraid of him, that he dared not; and desired that he would draw offfuch of his men as he had landed upon the island; a request that he complied with, notwithstanding which they fell upon his men, in their retreat, one of whom they flew, loudly declaring he should have nothing from them, for they suspected him and his company to be the Turk ifh fleet, that had lately destroyed Puerto Sancho. Of this outrage he complained to the governor of the Grand Canaries, who, instead of answering,.,I 2 failed
sallied out upon his men, as they went to draw water in a desart part of the sand; and had not young Raleigh, and bone other officers, behaved very gallantly in repulsing them, they hed been all cut off. If sir Walter did not return these hostilities it was because the coast of Spain should have no room to complain of his conduCt-from hence they steered to Gorera, which is a good port, and well defended; where with a view to c pose their landing, the spaniards who lined the beach, standing almost in the water, saluted them very roughly, but they were soon dispersed by the cannon of the feet; after which prelude-he sent a-r.effenzer on ohcre, to assure the governor he had no hol.i!e intention; that he wanted a few necks. series, fer which he would pay very honourably; ans, if any of his men should attempt the least riot cr fraud, he premised to hang them in the market Space: and so wel! did he keep his word, that when ije left the iCand, the governor wrote a letter by him to count Gonc'amor, then only Don Diego Sar mnento, the Spanih ar fbalLdor at the court (f London in which he acknowledged the civil demean. our of Raieih, giving him that just character ' which he ir'ii/putablv merited.,Ia.ny civilities passed between him and the go vernon's late, *sho .was of Eglifhl extraction, her name being Horne, and related by the mother's fie to the affords: tfe sent him fruits, rusk, fu gar, and fcn.e other useful presents i for which, in return, he complimented her with a beautiful picture of Mary magdalene, a ruff of extraordinary fine workmanship, extract of amber, and rose water, a ccmmrroi ty hihlv valued in the island. Here he set a liberty a bark belonging to the Canaries, which o;-2 of his furnaces had teized escape Blancoo, the crew of wich complaining that his men had eaten:,
of their fish, to the value of six ducats, he generously gave them eight after he left this place, he was often exposed, by the severity of the weather, to the molt imminent dangers ; so that while violent opposing storms damaged his ships, destroyed his cables, and tore away his anchors, the unceasing rains and intolerable heat of the climate bred a sickness on board, which carried off numbers of his .men, and at length attacked himself with such severity, that it was twenty days before there were any hopes 'of his recovery ; during which, he had such 'violent sweats, that he was forced to shift at least three times a-day; and had he not carefully preserved some of the refreshments which the lady had .be stowed on him, he often declared, he believed it im possible that he (hould have survived. About the I2th of October, freezing their course for Guiana, they were struck with a dead calm, tho' from every part of the horizon glanced strong portents of tempestuous weather, being so very thick and hazy that they were obliged to use a candle at the binnacle at mid-day, otherwise they could not have seen t. steer and watery rainbows, of the most gloomy disagreeable colours,, playing continually round them ;-these sir Walter often met with in the American seas, particularly fifteen in one day, among which was one bent into a circle, and he always observed them to be forerunners of bad weather about the latter end of October, their water be ginning to run Short, and the crew being reduced to half-allowance, they were relieved by a very heavy rain, of which they saved Come hogsheads; and though it was extremely bitter, it was a great refreshments 3 CHAP,
CHAP. XI. Ralegh c>:r;ves at Valiant, and writes heme an ac-,cc.rt of the sickness of his people: hisjhips in danger tf be'no !lyt : an incursion inarch of a gold mint is nr propose : young Raleigh is killed: sir Salter sb.iiged ta return h:mne, where he is misrepresented, defrayed by sir Lewis Southey, called down to his frmerr sentence, and beaded. O N the I i th of November they arrived, in this sickly condition, off Cape Wiapoco, where Raleigh hoped to have been assisted by his old ser want Leonard, an Indian that had-lived with him in England three or four years; but hot finding him readily, they flood away for Valiant, which is in five degrees on the coast of Guiana: here he went on shore and pitched a tent, but did not venture to table any pines till he had been a day or two accustomed to the land air, when he ate some armadillo, pork, &c. and was attended by his In tian servant Harry, together with some caciques, who brought him'caffivi bread, plantains, piftacias,. roasted mullets, pines, &c. In this place he landed his sick men, who by the air and refreshments soon recovered, very few dying, among which few was captain Hastings, brother to Lord Huntington.,Raleigh here wrote a long letter to his wife, which was sent home by captain Peter Alley, who, on account of a vertigo that violently affixed him, had leave given him to depart in a Dutch vessel that lay in the road. In this letter he observed, That he had lost forty-two men by sickness; but the air of Guiana strengthened daily those that survived, amounting to two hundred brave fel lows. And he concludes with telling her, No-thing
thing can exceed the humanity of the Indians, and their readiness to serve him; his good behaviour among them before being so strongly impressed upon them, that they solicited him abide among them, and he should reign over them as their sovereign prince having cleansed the flip thoroughly, prepared his barges and flal!nps, refreshed his men as well as he could, and flocked himself with wood, water, &c. he left this river the 4th of December, and next day they were all near being lost, by running a-ground on the shoals off the Triangle Sands, from which they were twenty four hours in getting off.,Sir Walter Raleigh fill continuing ill, being so weak that he was carried about in a chair, there fore unable to go-upon any laborious expedition, resolved to remain with five of his greatest ships at Punta de Gallo in the Island of Trinidad, while the well of them, commanded by captain Keymis, his son, and a few other gentlemen, with five or six companies of foot, should proceed up the river Orinoco, with a month's provision, in search of the mine already mentioned; between which and the ships he directed that the men who were to go on flore should encamp, until the depth and breadth of the mine was found out. At the same time he de sired they would be careful of landing, in case they found the Spaniards very strong, as a repulse from them would reflect a dishonour on the-nation; to which he would not with to contribute: and his in ffrucions concluded with observing, that if they did not find the mine well worth working, they need bring thence only a small quantity of the ore, to convince the king that it was not a child of his own fancy dispositions being thus made, Keymis and young Raleigh set forward for the mine on the loth of December, and soon reached a Spanish towns 4 con-consisting
of one hundred and forty houses newly built, upon the main channel of the Orinoco, be. r;-een which ard' the mine they, in a short time after their arrival, pitched their tents, whereby their vessels were left exposed to the enemy, who made a sally upon them in the night, and surprized them in Such a manner, that they had been all cut to pieces, had not young Raleigh and some other captains rallied them when they were near flying, and brought them back to the fight, with such success, that they drove the Spaniards back, and came to the town-gate at their heels, where the sight was v-ioroufny renewed by the governor, Don Diego Pala.eca, and some other Spanish leaders: one of these fell by the hand of young Raleigh, who pressing forward upon another with more rashness than discretion, and being far a-head of his men, was first lor, and afterwards killed dead bathe blow of a musket. The Spaniard who slew him was run through the body with a albert by serjeant John Kensington; and the fight continued very hot at the entrance of the town, till the governor, fainting under his wounds, was trampled to death; on which, his men dispersed, some of whom how ever secured themselves in the market-place, and the English finding it not easy to dislodge them, fired the town, a circumstance which forced them to shy to the mountains.,Keymis having secured some papers, a small quantity of treasure, and a few curious things, that had .belonged :o the governor, now determined to make an attempt upon the mine; but, the passes were too well defended for him to succeed : for in his way he fell into an ambuscade, whereby two of his people were killed and six others wounded, amongst whom was captain Thornhurft, who languish for three months after in great torture.,This
This surprize, and some other disappointment, discouraged Keymis so much, that notwithstanding there were some offers made of pointing him out. other gold mines, he chore to make his way back to the sips, to which step he was in some measures l:gcd by the murmuring of the majority of his men: but his contra was so very disagreeable to sir Wal ter Raleigh, that he reprimanded him very severely; on which Bevis retired in discontent to a cabin; and a pistol soon after going off, Raleigh called out to know the occasion of it, and Keyinis answered, Nothing, but a pistol that he had let off on account of its being long charged. In about an half hour after, his boy found him lying dead, weltering in' blood. with the pistol and a long knife near him; it appearing on examination, that he-had endeavour ed first to shoot himself, but the pistol bullet having been finally, had only cracked one of his ribs; so that effectually to dispatch himself, he had thrust the knife through his left pap. This accident happened about the end of February, I618.,As matters wore but a very indifferent face, Ra leigh called a council of his officers, whose opinion was, that they ought to retire to Newfoundland, to refit and refresh; but, many of his men mutiny ing on the way, he was obliged to flip them home wards with his cousin Herbert at the island of St. Kit:s.,When he arrived at Newfoundland, there were great disturbances on board his own flip, which not being able to quell, he endeavoured to-assuage by joining with the stronger party; which, though it was against his inclination, declared for returning to England, and even this circumstance had like to have colt him his life about the end of July he arrived at Plymouth, where he found the king had published a proclama tion, requiring him and his people to appear be-,1 5 fore
fore the privy-council, to answer " For having G~ burnt the town of St. Thomas, and committed " many hostilities against the laws of nations, up. " on the territories of the king of Spain, actions " very detestable to his majesty, and with he ne - ver could think of countenancing." From these and many other motives he was easily informed that his actions had been much misrepresented and painted in colours as black as they were fife: nevertheless, he resolved to surrender him. self and having relied a short time, set forward from Plymouth to London, but had not travelled above twenty miles when he was met by sir Lewis Stuckley, vice-admiral of Devon, who had orders to arrest him; with whom he went back to Plymouth, until a formal warrant came down, requiring him to'be brought prisoner up to London. During the time that he remained in custody in that town, he ordered one captain King to retain a bark in which he might escape out of the kingdom; but he was so firarigely infatuated that he did not pursue his resolution, though he might have easily done it; and it was plain, that such was the enmity of the Spa nisi minister and his faction against him, and their prevalence at court, that his definition was una voidable after sir Walter arrived in London, he was com mitted prisoner to his own house, where, relying upon the pretended friendship of Stuckley, to whom be had given considerable presents in rubies and diamonds, he privately solicited the recommendation of the French ambassador his master's court, intending to retire thither with the first favourable opportunity, and had appointed a vessel to wait for him at Gravesend; but in going thither, in the night, he found too late, that he was betrayed; for, as he came near Greenwich, he saw he was *beset by some of the king's barges, on Which hera made
made to land, and they followed him; some of their crew going on shore, to whom he was delivered by Stuckley, who arrested him in the king's name as they came up, at the same time hinting to him, that it was out of refpea to his safety; " For, said " he, if I concur in securing you, or at leaR seem " to do so, now that it is plain we are discovered, "c you will be fill left under my care, and another " opportunity may be found of escaping." But sir Walter now perceived his craft and falsehood, and answered, " Sir Lewis, there things will not turn " out to your credit." Raleigh's words'proved true; for Stuckley had privately leagued with his enemies, to insinuate himself into Raleigh's good graces, whereby he enriched himself at the un fortunate gentleman's expence, and made himself friends with the ministry, by irritating him to do something which might subject him to the power of the law; for which conduct he was universally de spied by every honest man, by every friend to virtue, and the glory of England. Nor was it long be fore he received the reward of his perfidy; for he was, soon after sir Walter's death, condemned to be hanged for clipping the very gold he had re civet for betraying him, and purchased his pardon of some of king James's favourites at the expence of every half-penny he was worth in the world; after which escape he withdrew to the island of Undy, where he died raving mad, and in extreme poverty.,On the 28th of October, f618, sir Walter Ra heigh was brought from the tower to the court of king's bench, by habeas corpus, and the record of his sentence being examined, he was ordered to, the gate-house, thence to be brought down to exe caution on the following day. Accordingly he was beheaded the ensuing morning, opposite lo the par liament-houfe in Old Palace-yard, aged sixty-six years: and,, though he had been long indisposed, he,I 6> made
made a nervous speech, being a proper justification of himself froth the aspersions of the world, and behaved with great chearfulness on the scaffold; ob. serving, as he handled the executioner's ax, That it was a harp medicine, but a sound cure for all woes. His body was buried in St. Margaret's church near the altar; but his head was preserved many years in a case by his widow, and afterwards by his son, with whom it is said to have been buried at West Horsey in Surry.,Nothing more plainly proves that he fell a vic. tim to Spanifh malevolence, than a letter which king James himself wrote to the ministry. at Ma. did some short time after his execution, wherein be observes, That they can now have no excuse for waiting with insincerity, since to them he had sacrificed sir Walter Raleigh, one of the ablest men that ever was in his service. Nay, he goes farther, and-fays, Had he preserved him, he would have given his subjects great satisfaction, and had as use a man to command as served any prince in the whole Christian world,,The
The VOYAGE of Sir THOMAS,ROWE to INDIA, sent baking James. in Quality of AMBASSADOR to the Great MOGUL.,CHAP. I. S;r Thomas's birth andfirf/ appearance in life: te disappointed ambassador to, and embarks for-India. An account of the Comorin lands, and the de Septic power of their sultans: the use of betel and areca: the manner in which the people of theft islands entertain: their customs and commodities: Socotora an indifferent soil: the use of coffee fir citfrved here: the superstition of the people. S IR Thomas Rowe was born in 1568 at Wan-instead in Essex ; his father, who was also a knight, and lord Mayor of London, sent him to Oxford, where, we are told by Wood in his Athens Oxonienfes, he was entered of Magdalen college. In the year 6o04 he was knighted by king James I. at Greenwich; and prince Henry, who had a respect for his great abilities, employed him upon some discoveries to the Weft-Indies, in which he acquitted himself so extremely well, that the king thought him a very proper person to go in quality of his ambassador to the Great Mogul.,He embarked about the beginning of March and on the 5th of June his flip anchored in the bay of Saldanha, where the soil is fruitful, bound ed by a mountainous rocky country, covered with,snow.
now. The inhabitants feed on-carrion, and orna anent their necks with sheep-guts; rubbing their heads, the hair of which is curled like the blacks, with grease and dirt, by way of powder and po. natum. They cover themselves with skins, wear hog next their body the fleshy side in summer, and the hairy side in winter: they are perse brutes, having no notion of a deity, nor any form of religion the air and water here are both wholesome. They have cows, antelopes, baboons, pheasants, partridges, larks, ducks, wild geese, &c. and whales-and feal are sometimes caught in the bay: the table mountain of the cape, which is well known, is 3951 yards high, in latitude 34 degrees and some odd minutes july the 22d he made the Comorin Islands, which are five in number, lying between ten and fourteen degrees south latitude; of there Joanna is the chief, being about thirty miles long, and fifteen broad. In it resided an old woman, who was sultaness of them all; and four boats were sent on shore to the island of Moravia, off which sir Thomas lay, to the governor, who was the lady's son and her deputy, to desire Liberty to trade; for so very absolute was he, that the people dared not to barter even a coco-shell, without his per mission captain Newport was Cent on this errand with forty men, who found the governor sitting on a mat, under a junk that was building, with a chequer-worked cap on his head, a blue and red calico mantle on his shoulders, reaching down to his knees, and his legs and feet bare; when they presented him with a gun and sword, he gave them four cows, and full liberty to trade: he entertained him with coco, while he himself chew ,ed betel, tempered with calcined oyster-shells, and .arec, a sort of nut of a. bitterly take, that pro-smokes
Yokes spitting, cools the head, and fastens the teeth, which in process of time it colours red, as. it also does the spittle; and this is reckoned a great beauty; but it makes those giddy who are not used: to it.,From that of the governor's they were conduct. ed to the house of a carpenter, a man of great au authority in the town; it was built of stone, ce melted with white lime; the outside was wattled with cane, and the roof covered with rafters, over which were spread leaves of the coco-tree. At dinner, every man was first served with water, in a coco-nut, which he poured into a wooden platter, and wailed; wiping himself with a towel made of the coco-rind; after which ablution, they were entertained with roasted plantains, served up with boiled rice, pieces of broiled kid, and quarters of hen: their bread was the coco-pith, mixed with. honey and fried, and their drink coco-milk and, palmito.wine.,The people are very neat in their houses) which are but poorly furnished; and take great care of their gardens, which are mostly composed of to banco and plantains, enclosed with cane. Many of them speak and write Arabic; nor are they strangers to the Portuguese tongue: they are striA Ma hometans, and so very jealous, that they shut up all their women at the approach of strangers. Here, in exchange for linens of all sorts, sword blades, glasses and knives, the islanders bartered fat cows, good oxen, hens, coco, sheep from Ara bia, and plenty of limes. Here they have junks of a pretty large size, built, rigged, caulked, &c. out of the coco tree august the 2d they left this place, and steered for the bay of Felicia in the island of Socotora, at the mouth of the Red-sea, where they came to an thor on the 2qth, Socotora lies in fourteen de-degrees
green north latitude; it was at this time governed by Mar Ben 'eid, son to the king of Fortaque in Arabia Felix; he is very absolute, and no traffic can be carried on without his permission. Became down to the sea-side to receive the ambassador, on horseback, dressed in the Arabian manner, bare footed, but his head covered with an handsome turban he was accompanied by three of his prince. pal offices, one on a came!, the two others on horse. back, and attended by a good guard of soldiers, all armed with swords; besides which, some of them had pistols, others muskets, and others Turkish bows: he was escorted by one trumpet, and two or three kettle drums ; and he seemed to be much in favour with the people, for they thronged round him, shouting and hallooing all the way.,In this island, sir Thomas observes, that they made use of a liquor which was very black, and drank it hot: it is very likely that this was coffee, a beverage that was not then known among us. The town which the king inhabited was built of stone and lime; the houses flat-roofed, and the lower part of that wherein he himself resided was divided into warehouses for goods, and a wardrobe; in which were some changes of cloaths, and about twenty-five books, treating of law, history, or the lives of their saint. In the upper parts of the house were his three v ives; but no body were allowed to see them, though the women cfa lower rank shew ed themselves publicly enough, having silver rings in their ears.,Socotora is a hilly barren fol), producing scarce ly any thing but dates, rice, and oranges. Here are goats, sheep, nd oxen: there are some good to pages found in this place; tut the principal! commo city is aloes, being the juice of a mealy plant boiled to a consistency, and laid up to dry; it is a drug well known at this time to al our physical peoples
of such extreme bitterness that it has been called fel nature : there is also a little dragon's blood, in dig and civet; but these are in the hands of the king. The religion is that of Mahomet; and the people kneel every night to the fun, while the priests sprinkle water on their foreheads: they hold their saints in great veneration, the principal of whom lies buried in the chief town, and they say he always appears to warn them of danger; they attribute the high winds to his being abroad. The inhabitants are of four different sorts; those which it is probable are the most antient, are a savage race, that feed on roots, ride the buffalo, and avoid, all conversation with others: they have long hair, are very lean, and neither have garments to cover, nor houses to shelter them; nor do they seem much fu period in intellects to brutes. The next to there are the Jacobine Christians, .who live retired in the mountains, to which they have been driven by the Arabs, who are the third sort of inhabitants, and came in by conquest; these are the people of pro party; but they (land in vast awe of the king, not daring to (peak in his presence without leave. The fourth are a sort of slaves, who make up the aloes, and do all the menial work of the islanders.,CHAP.
C H A P. II. Sir Thorns Rowe arrives at Surat; ;s ll u/fd by tls,S6vernor; proceeds on ,h.s way to the Mogul's conti by land; in danger of robbers: very bad houses in Bramnpsre: has an audience of the king, who ge: drunk; arr,-es at Cytor, where the ruins are mag. nf.fie ,t; is graciously received by the great Mog!: customs of tis our : the Norse described.,UGUST 31lt they weighed anchor from the At" boy of Felicia, and made Surat the 26th of the following month, where the ambassador went on shore, and flayed to refresh himself till the roth of October; the governor behaving very rudely in searching his servants and baggage, and not scrap. ling to filch several things from them. On the gift of November he pursued his journey by land to the court of the Great Mogul; and on the eth arrived at the city of Underpart, in the kingdom of Brampore, subject to the Mogul, where they had good bread, being the first they tasted since they left Surat; here they saw large droves of bullocks, which are very plenty all over the country, the Banians not permitting them to be killed.,On the loth he encamped without fide the walls of the town of Chare, where he was guarded by a party of the king of Brampore's soldiers, to pro sect him from the mountain robbers; and on the sith he came to Brathapore, a village within twi miles of Brampore, where he was met by an officer of the houshold, who conducted him to the seraglio appointed for his reception; but the quarters being very bad, containing only four apart ments, each very shall, rounded like an oven, and built of brick, the ambassador chose to repose ibis
his tent, and this was one of the best houses in the town; the rest, except those of a few great men, being no better than mud-walls.,The following day he had an audience of'the king, who was seated on a stage, with curious carpeting under his feet, and a rich canopy over his head; the nobility flood round, according to their ranks, with their hands before their eyes: sir Tho mas was not permitted-to sit in his pretence, but ordered into an adjoining room, where he was told the king would allow him that liberty, and con verse with him a little; but his majesty forgot the appointment, getting very drunk with some cor dials that the ambassador had. given him among other presents. Here Sir Thomas was taken ill; yet he left the place on the 27th of Novem ber, and came, by the i8th of December, to an. old ruined city called Cytor, entirely uninhabited which, from its magnificent remains, appears to have formerly been a place of great splendor. On the 23d of December he arrived at Ardfmere, the residence of the Great Mogul, by whom he was admitted to an audience on the loth of January in a place called the Durbar: being conducted to a rail, where having made a low bow, he was admitted to pass it, and so proceeded, with the same ceremony, to a second, just under the monarch, who was seated in a little sort of gallery, elegantly adorned with velvets and silks, and covered by a rich canopy. Immediately under this balcony, within the second rail, were the ambassadors and principal nobility; and within the fires the gentry and people of inferior rank; and on the outside of all was a promiscuous crowd of common people.,He received the ambassador in a very gracious manner, and dispensing with his performing the ce memories of his court, out of respect to his com-emission,
miflcn, being satisfied with his bowing afterthi Engi'fli manner. In this place he sits once a d a constantly to distribute his orders, receive petition; grant audiences, and receive presents; and to ths; conduct the people are so used, that if they hereto be kept one day without seeing him, and not told the reason of his absence, they would be very aptto mutiny: nor will any excuse be accepted two days together; for, on the second day, four people muR be admitted to see him, as a deputation from the main body, who may, from ocular demonstration, ascertain to their brethren the truth of his being necessitated to a confinement. In the morning the generally appears at a window, having a propped over a large plain before the palace, the way of hewing himself, where he is again at noon to lee the wild beasts fight, and elephants exercise ; after which amusement he retires to his women, who are kept very close, none but the eunuchs who guard being admitted to see them. After supper, which is generally at eight in the evening, he descends to a spacious court, where he converses freely with such of his nobility as he appoints for that evening; they not presuming, nor indeed daring to come without be ing ordered. No public business, of what nature soever, is transacted any where but here, and at the durbar, and every thing is registred in an office, which any subject has a right to search for two til lings; so that the meanest mechanic is, by there means, as well acquainted with the royal resolutions as the first minister's the first of March the ambassador rode otto see a pleasure-house of the Mogul, the foundation of which is laid between two rocks, that trade it entirely from the fun, and spread around a glowing ness that to the melancholy bosom communicates a heart-felt pleasure. The rocks about it are plentifully
fully stored with wild peacocks, turtles, fowls and mokeys.,The eighteen days feast in honour of the new year, which is called the Norofe, and 'used to be kept only nine-days, beginning with:the first new moon, was celebrated on the. I th of March with vas grandeur, in the durbar, where a square throne of wood, inlaid with mo-her of pearl, was erected four feet from the ground, covered by a cano py, over which hung a netting all of pearls, orna melted at certain distances with golden apples and other fruits, and it' was supported by cane pillars. covered with the same fluff: in the area, appoint ed for the reception of the nobility, were spread the richest Persian carpets which could be bought; and a little to the right of the throne, appeared some few of the great men who were in waiting, before whom was a rail all round the durbar. The chief persons of the Mogul's dominions had pitched little tents, lined-with velvet, damasks, taf f ,y, orlcloth of gold, wherein they displayed great wealth, and whence they advanced to pay their du tv, and make presents to the sovereign, who-fors mcrny used to walk from tent to tent for them; but now he sits in the throne above described, on a cushion inlaid with pearls, diamonds, &c. and thither they are brought and laid at his feet, the treasure he then receives being almost incredible march the I eth the ambassador had another au thence, and delivered some presents; at the same time, the ion of Nama, a prince newly become tri butary, was introduced to the presence, and mani fetid this respect by touching the ground with his head. On the I3th sir Thomas had a second au thence, in order to settle the ratification of the peace with England, and to register the articles of commerce. On the Isti he assisted at the diver loss of the Norofe, on the rising of the throne, at,4 the
the Mogul's right hand; the young prince and th new tributary took their stations on the other side and hence there was a view of all that was done.,On the 23d the Mogul presented a slave to th, ambassador, in the person of a very handfonim young fellow accused, but not fully convicted felony: the ambassador accepted him, signifying would use him according to his behaviour, and keep him in quality of a servant, the laws of England not allowing men to enslave each other march the 26th, Afaph Clan, the king's favour. rite and prime minister, had orders to examine the articles of commerce, which sir Thomas had pre. pared on the part of the English; the chief of which were, that the subjects of England should have a free trade to all the Mogul's ports, both for exports and imports; that the goods of an English subject, dying in India, should not be con. scared; and many others, most of them illusion. tions and confirmations of there. The same day, the ambassador being at Guzalcan, received directions from Afaph Clan to rank amongst no biiity for the future, and not take up a place on the right-hand of the throne, where he was re markable by being alone: after some dispute he submitted, and at the next audience ranked on the same side with the prince, where being persuaded thereto by Afaph Clan, complained of it to the Mo gul; but he having examined the ambassador's rea tons, approved of his resolution, and ordered him to keep that station, as properest to his rank and quality march 3 ft, Afaph Clan made an entertainment for the Mogul, which cost him upwards of sixty thousand pounds; all the way which the Mogul went was spread with rich carpets, tacked toge ther, which were-rolled up behind him as he pars fed, for more than an English mile. July I 8th, one,of
f the Mogul's nephews was Cent to prison for re fusing to stroak a lion; and one of his sons immediately did it: tho' this was made a plea forhiscon- finement, most people believe the true reason was, his having lately professed himself a Christian, to which change he was persuaded, being a weak youth, by some who wished to remove-him from the pre fence. June 25th, Moereb Clan, who was a man of great power, but head of a faaion that opposed Afaph Clan, solicited the ambassador's friend ship; who very politically kept fair, but avoided all close connections with him: he was certainly a man of sense, and knowing in commercial matters; he advised that the English should rather import little curiosities from China and Japan, gold tissue and tapestry, than cloth and ordinary swords, their usual commodities. His excellency afterwards com mended an acquaintance with, and visited Abdalla Hassan, treasurer of the army, and commander in chief of tfe Mogul's guards; he was a civil man, who made but few compliments, discoursed very rationally on military affairs, and exercised his soldiers, who were good marksmen both with the bow and gun, for the entertainment of the am ballador.,CHAP,
C H A P. III. Tree ingenuity of the Moguls painters: that prinet,,fondness for wine: an odd cu.lcm at court: art n.uch puniJfiedSfor intriguing, together with Ihe lady, settlement prm.;fed the English at Bramnpore a character of the person who offers it: pniJhmtlr, infitpedon thieves: the vail income of the viceroy s Satan, whom sir 'Thomas sits, M Ost of the month of July was consumed in - ~ Soliciting a settlement of the articles; how. ever, on the 13th sir Thomas waited upon the Mo. gul, who received him with great cordiality at the durbar; and having heard that there was an Eng. li/h painter in his train, he desired to see him: this vas one Mr. Hughes a good draughtsman, but no great proficient in painting, x ho accordingly wait ed on, and bad a good deal of discourse with his majesty. Soon after, the ambassador gave hia very excellent picture, a present with which he was much pleased; and this being seen by one of his best painters, he pretended to be able to make copy that could not be distinguished from it. A. fash Clan offered to wager a horse with the ann ambassador, in support of his abilities, and was taken up i bat he afterwards declined it: however, anew days after, the Mogul produced six pictures toge. ther by candle light, five of which were copies and so exact' done, that it was not without some difficulty the ambassador could point out the original The Mogul appeared to be vastly pleased that his artist should have performed so very well, and promised his excellency his own portrait: then sat do::n to drink valiant, giving glasses to fe vernal of his attendants, saying, It was too goodto,be
be kept; besides, he feared it would grow four be fore he could drink it: and he continued tippling and chatting till he fell fall asleep, when without any repeat of persons, the candles were suddenly extinguished, and the ambassador left to find his way out in the dark the same day, an eunuch being abed with a female attendant belonging to the favourite Sultana was surprized in the fact and stabbed by one of his brethren, by which means the affair was made public; the eunuch was thrown to the elephants, and (he was condemned to be left three days and two nights buried-up to the arm-pits in the earth, without any manner of sustenance, and entirely exposed to all the inconveniencies of the hot fun, which, if she survived, The was to be pardoned; this lady was worth one million six hundred thousand roupies-july the 22d, the ambassador received letters from Mahomet Clan, who presided at Brampore, and (corned a mean action, setting forth, that he would give the Englifl a faCtory at Barouche, and free liberty of trade, without hinderance or mo leftation.,Mahomet was a man of integrity, above being guilty of the little pitiful extortions of other go errors, and not only a favourite with the Mogul, but beloved by every body who had any dealing with him: a settlement under him was of great advantage to the Englifl trading to India, because it was a good retreat, in case they should be driven by any sinister accident, out of Surat.,Augufl the 9th, a hundred thieves were brought chained before the Mogul, who having perused their accusation, ordered the chief of them-to be torn in pieces by dogs, and the rest to be put to death; a sentence which was immediately executed without farther process, they being divided into differential, 11. K band.
bands, in the several streets of the town; where while the dogs made an end of their leaders, the hands and feet of the rest were tied together, and their heads cut almost off with a sword, after which operation, they were left, by way of intimi. dation, in the moi public places, where they re. gained, intolerably offensive to the smell, as wells horrid to the view the both, Sith, and eth, the ambassador en. devoured to make the Mogul jealous of the de. signs of the Dutch, who had sent a flip into those seas which then lay off Surat, waiting the arrival of a fleet, that was hourly expected; on the 12th, he also visited by invitation Malden Muffin, .viceroy of Panton, about seventy years old; he was a person of great sagacity, affable and polite, a refopeor of Jesus Chrlii ; extremely well acquaint ed with the political state of his matier's domini. ens, and author of a history of his own times copy of which, Sir Thomas tells us, he offered him, but we don't find that he accepted it: the Mogul allowed him one thousand roupies a day, together with pay for five thousand horse, of which he kept only fifteen hundred on foot; and tho' this is certainly a considerable income, fomedn the Mogul's governors had double that allowance; and great numbers were on an equal footing with himselfe few days after, this nobleman entertained it excellency at Hagar Semel, a pleasure house and garden belonging to the king, which he borrowed for that purpose; he received him in a tent, pitched by the side of a very fine pond, with two of his fens, he having thirty in all, attended by a hun, died servants ; here he shewed in the king's closet and drawing room, some antiques, and a sei pieces of painting, presents from the French kill ?nd some other European princes.,Gemaldin
Gemaldin Ufllin said, he hoped his .excellency would accept in good part such a slight repast as a poor man was able to give; who was soli citous of his friendship, and had invited him ta eat bread and salt with him, as a feal of friendship which he hoped was not disagreeable; at the same time, he advised the ambassador to-cause one of his own people, who might be used as an interpreter, to be taught the Persian language; for, those who made a trade of interpreting were in general false and deceitful, and of great disadvantage to their. employers, being generally in see with some great man about court, according to whose directions they explained whatever addresses were made to the king; by which means foreign affairs were often very much retarded. He alfred him, that, in such a-cafe, he might soon obtain the grant which he solicited from the Great Mogul; who had a vast friendship for him, upon which account he might be persuaded of the esteem of all the nobility, particularly as his majesty had, the preceding night, selected from among his cu curiosities his own portrait finely done, and deli vexed it to Afaph Clan, in order that he might present it to his excellency after this discourse, dinner was served up in two different courses, one of which was set down be fore the ambassador and his train, the other before Gemaldin and his people; because their law for bids their earing with Christians. However, the ambassador having reminded him' that he had, pro missed to eat bread and salt with him ; he sat down' with him, and ate raisins, almonds, piftachoes, and other fruit. After dinner they played at chess, and when the ambassador would have taken his leave, his holt prevented him, saying this was but a slight collation, and entreating him to slay sup, per, which was the principal entertainment where-,K 2 toto
he had-invited him. In the mean time, hein. produced him to the king of Decan's ambassador, to whom he paid not near so much respect. :The supper was soon after served up, and con. rifled of meats of various kinds boiled, fried and roasted; rice dressed after different fashions, and good sallads: however, Gemaldin supped with his other guests, apart from the ambassador; who was vastly pleated with his entertainment, and to whom, at his departure, were presented five cases of star-candy dressed with musk; and a loaf of the finest, whitest sugar, weighing fifty pound, which his excellency at first refused, but Gemaldin insisted on his taking not only them, but also told him that a hundred other loaves of the same sort were ready for his acceptance; which that he might not refuse he assured him, he had them from his government by way of tribute, and they colt him nothing.,On the I7th Sir Thomas had an audience of the Mogul, at which Afaph Clan was ordered to de. liver him his majesty's picture; for which somers the courtiers insisted he should return thanks after their manner, a proposal that-he flatly rejected; and the Mogul himfelfcried out, that his making buchan acknowledgment as was usual in England was sufi ancient: on which it was put round his neck, then having taken off his hat, and been led right be. fore the regal throne, he made a low bow, and retired. This picture was appended to a slight chain of gold wire, with one pearl hanging from it, of but an indifferent kind; and tho' scarcely worth thirty pounds, was one of the most valuable presents his majesty had made a great while. tis a mark of great dissension, no body being allowed to wear it but those to whom his majesty homines gives it; and if they chuse to ornament the present,,which
which is plain and seldom so large as sixpence, they may.,On the Igth, Gemaldin Muslin being appointed governor of.Syndu, visited the ambassador, accompanied by two of his sons and two gentlemen, with' .a train of a hundred servants; he staid to dine, and eat of some dishes dressed purposely for him by a Moorish cook ; however, he privately desired that his excellency would send him four or five sorts of baked meats done after the Christian fashion which had caught his attention ; it waa ac accordingly done, and he ate them at home without witness. At his departure, he invited his excel lency to Syndu, assured him of his readiness to do him every good office, and according to custom, accepted Come trifling presentation the 20th, it being row the rainy feafo:i called the Elephant, there was a n'ore heavy slower than had been seen for some )ears, threatening the whole town with destruction; the inhabitants fled to the hills, and a pond, in the neighbourhood of which flood the ambassador's. house, built only of mud walls raised in a low marly soil, overflowed is boundaries, and broke down one of its banks; so that his dwelling would have certainly been washed from its foundation, and all his goods spoiled, had there not been a channel made by the Mogul's order to divert the course of the flood another way. Thus Sir Thomas tells us, that du ring his slay in this climate, he had scarcely one happy day; being affirmed either with fires, flood,. florid, heat, and cold, having no temperate weather, and every plague in extreme. About this time, the Dutch obtained leave to trade at Surat for a little time, but conditionally that they should be ready to decamp at very short warning. On the 29gh, the Mogul went to hunt the wild boar, and killed one of an extraordinary size wither 3 his
his own hand, which he sent as a present to his el ceilency; desiring him-to eat of it, and be merry only to let him have the tusks, on account of thei bigness. Soon after this occurrence, his excelled understood that the Mogul intended to remove t Mundo, a castle not far from Brampore, that he might be near to support his son sultan Corone who was but ill beloved, in the principal command at Decan, with, which he had lately inverted him, contrary to the content and inclination of moist the nobility chap. IV. ?e b i'rh-dac cf tile Mogul celebrated with vqlv fj.,kemnity: the Mogul weighed in a pair cf Jails elephants distinguished by rank and quality; tie ambbaojadr lent for to court out of his bed: the Mogul drinks with, and makes him a rich present: the meanness of bis' noabes: the governor of Anna dabat comes to court in pilgrim's weeds, and is will received: prince Crone appointed general against the People of Decan, who send ambassadors to court, ts divert the Jfarm.,H E Mogul's birth-day beingthe 2d septem. ber, was celebrated with great magnificence: it was ushered in with his being weighed in a pair of scales against a few jewels, gold, silver, rich stuffs, butter, rice, fruits, and other things, which were afterwards distributed among the brains or priests; the Mogul had given particular, orders for Sir Thomas to be invited, but by a mistake of Afaph Clan's messenger, he was not admitted till this cec ceremony was over, at which neglect his majesty was very angry, and publickly chid his favourite for it. There was a very fine Show of elephants, which,tese
were divided into different tribes, some of;.them being lord elephants, richly ornamented with gold and silver furniture; and the chief of them, which was wonderfully large, having a breast plate and forehead piece of gold sumptuously studded with rubies and emeralds: each of these had several flags and curious streamers waving round them, and was attended by eight or ten other elephants covered with gold and silver tissue; they all bowed as they passed before the Mogul; and the keeper of each made Come presents, this being a principal part of the diversion of the day about ten o'clock the same night, the ambassador being abed, received an invitation from the Mogul, who desired to see him instantly, and a very curious piaure that he had; which his ma jetyv promised to get copied; the ambassador arose and followed the messenger to court, where he found the Mogul fitting cross-legged on a throne, finely set off with all sorts of jewels, in a most magnificent dress: before him was a gold table;. on which were laid several curiosities of great value, confining bs gold, silver, &c. adorned with jewels of the most superb lustres there also flood near him several flagons of wines of different sorts, which he (bared among his nobility in wait ing, who made a most splendid appearance, and drank pretty freely.,'The ambassador brought with him two pictures, and one of them which represented a very beautiful woman, and was highly finished, the Mogul seemed very desirous of having; while-the ambassador who regarded it much, because of the lady it represented, was loth to part with it; but at length seeing that his majesty coveted it so much, he consented to make him an offering of'it, which the Mogul thankfully received; and assured him,. that he could scarcely believe it was ever. drawn 4. from,
from the-life, but the effect of some brilliant fancy, for he had never seen any woman who could be ses in condition with it; and on the ambassador', answering upon his honour, that a friend of his fat for it, whom he sincerely esteemed, the Mo. gul replied that he would get five copies of it, and if among them he could flea the original when intermixed, he should have it again after this discourse, heobfe;ved to his excellency that it was his birth-day, on which all his friends and subjects made merry; desiring to know whether he would drink with him: and the ambassador. accommodating himself in every thing to his desires, having first drank himself, he sent him a golden cup of about twenty ounces weight, richly adorned with rubies and turquoises, as was also the cover of it, and a dis. wher;cC it was set, all of curious workmanship; it was full of very strong wine, which took away his excellency's breath and' made hie sneeze, whereat the Mogul laughed, but told h;m he was at liberty to drink just what he pleated. He ordered him at the same time to send the cup, dish, and cover to his own home, as a mark of esteem; for which his excellency thanked him after the English fashion, nor would he touch the ground with his head, though urged thereto by Afaph Clan. Then raisins, almonds, and sliced lemons, wreck presented to him on a gold plate; and his majesty inquired whether he had' been neri over the boar, how he Lad dressed it, and what he had dark with it.,He afterwards threw a number of new roupies among the people below, and scattered about the throne sone pieces of gold and silver shaped like al minds; for w ici. all the noblemen in waiting scrambled, except he who had been lately king of Candabar, Afaph Clan, the Mogul's soon, two other old gentlemen; and the ambassador: after this di-aversion,
version, hb distributed golden father and, girds among his writers and musicians; and having thus divided his time between toying and drinking, being now near drunk, he fell fait asleep, where upon every one departed, the feast being ended for six or seven months, all Sir-thomas's time was engrossed in soliciting the great feal to be put to the articles he had drawn up,. and presented,. for the regulation of commerce,. but ineffectually; for Afaph Chap, on whom he prin finally relied, only dallied with him, wherefore he applied to the prince, from whose secretary he received an order relative to the affairs of the com any, that was very satisfactory; and where any of the articles admitted an explanation in the least ambiguous, they were clearly stated in a letter to the governor of Surat.,About this time, Abdalla Clan, governor of Amaduhat, came to court to answer some accusations of his having despised, in many penances, the king's authority: he was one of the greatest men in all India, and it was, at first, thought he would have declined answering them; but sultan Corone had induced him to it, by promising to. flared by him, and he kept his word; for he was ambitious of securing to himself the friendship of so important a personage. He had travelled in pilgrim's weeds sixty miles on foot, to stew his humility; however, he had two thousand horse attending his motions, one day's journey behind him.,On the both of October, he was brought set tered to the Jarucho, where the Mogul hears corm plaints, and views the public sports; his turban had been, for some time,. pulled over his eyes, that his majesty's might be the first face he should see at court; he made the usual reverence in the most suppliant manner, as loon as he appeared it the presence; and' after a very short examinations 5 he
he was assured of his malter's forgiveness, his iron! were removed, and he was presented with a en vest of gold tissue, and a turban and girdle tc match it.,The great general Chan-Channa not having 'succeeded in the war of Decan, the prince Corone imagining he could procure to himself great ho. your on that quarter, sollicited, and was ap. pointed to that command, which the other refused to surrender, thereby mortifying extremely the am. ambition of the prince; however, the Mogul, who did not chuse to quarrel with Chan-Channa, acquiesced in his refusal, confirming him in his command, and informing one of his kinswoman who was in the seraglio, that he would send him a. letter and a . es in token of reconciliation; but she answered, that she w.,s persuaded he would receive neither, for fear of some mischievous design, knowing hi majesty had twice before endeavoured to effe&his death by poison: this insinuation irritated the Mo. gul so much, that he again changed his resolution-determined upon sending prince Corone to super. fete him, and even to support him in person with an auxiliary army this resolution reached the ears of, and gave some uneasiness to Chan-Channa, who, to avert the for, prevailed on the Decanians, by whom he was well esteemed, to send ambassadors to court, to sue for peace, before the Mogul and the prince set out. They accordingly went thither, with tome fine horses richly caparisoned, by way of present-bur the Mogul, who was greatly irritated, refused to hear of them, and referred them to his son, at whose inclination he left it to make either peace ot war; while the haughty Corone, conceited of his power, and ambitious, even to a proverb, refused all terms, though very advantageous ones were of.,serel
served, and declared he-would treat no where but in, the-field.,Although the Mogul was so partial in the cause of' Corone he never designed any other but. his eldest son, Corforone,, who was kept in prison by the influence of party, for his successor,. it is. certain that the latter was universally esteemed, and; that the former had scarcely any man's-love or re gard ,- CHAP. V. Reason of sultan Corforone's confinement: h's life in,,great danger; but preserved by the fidelity of his keeper, who is at lai forced to give him up : several attempts upn his life: be is proceed by his, father fJeetiy Four English hips arrive at Su rat: peace proposed to tie Portuguese. at Goa. The Persian ambassador makes a splendid entry into: Ar djiner-e. E W histories are pregnant with more matter. F of entertainment than the reign of Ezbar Â·ha, father to him who was Mogul during Sir Thomas Rowe's embassy, nor was even the time of the son's having sat on the throne of India. without amusement; but as a recapitulation of such incidents would be unfit for this place, as foreign to the sub sect in hand, we shall content ourselves with one narration that'abounds with interesting particulars,, and flews that when the mildness of a sovereign gives too much way to faction, it will push its. info hence to the most unjustifiable lengths ,Corforone, who had been once engaged unwillingly in an insurrection against his father, being,, as we before observed, universally eleemned, tho' [till kept in confinement, by the intrigues of Co rone, Normahal, Afaph Clan, and his fathers 6 Etirt;an
3 tian Poulet, who acted convulsively forster own mutual support, was never in more danger of his life than at a time when-normal used all the artifice of which she was mistress, to have him delivered to the care of his brother Corone, who, she affirmed from the ties of kn. died, would be very careful of his safety, tho' in reality their intention was to take him off by poi. son. By there means they would not only have removed a powerful enemy, whose just vengeance they had reason one day to fear, but also clear their way for Corone to mount the throne of In. dia at his father's death: all her subtile arguments were ineffectual; the Mogul paid them very little. mention, until being near drunk and weary wish being teized, he desired them to do what they-would with Corforone, and fell fast asleep upon this permission, Afaph Clan came the same night with a guard to the place of Corforpne's con. finement, and, in the name of the prince Corone, de. handed him of the Rajah Afoot Annarah, to whose culfdy the Mogul had committed him; buttons howell nobleman answered, that " he had received " his prisoner from his majesty, and to him only " would he surrender him;" so that their chert v-as, for this time, entirely disconcerted: next morning the Rajah waited on his sovereign, who approved of his conduct, bidding him always austin the same manner, in the like care, and he might. pend on hi protection. After this attempt; (prone's party stirred not for tome time in the affair, till he Vas setting out on his Decan expedition, having de gained the ambassadors, till he arrived on the from tiers of that kingdom, where he proposed togive them a categorical answer; being afraid that if Corforone was left, during his absence, in the hands of Annarah, the, Mogul and .he might be reconciled, and the ruin of their party thereby founded. Corne before his departure, follicited,his
r - 1.- ~ ~ j~I i,C Ã³~~'e~tan LA' Admits
majesty. so vehemently to have the care of him, under pretence that the people of Decan would be the more intimidated by having a prince so very much favoured, Cent against them, that Annarah was dismissed from his .charge, and Cor forone delivered up to Afaph Clan, attended by two hundred horse belonging to Corone.,The consequence of this shep was a general murmur all ranks of people were enraged at the weak ness of the Mogul, the ambition of Corone, and the insolence of his partizans: the whole seraglio was in an uproar, and the ladies refused the visit of Normahal, who was sent to appease them; every one looked upon Corforone as already sacrificed, and his hard fate was the topic of general lamentation which was increased by a report soon after spread about, implying that six of the prince Corone's domestics had endeavoured to enter Cor forone's prison in the night, and to murder him; but the porter not being in the secret, refused to admit them tho' the Mogul had gratified his ambitious son, Corone, with delivering his brother to the care of him and his party, he kept a watchful eye over their conduct, being determined not to countenance the least indignity'that might be offered him: and having been informed by his spies, that Afaph Clan had one day rudely pressed upon his privacy, and treated him with some disrespect, he took an opportunity. of reprimanding him for it in public with great austerity, telling him, " he " had not put his ion under his care for his de " ftru&ion; and though he had gratified Corone ' with the keeping of.hisbrother, it was not be "cause he loved him less ;" and he ended his les son with observing to him, " that if he heard "any more of his insolence to Corforone, he " should bow his neck beneath his feet, and be," trampled
trampled by him into duff." This seemed to be the prelude of this prince's release,. which hap, opened-shortly afternoon the 13th of October,. Sir Thomas was ho. poured by the Mogul, just then returned from the chace, with a wild pig, by way of present; and in the evening he attended his levee, with an account of four English fhipsbeing arrived atSurat, and was presently asked what presents they had brought for the court, to which question Sir Thomas could make no direct answer; however, he obtained an order for having every thing that was consigned to him, conveyed to town, without being liable to custom. house duty or search:. at the famine time, it being requested of his excellency, he promised to pro. cure two gunners for disservice of Corone, inthe Decanter from the fleet, which in its voyage had fought with. and burned a Portuguese flip; whereupon the ambassador proposed articles of peace to the viceroy of Goa, by the hands of a Portuguese jesuit the same day prince Corone was visited by Ab. della Clan, attended by twenty musicians, such as drummers, &c. on horseback, fifty persons carrying white streamers, forty targeteers in splendid live ries, and two hundred horsemen well mounted, and gallantly accoutred in velvets and tissue; his present was a black Arabian horse, its furniture flowered with gold and adorned with jewels; in return, he received the usual gifts, a. turban, a veil and a girdle the entry of Mahomet Raze Beg-the new Per. shan ambassador, was made on the igth of October about noon. He was attended by fifty servants well mounted; their liveries being cloth of gold, with bows, quivers, and targets, very richly ornament. hed; besides forty men armed with guns, and two hundred foot, who guarded the baggage: he was received 3
received without the town by a sort of usher, a man of no consequence, whose business it is to re clive strangers, and a-hundred elephants gayly ornamented, conducted by music. He was intro duce to the presence in the durbar, towards eve, king, passing through all the usual ceremonies, such as prostrating himself on the ground, and touching it with .the top of his head. After which. he :de livered his master's letter, which the Mogul re civet, inclining his body a little, and asking how his brother did, (meaning the king of Persia) with out giving him any other title; after which ceremony the ambassador was ordered to retire among the seventh rank of the king's attendants, which was but a sorry situation for an ambassador. He was attended by nine led horses in very sumptuous trappings; on his approaching the court, a firing of very beautiful pearls, rubies and emeralds, was wound not only about his turban, but also about three golden pipes, wherewith it was ornamented, instead of feathers: his presents confined of twenty seven Persian and Arabian horses, nine large mules, (nine is a sort of sacred number among these people) seven camels laden with velvet, one rich cabinet, forty muskets, five clocks, twenty one camels laden with unadulterated wine jus as it had been pressed from the grape; fourteen with diflilled-fweet waters, seven with rose water, seven daggers nobly adorned with jewels, five swords in the same table, seven beautiful Venetian glasses, one camel laden with Persian cloth of gold, eight silk carpets, two chess of Persian arras, and two rich suits of Venetian velvet flowered with gold for hangings, &c. In return he was rewarded with a turban, a vest, and a girdle. A jesuit who was present at his re caption and that of the English ambassador, and was well versed in the language of the place, ob served, that neither the Mogul's reception of him-was
was Co cordial and polite, as his behaviour to Si Thomas; nor were his expressions of kindness to. wards the king of Persia near so respectful, as thos he had used when the king of England was in the cafe,Ocaober the 20th, his excellency obtained from the prince an order for having the presents, and whatever else belonged to them, forwarded with out molestation from Surat; at the same time his highness taking a liking to a feather which the Eng. lish ambassador wore in his hat, desired to have it; and though the ambassador observed it was un. worthy of his acceptance, he would have it, and more of the same nature if they could be goth accordingly, the ensuing day, his excellency set him several others of various colours.,In the evening the Persian ambassador delivered his presents at the durbar, with vast servility, and played a thousand antic tricks by way of ceremony; feeming'in rapture when spoke to by the Moguls H A P. VI. Drinking, except in certain cases, severely pun:&.d it,India : thieves sold for slaves: prince Corone di. parts from court, rs does the great ,mogul, after certain jiperjItioas c remonics : the procession j his equipage described: fulham Corforone is tf large: zte camp rad royal quarters very grand: Sir T7o.rzas vifitsfulan CGrrforcne. O N the 24th, the Mogul removed to HavarGe.,mal, where the Persian minister ate with the nobility, in his presence; and on the 25th return' ed to court, where an ugly accident happened, from tome persons who mentioned unadvifedlythe drunken frolics of the preceding night; and spoke of tome of the nobility who had sipped wine,prettJ
pretty freely, which it is a crime to do without the monarch's leave; and to refuse. that leave is also anr offence; for which reason every man writes down the officer's name by whom he is helped with wine, in order that he may summon him as a witness in his behalf, twould it be requisite. The Mogul, who had been drunk, forgetting his own order, in quire of the officer who had administered the li quod, whether it had been by his command; which interrogation being answered by him falsely in the negative either out. of spite to some particular per son, or out of fear, a list was made of all who had been concerned in the debauch, some of whom were fined one, two, or three thousand 'roupies, ac cording to their 'fortune; others were so severely whipped with iron rods, that some of them died on the spot; the porters slaves being broken over the survives, they were, thus mangled and abused, spurned from the presence; and when they would have blamed the ambassador, the Mogul would not listen, saying he had ordered him a couple of goblets-of wine, but none to them. Tho' the Mogul himself often gets drunk, it is fe merely forbid by the laws of the land; and no man whose breath smells of wine, (the-porters examining every person carefully) is admitted to come before him; nay, if any one of his attendants is discovered to be by such means prevented appear in, in the presence when his duty requires its scarcely any thing will save him from a whipping. It being near the time of the king's departure, his excellency sent to Afaph Clan for-his carriages; he Mogul having ordered him to be enrolled for went camels, four carts, and two coaches, wherewith he supplied the English favors; who ould not otherwise procure conveniences for re moving their effect to Agra at any rate. On the 8th0, some boys being condemned to be sold as,slave-
Eaves for theft, two of them were offered to the ambassador,' whom he redeemed for ten pounds; this he confesses himself he did to make the Mogul have the better opinion of him, but-it don't ap pear that the monarch was ever made acquainted with his liberality however, he gave them their liberty, declaring that Christians never made slaves of their fellow creatures, but contributed as much as they could to their happiness that same day his excellency sent his compliments to the Persian ambassador, by his secretary, and offered to pay him a visit, provided he would return it; but the Persian answered, it was what be could not do without the permission of his master, which he would sollicit, and act accord ing to his instructions; observing .that nothing could ie h more f.;sef .than the ac acquaintance of Sir Thomas Rowe; which he was persuaded his master would allow him to cultivate november the gift, the Mogul being seated in the durbar, was waited upon by sultan Corone, who came to take his leave; his dress was silver tissue, covered-over with orient pearl and brilliant diamonds, that shone like another fun; he was at tended by six hundred elephants richly caparisoned, and about a thousand horse very splendidly. at tired; the Mogul embraced and kissed him very tenderly, giving him at his departure a sword in a golden (scabbard set with diamonds valued at a hundred thousand roupies, a dagger in the same taste said to be worth forty thousand, an elephant and two horses; their furniture-covered with gold and jewels, and a new coach made in imitation of that brought from England, in which the prince departed to his tents, which were about four miles distant; the principal nobility walked a foot on each side, and he was drove by the English coach man, into whose hat he put a handful of roupies,,perhapS
perhaps a hundred; he was followed by multitudes of people, among whom he scattered finally pieces of money the 2d being appointed for the Mogul's departure he appeared in the morning at the Jarucho window, fanned by two eunuchs, with feathers affixed to long poles; there he scattered many fa yours, and received several presents; what he gave was fixed to a little stick arid let down by a silken firing, and what was presented to him was pulled up by such another instrument, by the hands of a fat deformed wrinkled old woman, hung round with gewgaws like a pagoda. Two of his principal wives having made a hole thro' their gate, in order to gaze at the English ambassador, shewed part of their faces, appearing to have white skins, and very b1'lck airs richly aduorcil ;h wets. After having staid at the Jarucho a good while, the Mogul suddenly disappeared, and as he descended in a short limewater to go out, he was flopped by 'one man with a very unwieldy carp, and another with a dish of some white fluff, in which having dipped his finger and touched the fish, he then rubbed his forehead therewith; and this it seems is a ceremony used to bespeak good fortune.,At the foot of the flairs one of his attendants, girded on him his sword and buckler, adorned with rubies and diamonds, and another having furnished him with a bow and quiver of thirty ar rows, which had been one of the Persian ambassador presents, he went into a coach, niade so. like that given him by Sir Thomas Rowe, that it was only to be distinguished-by a Persian coverlet of velvet embroidered with-gold. This was the first carriage of the kind he had ever been in, and; with him were two eunuchs, whose (office was to. fan the flies from him with horse-tails fixed on gold staves, set with rubies: he was preceded by-drums,.
drums, trumpets, and other music, with mann people bearing such ensigns-of majesty as are pe. peculiar to the country, and there marched. under the moi sumptuous and glittering urbrellas.,Then came nine led horses, their furniture vary. oufly covered with diamonds-rubies, pearls, and emeralds, after there, three palanquins, or chain carried on mens shoulders; the carriage and feet of the principal of which were covered with plated good ornamented with precious stones, and covered with crimson velvet embroidered with pearl, the border of which was set with rubies and emeralds, and a fringe hung from it of ver large pearls to the depth of a foot; then followed a footman with a golden footstool adorned wide jewels, two palanquins covered and lined with got : ;e; the English coach in Which sat queen cr. mnahal to whom it was given; another coach with some of the young princes; twenty royal elephants for the Mogul's own use, not splendidly capari. stoned; and his wives followed at the distance of about half a mile behind him, each mounted upon her respective elephant, in a turret with a gold grate for her to peep through, over each was carried a canopy of silver tissue; of these there were fifty, making the molt magnificent appearance his majesty's body dress, this day, was clothes gold without sleeves, with a rich girdle, in which he had tucked a pair of English gloves, his hands being bare; on every finger was seen a ring o great value, and from his crisis all up his arms, he wore rows of diamonds enough to havedazlI an eagle; the feet of his buskins were ha"? pointed, turning out, embroidered with pearl and on his head he wore a very beautiful turban with a plume, confiding of a few long heron sea tiers; on one side of it was a ruby unset as lag as a walnut, on the other a rough diamond of equa,magnituda'
magnitude and in the middle a curious emerald based like a heart; he had three rows of extraordinary large pearl about his neck, and his raff of authority was wreathed with pearls, diamonds and rubies, variously and elegantly disposed. As he passed by the door of the house in which his eldest son was detained prisoner, he flopped the coach, and ordered him to be brought forth.,A general satisfaction seemed diffused among the people:, as soon as sultan Corforone made his appearance; he had a sword and a buckler, but his beard was grown to his waist, in token of his having been in disgrace: the king ordered him to mount one of his elephants, and ride next to him, to the joy of the multitude, which burst forth in the loudest acclamations; while he scattered mo ney every where around, his father having given him a thousand replies for that purpose and now the way to the Mogul's tents was lined with elephants to the amount of three hun died, every one bearing a turret, in the front of which was a piece of cannon, and behind it sat the gunner holding a ball to charge it with, of the size of those used in tennis play; at each corner of the turret waved a banner of yellow tasty; and the duff along the road was laid by footmen who poured water from leathern bags. Neither man nor horse, except those particularly appointed to attend, were allowed to come within two furlongs of the Mogul's coach sir Thomas Rowe was particularly repeated by the Mogul, when he entered his tent; for per ceiling his excellency standing amongst the nobility in a line through which he passed, his majesty laid his hand on his break, and inclined his body, whereas to the Persian representative he only nod ded. When he had washed in public, he retired, as did each nobleman to his respective tent. The,tents
tents were of different colours, making a most mag. munificent and beautiful appearance, covering the whole-vale, inclosed in the most regular manner; and 'the baggage so disposed as not to give the least idea of confusion the royal tent took up about the space of half an English mile; it was formed like a sort with angles, bulwarks, and curtains of red arras; the gates were supported by brazen pillars, and with in was a mother of pearl throne, raised on two pillars of earth, with rich carpeting beneath; a canopy of gold tissue over it, and above all a very high tent, with a golden nob on the polecat the distance of five miles from this place was prince Corforone's tent, whither Sir Thomas Rowe went to visit and compliment him, as well as to settle some business relating to certain sums of money due to the English. He was seated on a throne plated with silver and inlaid with gold flowers; over his head was a square canopy sup. ported by four pillars covered with silver, and his sword, buckler, lance, bows and arrows were laid on a table within his reach; his countenance was very equal, not seeming to respect any one person round him more partially than another, but rather to have a contempt, founded upon pride, for all he read two letters which were 'given him Handing, and by his inattention to some addresses made him, and his unapt answers to others, he was suspected of being in love: perhaps Normahal, who hid visited him in the English coach the pre ceding day with a present of a cloke, covered with rubies, pearls and diamonds, had carried away his heart. On the 9=h, being about to remove, he sent for the English ambassador to come to-him and the messenger raved of his highness's kindness to him, and the great favours he intended him a report which was also confirmed by a Dutchman,Am 1,
who was his jeweller: this intimation induced his excellency to take horse and come to him immediately but after waiting till it was night, the prince passed him, and ordered a servant to tell him he would confer with him in the Guzelcane in about half an hour: notwithstanding which promise, the ambassador waited for him above an hour; when being out of all patience at such trifling, after leaving a very sharp message with his attendants, his excel lency went to take horse; but before' he could reach it, several people were dispatched to bring him back.,As soon as the ambassador appeared, prince Cor. forone received him very cordially, excused him self for forgetting him, and reprimanded: his officers he was playing at cards, and compliments past, he (hewed his excellency his hand, and ad vised with him about his game. Soon after, he presented him with a gaudy robe of gold tissue, that he himself had worn some time; cast cloaths seem an odd present to an ambassador, but, in this country, such a gift is a-mark-of peculiar favour: after this robe was put on him, and some little business adjusted, his excellency was .dismissed from the audience with a low bow; but he complains in his journal, that he paid double the value of the present in what he gave his highness's attendants, who pressed about him for that purpose molt flame fully. I fancy by the warmth with which Sir Thomas speaks of this scandalous practice, it was not then of such prevalence in England as it is now; for the height to which it has for some time been carried in these kingdoms, is a reflection upon our politeness and manners; which the attention of our people of fashion ought to be awakened to remove, not only injustice to themselves in particular, but to the nation in generals H A P.
C H A P. VII. Sir Thomas its out to follow the camp: manner if,Mogurs encampment. described: the Mogul's engage ments on this route : his great charity and humnilil fir Tbcmars lies his baggage, and the people d treed by bad reads. O N the i6th, all the huts, which are call,Lefkars, 'at Ardfmere, were set on fireto oblige the people to-follow the camp, which now in motion; and the English and Persian am ambassadors not finding it easy, though they had wa rants to impress them, to get either camels or can for removing their equipage, were much exposed thieves who swarmed about the camp. On th 20th, sir Thomas Rowe finding he could only upon the royal mandat, eight camels, so very poor as to be scarcely fit for service, was forced to bu others; and then he continued his march on t gift of December: in pain through a place call Ramfor, they saw the bodies of an hundred men ex posed naked in the high way, who had been execute for robbing.,On the 6th and 7th' the Mogul quartered at To. dal, a well-built town, which had formerly belong ed to a Raja Afoot; it was situated at the foot o a rock, and had had rome good works of hewn son about it: on the one side of it was a grove, pleasant ly laid out in walks and alleys, planted with man goes, tamarinds, and various other fruits; and in. interspersed with fountains, grottos, summer-houses, alcoves, and little Pagan temples, curiously carved and ornamented i but it seemed as if it had been ne gleted; tho', under proper regulations, indifpu. table one of the most charming spots 'in the world.,The
The camp, which was generally pitched in four hours, presented a scene qs prodigious grandeur, as well as order: it engroflre a compass of twenty English miles; every man, from the first Raja ti the poorest artizan, knowing in what situation; and at what distance from the sovereign's quarters to pitch his tent: there being regular streets and shops containing all, necessaries; all which, as well as their owners, were restricted to the defiance of musket-shot from him; nor was any man admitted whose name was not known. The evening was commonly spent in hunting or in hawking, upon pools a mile or two over, in little boats, which were carried in carts for that purpose. The Mogul appeared every morning as at the Jarruco, but did'no bufinefstill night at the Guzelcan; and then twas ten to one his majesty did not get drunk, as was the case one evening that Sir Thomas meant to address him upon some important matters; so that, during this route, business seemed to be but little regarded:,On the 18th of December, his excellency paid the Mogul a visit, and found him surf returned from hunting, with variety of game lying before him;'the first choice of which he insisted on the ambassador's making, and distributed the remain der among his noble attendants. Near bim, at the foot of his throne, sat an old beggar man, a li betty that the heir to the crown would scarcely have dared to take, with whom his majesty talked very familiarly near an hour, though his ashes and frouzy rags would have turned a squeamish stomach; but charity is strongly enforced by the religion that is here professed. From this wretch his majesty ac accepted a cake, folded in a rag, kneaded by his dirty hands, the grain very coarse, and mixed with ashes which adhered to it from the fire, on which it had rather been burned than baked he broke and,VOL. III. L ate
ate a piece of it; then, wrapping it up in the same clout, put it into the' poor man's bosom, and pour. ed an hundred rupees into his lap, some of which falling on the ground, he'fooped to gather them up.,A collation being served up, he shared it with the beggar; and when he was about to quit him, embraced him in his arms, though not the mos cleanly figure, and called-him father, laying his hand three times on his heart. This old beggar was attended by a young patch who-shared his good cheer.,On the 23d, the Mogul turned off towards Man dea, instead of going, as was expected, to the city of Rantepoor; this route, it was'fuppofed, he took to avoid the plague which was suffered' to lurk thereabouts. The 26th the road proved intricate, fatiguing and rugged, lying through thick woods, and over craggy mountains, which tired many peo. pie, destroyed rome camels, delayed the army, and parted others from their baggage, particularly the Englifl ambassador, who lost his tent and servants; but found them again at night. After this march his majesty reaped two days; for many camels and car ridges, with his women and equipage, were delay ed on the road, through weariness and want of water: the Mogul himself had been obliged to climb over rocks that scarce any one else would have ventured to attempt, mounted on a small elephant that was very sure-footed, as indeed they all are, and travel well.,On the gift of January, i615, the Englifl ambassador complained to Afaph Clan of some grievances under which the Englifl laboured at Surat, in some measure countenanced by the prince, whom the minister persuaded his excellency to visit, and to obtain a recommendatory letter from the Mogul to him, relating to the affair of the Englifl; ob-serving,
serving, that he had as good go from Mandoa, whither .it was plain the Mogul bent his course, to Brampore, .the prince's residence, as to waste so much rime (it being but eight days journey) in the field sat noon, the same day, Sir Thomas Rowe paid ,a visit to the Persian representative, who received him with great complacency, and assured him he would, to the utnmor of his power, promote the fettling a commerce between England and Persia Here his excellency was entertained with a banquet of very indifferent fruit; however, there was something to agreeable in the Persian's manners, that he was easily inclined .to overlook the dtfeQ-the Persian was very facetious, and railed freely at all the Mo gul's court, and the (shuffling behaviour of his people; he offered to do Sir Thomas any service he could, and insisted o finis accepting a horse well caparisoned; which on the other's strenuously re fusing, he would have given him nine pieces of superfine Persian silk, and nine bottles of the richest wine, as marks of his friendship; but his excellency could not be induced to take any of them by any means; but in return made an offer of the sword he wore, which was a very fine one, and had at grafted the Persian's eye, who nevertheless refused it, though some hours after he recanted, and desired to have the present. At night his excellency visited - the Mogul, and found him deeply engaged in serious conversation, and reading over letters with an old crippled gentleman, whom at his departure he very lovingly embraced, and presented with five thousand roupies.,From this period to the isti nothing material hap opened, the camp still continuing in motion; but on the 8th they found themselves involved in a very narrow troublesome pass, cut between two mountains, in which they were forced to leave their baggage 2 and
and cattle in great distress, and the Englifl abbas. factor lodged under a tree that Night till his tent came up. The country here was full of robbers; nor were the inhabitants any great friends to the Mogul, it having been but lately reduced to his obedience: they fled to the hills, but some of them were brought back, chained together two and two, by the necks. The king, at his departure, order. ed the principal town to be burned; and left be. hind him a nobleman attended by some horse, with orders to rebuild and repeople it better than before; which mixture of severity and generosity he thought might teach them to be more civil for the future: however, some of the fugitives out of revenge followed the camp,' at a distance, plunder. ing and killing the stragglers that fell in their way.,On the 22d, the Englifl ambassador standing in sight of a chamber wherein the Mogul was, ac. companied only by Timon Poulet his father-in-law, and Afaph Clan, was invited to enter: the Mogul was very merry with him, bidding him draw near, and talk to him without an interpreter; which his excellency made a shift to do, though not in the choicest Persian; however, he spoke to make him. self understood, and his majesty laugh, though their discourse had not much sense or solidity. Favours of this sort made the great men very respectful to him.,CHAP,
CH A P. VIII. he people of D. canteen resolved tonight, and there wailing party at court dissuade the Mogulfrom pro feeding against them, but to no purpose: a pleasant Jftiy of a king of Caileada: sultan Corone flops the English presents; but they are released by the Mo gtdl, who shews a fife of religion his liquor: an affront put on the ambassador. N the mean time it was found that the army of Decan did not retire as was expected, but wait ed on their frontiers with fifty thousand horse, de termined to fight the Mogul there; for which pur pre they had Tent off their baggage that they might not be encumbered: and sultan Corone had as yet proceeded no farther than Mendoza, seeming to fear both Clean Canna and the enemy: this circum fiance induced Afaph Clan and Normahal endeavour to persuade their monarch to turn the ex petition into a hunting journey; for the mon arch of the east often go to hunt with as much force, grandeur and expence, as they manifest when they march to war; but he despised the subterfuge, declaring he would persist in his first resolution; and for that purpose reinforced his son's army with fresh troops. Water and provisions began now to grow very scanty in camp, a dearth which fell heavy on strangers, the soldiery, and the poor; for the M 'gul was insensible of it and the Clans were supplied by their respective people.,On the 3d of February, Sir Thomas Rowe and the sultan Corforone met by chance under a great tree, whither both happened to retire to avoid the heat, and enjoy the benefit of the shade; he ap feared chearful, courteous, and affable, converted freely, and was surprised when told of the Eng-,L 3 lith
lift people and an English ambassador, things he had never heard of; whence his ignorance of court matters was very evident.,On the 6th, they encamped at a pleasant place called Calieada, formerly the residence of the kings of Mandoa, of one of whom it is told, that be. ing used to drink excessively, he one night in his cups dropt into the neighbouring river, and would have been drowned but for the fidelity of a save, who leaping in, caught him by the hair of the head, his strength being just exhausted, and drag. get him to the shore. Some time after his recovery being told who saved him, he called for the slave, and ordered his hands to be chopped off in his presence; saying, it was rather too mild a punishment for the wretch, who dared to lift his hands.to the head of his sovereign: but it happen. ed same time after, that sitting in the same place, in the same condition, attended by only one of his wives, he slipped in again, and was really drowned, though The might with ease have saved him, an of. face which fie said she chose to decline, lest he should have ordered her hands also to be cut off.,On the filth, the Mogul rode to Egan, to con verse with a devise living on a hill near that place, reported to be three hundred years old: the same day Sir Thomas Rowe received advice from Surat, that the presents from thence, which had been brought hither by the shipping, and of which his excellency had been so long in expectation, were flopped on the road by Corone, who hoped to com pel,the conductors, in vain, to open them; and that he had, at the-fame time, sent word to his fa ther, that he had delayed some merchant's goods, without mentioning their being presents, of which he craved leave to chuse what he liked. This per fide incensed his excellency very much; and though,he
he had some fears of incensing Afaph Chan,` with whom he did; not chuse to quarrel, he at last de termined, without. soliciting, his introduction, to take his new.interpretdr, a Greek by birth, and ride out to meet.the Mogul on his visit to the der vise.,He met that monarch, mounted on his elephant, who halted, seeing him make signs to speak, and prevented him, saying, " I suppose you cOme to ' complain;. but be not uneasy , Iguefa that,the ' goods my ton has stopt belonged: to you, ad " that among them were the. presents designed for " me; but, be satisfied; he shall not open them: " at night Swill send, him an order to let them ' proceed on the journey." His excellency accordingly attended him at night at the Guzelcan, where thei Mogul assured him he had already, dispatched commands relative to the goods to Corone-in consequence of which he would not dare to meddle with or detain them. But the embassador insisting on satisfaction for the affront put upon.him by detaining them, the Mo gul told him positively, he must pardon it, and his ion should not do. so again wherefore 'he was forced to be content, because he could not help him self; and had he said much more, he had perhaps made Afaph Clan his enerhy.,After affairs were thus fettled, his majesty en tered into a familiar dispute with his excellency, concerning the laws-of Moses, Christ, and Malo' met, mellowing the argument with old wine; and declaring that his disposition led him to-treat with equal mildness Christians, Jews-and Mohammedan as long as they continued obedient to him, and did not seek to disturb the peace of his domi nions. In short, the good man spoke so feelingly of the spirit of religion, and imbibed so cordially the spirit of the wine, that both conjun&ively,L 4 distilled
distilled through his eyes ; and he wept to think that so few people, out of the many who professed them. selves followers of these great prophets-adhered li. really to the excellent rules they had laid down: and at lash, his majesty breaking his discourse into short sentences, fell fas asleep, and concluded his firman with a drunken nap-As his excellency might be pretty certain of hay. ing lost all his interest with the prince Corone, by having complained of him, he resolved to ended. Your to make the father as much his friend as he possibly could: in the mean time the presents, which the favors had detained at Surat four months long. er than they ought to have done, without any rea. son, being arrived at court, had been privately opened by the Mogul's own order, who. had taken out whatever he liked best; the ambassador made a violent complaint of this breach of privilege, whereby all his presents, some of which were de. signed for the prince, and some for Normahal, be. sides those intended for his majesty, were jumbled together, and perhaps spoiled; besides, he observed that it was an insult the king his maker could not easily be wrought upon to forgive; nor did he know in what manner to acquaint him with the affront the Mogul received him with great condescend. lion, and attended patiently to his complaint; to which he answered, that he would satisfy the king of England, if he thought himself disrespect by this procedure; that it was no more than fair that be should have his choice of the presents; and he was Cure the prince and Normahal would think it r-o'difhonour to be served after him; that for his part he liked what he had seen very well; and tho' it was usual never to approach him for audience with out a gift, he would hereafter excuse that ceremony in Sir Thomas, and redress his complaints, as wel 'argive
give him audience and satisfaction, though he came empty-handed; concluding his discourse with de firing the ambassador not to be offended with him; and the other remaining silent, when he had finish ed, he pressed him to speak, and desired to know if he was satisfied: to which question at last he was obliged to answer, He mus be satisfied if his. ma jest was contented.,Amnng other curiosities there was a picture re. presenting a Venus leading a black satyr by the nose, which seemed to give him some offence, he believing it was intended as a reflexion upon the AfiTaic attachment to women: he asked severaL people what they thought of it; but most answer ed with Sir Thomas Rowe, they believed it to be only the painter's fancy: however, he kept it; and desired Sir Thomas, to get him a large hose, a brace of Irish greyhounds, and some couples of other sporting dogs for breed ; a request with which he promised to comply, and if they should chance to die on (shipboard, he said he would order their skins to be stuffed and brought him, that he might he allured of his respect for his majesty's commands. Then he pressed a grant of certain commercial privileges together with the' payment of a debt, in all which demands he was assured he should be fa wished; and the Mogul desiring to know what were the fittest presents for his brother the king of England, the embassador answered, Carpets; on which he promised to procure the most magnificent that could be bought. He afterwards pre seated Sir Thomas with half a buck, which he had killed himself, and the other was cut into pieces of about four pound weight each, which was in tended for his ninety's women, two of whom. ac accordingly came from the seraglio, with his third son, and each carried a piece away dangling in her handel 5 Before
Before his excellency was dismissed from his audience, the Mogul entreated him to procure hint a bow and quiver, a pair of rich embroidered bus. king, and a coat of mail for himself, all done by the most experienced workmen that England could boast, betides a pillow whereon to sleep; and Afaph Clan was ordered to give patterns of what was wanted.,C HAP. IX. ale Mtogtl and his court enter the 'city of Mantua: Walter very scar e here: the Norofe celebrated very o 'emil : the Persian ambassador fed ill and quits the covert : the lion a sacred beat : two Dutch ve. /ls kIfl: Sir Thomas is rudely used by the king of Candabar : great exactness of paying debts at tie .4Ioul's court. M j'A R C H the 3d they arrived at the city of,Mandoa; but the Mogul did not make his entry till the 6th, at a particular hour, said by the astrologers to be a lucky one. The place choses out by Sir Thomas's servants to encamp in was a. house on the top of a rising-ground, in a very good air, well enclosed within tone-walls, within which were also a temple and a tomb. There were two inconveniencies in the situation, one was its great distance from the royal quarters, amounting to two miles; and the other, a total want of water: however, a clan, who had taken possession of a well not far from it for his own use, allowed his excellency to draw away four loads of water per day. Vater was very scarce all about; the great men had possessed themselves of the springs, which were very few; so that those who had not great in terest were obliged to encamp in the open countryseat
attire or four leagues distance, acircurnftancewhich caused much confusion, but fell heavily on the poor.,On the 12th of March, it being the festival of the Norofe, or New Year, of which we have hereto fore taken some notice; Sir Thomas presented the Mogul with two knives, and six curious glasses, in the name of the company wherewith he seemed extremely well pleated ; and at the same time or tered, that whatever debts were owing to the go vernon Should be immediately paid. Over the throne, the magnificence of which we have before noticed, hung the portraits of king James I. and the queen of England, the countess of Somerset, and Salisbury of Sir Thomas Smith governor of the East India company, and of the wife of a private citizen of London. When Â£ir Thomas approached, his majesty ordered him to ascend the steps, and come near him i on his right-hand flood the Persian ambassador, and on his left the king of Cinnabar; near it was a scaffold whereon some female musicians exercised their talents. The roth of the same month his excellency presented to Afaph Clan a curious pair of gloves and a night-cap; the latter he kept, and desired little Spanish wine, which was sent him ; but the gloves he returned, as of no use in that countryside Thomas found it a hard talk about this time to remove some prejudices which the Mogul had harboured against the English; but with much labour prevailed: at the same time the great men looked upon his excellency with an evil eye, on ac count of his having complained of the injustice of sultan Corone, each looking upon him as an informer and fearing his turn might be next; for governments being all farms, the extortions practised by those who hold them are inconceivable the goth of April, the Persian ambassador left the court in a mood of discontent, for which heel 6 had
had reason; because, having given his majeN thirty very fine horses, he received in return three thousand crowns; which he justly resented, as seeming to set him on the footing of a dealer, and even in that light allowing him much less than the value of his commodities. His dissatisfaction was told to the Mogul, who immediately ordered an account to be drawn out, by way of debtor and creditor, on one side of which were named the Persian gifts, rated infinitely below their intrinsic worth, on the other those presents the Mogul had made in return, not omitting the slightest thing, as a melon or a pine-apple, all valued very highly: this, by order of the court, was laid before the ambassador, and an offer of the balance, which was on his side, tendered to him. Impatient of the indignity, and spurning the account, he feigned himself very ill, that he might not be at the trouble of taking leave of a court wherein his reception had been so very bad, and obtained permission to depart without ceremony. He privately sent a true slate of his affairs to Sir Thomas Rowe, by way of excuse for his not taking leave of him, which he could not do without being seen by Afaph Clan, and others who'cxpected the same compliment; and desired the messenger to assure him, he might de pend on his doing the belt offices he could for the Englifl at his master's courtesan the 12th of May, the Englifl ambassador obtained a grant, authorising him to hunt a lion, which, together with a wolf, had broken into his f.Jd and killed some of his sheep: he dared not to have attempted repelling this invasion, without the royal permission-for it is treason for any man but the sovereign to hunt the lion in this country june the 14th, a box of medicines, with a let ter, belonging to the Jesuits of Cambay, which had been flopped upon the road, was brought to court;,alpd
and the Mogul himself, after having curiously and meanly ordered the. letter to be read, and examin ed the box, in which he found nothing for his pur pose, commanded them to be restored to the fa tiers. .son the'30th of July came advice to court, that two Dutch lips laden with spice, china, silks, and other valuable goods, bound for the Red-sea, had been by revere weather forced upon the coast of Damam, after having vainly endeavoured to make Socotora, or some of the Arabian ports; where, after losing their mais, they were beaten to pieces on a sand-bank; however, the largest of them was enabled to save her men and some commodities the gift of August, Marre Russian king of Can debar visited Sir Thomas Rowe; and though he was handsomely entertained, begged a cask of wine before his departure, which was sent to him.,It was now reported that Afaph Clan and Nor mahal had some notion of allying themselves to' sultan Corforone, who had taken a house near the English ambassador: as for sultan Corone, he was a little in disgrace, having wedded a woman at Brampore, whom his father disliked; besides, he was soon expelled at court, to defend himself from an accusation preferred against him, of his having had some designs on the life of his brother Corforone.,On the ft of September, being the Mogul's birth day, there was a pavilion erected in a very elegant garden, not far from a square pond set round with trees; under the pavilion was fixed a pair of large scales of beaten gold, with silken .ropes and gold chains curiously set with small rubies and turquois es; in one scale the mogul himself was seated cross legged, covered from head to foot with jewels, and had about him some rubies as big as walnuts, and pearls fill larger in the opposite scale therefore
'were six different bales weighed-against him, which-were-aid to contain gold, silks, calicoes, spices, and other rich commodities: and, lazily, hee was opposed-to honey, corn, and butter;: the former of these, it was said, were to be distributed among the poor, and the latter were to be given for pro. visions for the Banians.,While his majesty was in the scale, he looked pleasantly at Sir Thomas Rowe, and seemed as if he intended to have spoken to him; but he was prevented by the want of an interpreter: it was laid he weighed that day equal to nine thousand roupees.,When this ceremony was over, he mounted his throne, round which sat the nobility on carpets, and'threw, as before, several barons of silver nuts, almonds, and other artificial fruit among them, for which they scrambled heartily; and he, perceiving that the English ambassador thou-ht it beneath him to stoop to imitate them, poured a bason of silver almonds into his cloak; which he had no sooner done than the courtiers fell upon his excellency, and almost tore his clcke off his back, endeavour ing to share with him in their matter's gift; how ever, he made shift to preserve as much of them as weighed ten or twelve crowns: they were all hollow, and so extremely' light, that there mus have gone a vat: number of them to make the va lue of one hundred pounds. The Mogul dedicated that night to caroline and drinking with his nobles, to which his excellency was invited; but he decl ned it, being ill of a flux, and knowing that if he went, nothing would excucf his drink ing.,September the 9th, the Mogul riding along the banks of the Darbadat to take the air, in his way passed by the English ambassador's house, who pre seated him with an Atlas neatly bound, telling hi,.,thai
that he made his majesty an offering of a sketch' of all that world of which he possessed so confider able a-part. The Mogul received it very :kindly, and thanked him by laying his hand upon. his breaks, as well as by words; and desired to know whether his excellency liked the fat wild boar of Goa, of which he would send him' some, hav. ing lately 'received several: the ambassador re plied, that any thing with which he pleased to honour him must be agreeable. Then the Mogul mounted his elephant, and having reconnoitred his excellency's quarters, wherewith reappeared well pleased, he took his leave; nor would he permit him to follow in his train, the road not being good but invited on his not stirring from home the I6th his excellency went to visit the king of Candabar, who refused to receive him without leave from Afaph Clan or Timon Poulet, which he sent word he would solicit at the durbar; but the ambassador replied, he might spare himself that trouble, for he would never attempt to incommode him against is the cutfom for the Persian merchants, as loon as they arrive in his territories, to submit the refusal of their commodities to the Mogul, who having taken what he likes, distributes the rest among his people; an account is then made out of what each man chutes, and an officer appointed for that purpose annexes a price; a copy of this disposal is given to the merchant, who calls at the houses of his debtors for their respective monies; if he is delayed, a certain person is lint with au authority to oblige them to pay it. T-h English traders not having aged according to this culrom, found it pretty difficult to recover the debts con traced with them by several persons; however, the Mogul was prevailed upon, by the address of Sir Thomas Rowe, to pardon this first omiflion,,which
which had its foundation in ignorance, and not in disrespect, and to exert his authority in behalf of ,the company, to oblige those who owed them any thing immediately to discharge the demand; but he made an agreement with Sir Thomas, that for the future he 'sould have the first view of the inventory of every English ship's lading that came into his dominions; promising, in that case, to see them paid for every thing that was sold; and to pay the deficiency out of his own pocket, provided an insolvent contract a debt with them.,A list of the names of the persons indebted to the company, and the manner of their contracting such debts, was now read over to the Mogul by Afaph Clan; after which orders were given to Ara. det Clan the lord seward of the houshold, and to the Cutwal or marshal to take filch measures as should procure from these people immediate satis faaion: but this order being neglected, Sir Thomas Rowe had prepared a petitionary complaint con. morning it; which at an audience a few days after, he was about to deliver to the Mogul, who would have made them repent it; but his drift being per civet by Afaph Clan, he went up to him before he had compleated it, begging him to desist, and assuring him that he Should have justice before the next morning min pursuance of which promise, the Cutwal and Aradet Clan, that very evening, went in search of several of the company's debtors, and satisfaction was soon after obtained from all such as could be found.,CHAP.
C HA P. X. Prince CoroIte.comes to court, and refuses a fit from Sir Thomas: an Indian ship has a narrow escape? from some EngliSh. pirates: Afaph Clan bribed to bcfi lend the English ; introduces the ambassador to Corne, and the company's affairs are thereby put in a thriving way: Afaph Clan quarrels with the prince: time Dutch envoys are but indifferently re. civet by the Mogul: end of Sir Thomas Rowe's account of his embassy. O N the 2d of October prince Corone came to O court, attended by a splendid train of noble men, and was received by his father with as much tenderness as if he had been an only son. All the great men who attended the Mogul, except Sir Thomas Rowe, whose health would not permit it, went out torment him on the road. The 6th, his excellency went to visit the princes but was told he must either come in the beginning of the morning, or say at the door till he came forth to court, which intimation Sir Thomas taking as an affront, expressed. his indignation to the messenger, and departed. In the evening he had an audience of the Mogul, who received him with his usual kindness; but the prince dissembling as if he did not see him, made no return to a bow of his ex excellency. His majesty asked for the inventory of such goods as were brought by the company's ships, desiring him also to name what privileges he expected for them, and assuring him of every in dulgence.,At the same time he observed, the queen-mother was obliged to them for having rescued from two English pirates, in the Red Sea, a flip belonging to her; the crews and passengers of which flip were loud in their praises of the kind usage and,hofpi-
hospitable behaviour of their preservers: however his majesty appeared surprised, and indeed not without some reason, that subjects of England should chuse thus openly to injure and disobey their king; but he was satisfied with being told, they were outlaws, liable to punishment as much as those daily executed in his majesty's dominions for robbery his majesty then enquired whether the 'hips had brought with them any pearls or jewels; ,to which interrogation his excellency answered in the negative, saying, they were much dearer in England than at Indian. At this audience the ambassador made a firm friend oÂ£Afaph Clan, by whispering him that he had something very curious for him; of which promise, before his departure, that finishes took care to remind him i but, before his excellency would entrust him with the knowledge of. what it was, he insisted on their squeezing thumbs, a wal of solemnly swearing in this country, and pro. missing not to betray him. This ceremony being over, his excellency told Afaph Clan, he had a pearl of immense value to dispose of, and to secure his friendship he had intended it for. him . but at the same time took notice, that he knew of what ill consequence it would be, if his majesty came to know there was any such thing of which he had not received intelligence, either by inventory or information. Afaph Clan expressed vas thanks for the favour, repeated his assurances of secrecy, and promised to give as much for it as any body, as well as to introducer Thomas to the prince; and not only make them friends, but also laid, he would himself defend him from any oppression the court or any courtiers might attempt to prairie on his excellency or his dependents: for he observed, that the Mogul himself was naturally insolent and treacherous; more especially to strangers, bein,,bound
bound by no ties but those of interest. He count. felled him also to secure the queen Normahal's friendship by a present.,Afaph Clan was necessitated to keep his promise, . for fear of being betrayed to his sovereign, an event which, though in a matter so trifling, might have proved of very fatal consequences to him; and in deed he kept his word every way; for he not only procured an order that the goods of the English company, designed for the ambassador, should come to court without being searched or detained, but also used his interest to-have a particular judge appointed to inspect and settle the company's affairs; besides, he himself took off many com modifies by wholesale, which must otherwise have been disposed of by retail in short, this trifling preference secured his friendship immoveable. It is certain, that at the Mogul's court, giving the refusal of a bargain is equal to a present: moreover, few people could be-more eat or immediate in their payments than Afaph Chan.,Thro' the means of this minister, on the I2th Sir Thomas had an audience of the prince; by whom he was well received having presented him with a gold-chain, the workmanship of China, on a fau er of the same country; and his highness not on ly promised for the future to Rand by the English but granted a letter to the deputy-governor of Surat, commanding him to use them respectfully and give them all such other indulgences as his excellency required. Nay, the queen, wrought thereto by her brother Afaph Clan, sent the am baflador assurance of her protection, and an order in favour of the company, which she also had ob gained from the prince, left he (hould have forgot ten what he promised personally to do, being of a very hasty and forgetful temper.,By
By this his highness secured them entirely from harm; for they were now, as it were, belonging to the queen, who sent a person immediately to as. sis the company's servants in all reasonable matter;, with her name and authority; along with whom Afaph Clan dispatched a trusty servant of his own, by way of second, and to purchase what he wanted of English goods.,In consequence of this courtly favour, all the nobility sent persons on board purposely to buy; so that, without any loss or delay by seizures, du. ties, or carriages, the ships sold their cargoes be. fore landing, and could have sold three times more, On the 24th the Mogul removed from Mandoa, and the English ambassador followed him on the 29th, not without great inconveniencies, as well on ac. count of the want of carriages, as the scarcity of-water and dearness of provisions. On the 2zdof November, two persons of the name of Steel and Jackson came on shore privately, with some pearls and other odd matters by his excellency's order, which were shewn to Afaph Clan, who was well pleated with the first sight of them, though they were not such as he wanted; neither were they fit for the market of Indoftan.,On the both of November, Sir Thomas laboured hard to invalidate a report of the English company ships having large quantities of brick and lime on board, in order to erect a sort without the Mo gul's leave. A few nights after, the prince spoke lightly of the worth of the English traffic, and was hotly opposed by Afaph Clan, who while he en. handed the advantages which accrued from them to the Mogul's dominions, accused the prince's of. fibers of having behaved to the company with violence and injustice, an impeachment which irritated the Mogul very much against the prince, and caused almost an irreparable breach between this last and,Afaph
Afaph Clan: in consequence of it, however, the custom-house officers received a very filii charge, to behave respectfully for the future; and Sir Tho ras courageously declared, that if, after these pub hic marks of.protecion from the royal fountain of authority, any violence or force should be offered to the company's people, he. would order it to be re pellet by force, though it should cot the effusion of Come blood.,Some Dutch envoys appeared at court on the roth of January, with several Chinese rarities, by way of presents. They did not seem to be known for the prince asked the English ambassador who they were ? and on his answering that they were a nation under protection of the English, but not held in the highest esteem, he replied, as friends to the English they should-be welcome: whereupon Sir Thomas, being desired, forwarded their pre sent, for they were not allowed to come within the rails, but to keep without side the third ascent, near some English merchants, who did not inter change any discourse with them. Here concludes all that we have extant in Sir Thomas Rowe's papers, the remainder being lost: nobis it very' material; for Purchase, who, we are to suppose, had seen them complete, says, they con gained nothing curious, but only some few observations relating to trade.,CHAP.
C H A P. Xl. nee extent of the Mogul's dominions: the magnificr,,ruins of Cor: vas expence of maintaining the 1M-gu 's wild bealis: Range laws with refpeg to inheritance: whence the name of Mogul is derived: ceremonies of various religions: a character of Ez. bar Shah; his encouragement of the Jesuits; his untimely death.,HE Mogul's dominions, at the time of Sir Thomas Rowe's embassy, were larger than the Persian, and near equal to the Turkish mo. anarchy: they contained thirty-fix large kingdoms, among which that of Cytor was not the leat re. markable, the chief city of which stands upon hill; its walls were ten miles round; it was deft. tune of inhabitants: but, from its pompous re. mains, appeared to have been a very splendid place, shewing the ruins of above one hundred thousand houses, besides a noble palace, and more than one hundred churches, most of them built of hewn tone and elegantly carved ; there being some pillars of very delicate workmanship. This kingdoms lies to the north-east of Guzarat, and north-west of Curtis; it belonged to a descendant of Porus, against whom Alexander the Great marched, and was subdued by Ezbar Shah, father to the Mogul who sat on the throne of Indoftan while Sir Thomas Rowe was ambassador there agra, the chief city and residence of the so. foreign, was thought to be a thousand miles distant from the borders at the nighest; from the north frae to the south-west of which borders, that is from Harder to Duarfa, the space was said to be fifteen hundred miles, and from north to south above fourteen hundred miles; from Agra to Ca-,2 lor,
ohr, being seven hundred miles, was thigh road planted with beautiful trees the Mogul's revenues must have been extraordinarily great; for we are told, the expences of main gaining his elephants and lions only, amounted to ten thousand pounds sterling. :He was heir in ge neral to all his fubjeLs, whether merchants or others, appropriating what he thought proper to the main penance of their Wives and children his friendship was won and maintained by presents ; and he who made the most and richest was sure of the best re ward: he disposed of lands and governments accord into his own liking; and, as at moss other courts, the sycophant was preferred to the man of merit his governors were almost all absolute, having the disposal of life and fortune in their hands. The buildings through the whole empire were low, and walled with mud, except the king's houses, which were handsome and uniform, built of stone; the reason of this meanness is, because no man can be said to have any property of his own; and a favourite whose poffeffionsihall produce him more than the revenue of a German electorate, shall leave a son, who perhaps has scarcely any thing left to be gin the world with; wherefore numbers of great men reside in tents, which are not only commodious, but can easily be made magnificent. There were no registered nor written laws in Indoftan, all things being decided by the absolute judgment of the sovereign, or of his governor. There are many different religions known here, and each divided into many different seas. In some places there are a few, but indeed very few Christians also Banians, who are Pythagoreans, believing in the metempsychosis, or transmigration of souls; wherefore they will not slay any living thing, and make a point of killing a.flea, for fear of annoy ing a father or a cousin; and idolaters of many,forts,
sorts, such as worshippers of fire, and those who wives leap joyfully upon the funeral piles, and consume themselves with the flame that reduces the-body of their dead husbands to ashes; besides there, there are numbers wh6 profess themselves followers of Half, and if Jehan Guire Shah was of any religion, which was a doubt, his were the tenets of there people the Mahometanss belief was introduced by the offspring of Tamerlane, who imposed it upon none by law, but recommenced it, leaving all people free to adopt or repeat it; and it was from the circumcision introduced by Mohammedanism, that the kings were called Moguls, which signifies chief of the circumcised, circumcision being en forced by the laws of Mahomet: before these times the people were heathens of various fess, having n6 fettled belief; and since they are divided also, some following the Koran of Mahomet, some the creed of Hall, in which the difference is not very essential; and others the tenets of later expounders of the doctrine of Mohammedanism: they have 211 their different mosques or places of public worship, priest, votaries, forms, prayers and ceremonies. Their penitents are remarkably severe in voluntary punishments and chastisements, as are also many professors of idolatry in all parts of the Eaf-Indies.,Some heathens or idolaters, whose different principles it would be tedious to enumerate, worship beasts, fire, &c. drink wine, and eat all kinds of fresh, not excepting pork, as the Mahometanss do; others will meddle with no flesh, but such ass deemed holy; and there are still others who eat nothing that has life, nor will they drink with those that do: they pay a particular refpea to the river Ganges, where forty or fifty thousand ol,then
them meet annually to make oblations of gold and silver. At the coming of Ezbar Shah to the crown, the people were in a tate of very great ignorance, none but the Mahometan priests pretending to any thing of literature, and their knowledge being only a smattering of mathematics and astrology; but Ezbar Shah, who was not only just and pious, but also very curious and fond of promoting know ledge and virtue, having heard of the reputation of the Christian missionary at Goa, sent very kind' invitations and promises of protection to father Je rom Avernus and two other-suits, then upon that mission; who accepting thereof, arrived in his dominions, where, by their example, learning, and purity of-manners, they made many converts and beamed in many places the light of instruction, before which, the nisi of darkness dispersed very fas. . Avernus, by the Mogul's express command, wrote a defence of Christianity, and a refutation of Mahometanifm and Idolatry, which his majesty was greatly pleated to hear read to him, and: explained; often condescending to.argue upon the different topics, in which he (hewed himself a man of sound sense, ready conception, and great penetration. He not only gave them patents. for converting his subjects, instructing them in the Roman catholic belief, and building churches, but alto gave large endowments to both the priests. and their temples: and publickly allowed liberty of conscience, declaring that the profession of Christianity had nothing in it disagreeable to him; and that he did not care if his whole court, nay the princes of the blood royal, were of hat religion, for he promised it Should never injure them. m i v'/i. III. M His;
His majesty afterwards deviated from the belie of Mahomet, and at last died, with a general good character, without being supposed over flri& in any religion, though he made profession of Mahomet. anifm with his last breath, to the disappointment of the fathers.,C H A P. XII. Jehan Guire succeeds to the throne of Indian; hi,charaifer; pretends to be inclined to Christianity; and has a comical design on the Jesuits; a niradt wr ought; the great sagacity of an ape. H IS son and successor, Jehan Guire, was a god natured, chearful man, rather fat than other. wife, of an olive complexion; he could talk wel enough, and never having been circumcised, nor indeed inflruaed in any, during the search for true religion, was rather an atheist than any thing else; he sometimes called himself a follower of Mahomet, but performed several ceremonies peculiar to Pagan ism and Idolatry. He cooked up, by there means, a religion of his own ; called himself a greater prophet than Mahomet, and made a matin appear. ance to be reverenced by many who followed his oddities: vet he was not fond of people who chang ed their religion, being out of humour with none except Mahomet, whom he was pleased to hear fa. tried. The name of Christ he always venerated, nor would he permit him to be spoken of with the slightest difrefpe&.,He enlarged and confirmed the revenues of tht new Christian church, and for more than a year consumed two hours every night in listening to disputes concerning the doctrine thereof, and drop. ping hints as if he meant to be converted. By,hi
his digression, the reverend fathers set up a school, and sent two young boys, his brothers, with several other youths, to be educated in the Christian be lies, taught the sciences, and intruded in the Portuguese tongue. They were solemnly baptized in the church at Agra, with great pomp and solemnity, being first carried in procession round the city, mounted up on elephants. While his majesty seemed more and more pleased with their progress, opinions varied with respect to the reality of his designs; some inclining to the profession of which they imagined the Mogul a member, others believing that he sus served the children to be thus educated, to render them odious to the Moors; and by such means establish himself more firmly in his own dominion; but none saw into his true design; it was hartley hould, for it was an odd one. The Jesuits were one day surprized by the two princes addressing them formally, and entreating them to bestow Portuguese wives on them, who being Christians, might strengthen them in the re legion, that differed so widely from that of Indoftan, and disallowed a plurality of wives, as well as for bad the marrying with infidels. The Jesuits smiled at their request, and gently chid them for their boyish folly, suspecting no more; but the very next day the youngsters came to them again, and told them, since the king of Portugal would not give them wives from among his-subject, they would be no longer of his religion; so saying, they re signed their crosses, breviaries, and as it afterwards appeared, their belief, to the good fathers from whom they had received them the Jesuits began now to open their eyes, and justly to imagine there was more in this address than boyish inclination, since it seemed quite di-,M vested
versed of that awe which formerly hung over the pupils; upon this they took them to talk, and at lash influenced them to acknowledge that they a&. ed in obedience to the desire of the Mogul. Cor, however, would not accept the crosses, &c. frog them, saying they could not possibly accept of surrender made by children; that these thing were delivered by his majesty's command; and i they were to be given up, it was expected his ma. deity would signify his will accordingly, by one es those officers by whom he sends his orders; and whose enunciation is equal to a warrant the boys went back to their uncle with ths message, which incensed him extremely; however, he ordered the fathers to be summoned to the wo. mens lodge, whither he retired. When he head they were at-the door, he rent a lady to tell them, that his nephews had-added by his order; and that it was his desire they should return to their former religion, and that the school should be broke up. With this unexpected command they were obliged to comply; and the youths are now openly known to be infidels, without paying the smallest regard to, or seeming to retain, the slightest impression of their first faith; From hence it was evident, and it was afterwards well known, that the Mogul wanted to try what sort of flesh and blood the women of Portugal were made of; and he hoped, by pretending himself of their religion, to have made the reverend fathers ac the part of. pimps. It is certain, that ever after, Jehan Guire Shah gave himself no farther trouble in establishing or encouraging Christianity.,Some time after this incident, the Jesuits house - and church having been consumed by fire, there was found a crucifix in the ruins untouched; an ac count of which was instantly published as a miracle, and coming to his majesty's ears, he sent foregone
bne of the Jesuits, who related the accident to him, and with whom he had a long conference: mong other things, he asked him whether he did not desire to make a convert of him; to which the good father answering yes, the Mogul replied, I have heard you talk much of your miracles, aid the wonders performed by the name of your pro poet: now I will deal very fairly with you; cast a crucifix before me into the fire, and make what in teres with your prophet you please to save it, I give you my word, if it comes out again without any damage, I will become christian: with this de fire the Jesuit did not think proper to comply, say ing, that God was not bound to obey the call of his creature; that to tempt him were insolence; and that his miracles were voluntary; however, the good father offered to throw himself into the fire, as a testimony of his fait, a f.c;ifce which the Mogul would not permit. Here the prince Corone interposed, being a' zealous Mahometan, and an enemy to Christians in general, urging that this was a reasonable trial of the truth of the Jesuit's religion, who, he in fisted, should be compelled to take the turban, if the crucifix was burnt: he advanced several stories of miracles having been wrought upon lets occasions than the conversion o6 so powerful a monarch; and concluded his discourse with in derives against the Saviour of mankind: which Jehan Guire Shah resented; and drawing a comparison between many of the actions of Christ and those of the 'pretended Mahometan saints, proved the preference ought to be given to the former; and defended his claim to the character of a very great prophet. His majesty having advanced that no miracle wrought, or said to be wrought by Mahomet and his most holy followers, was equal to that of reftoring'the dead to life, as in the case of La-,M 3 carus;
carus; the prince answered, that giving sight to man blind from his birth was equal to it: and a third person fettled the controversy, by saying, that both the prince and his father were right in their judgments; for, said he, the greatest miracle that, can be performed is to give life to the dead : now an eye naturally blind is certainly a dead body, fight being the life of it; therefore he who gave sight to the eye naturally blind, animated a dead body; consequently he that had raised the dead, was not to be ranked above him who illuminated the eye in that case. This manner of arguing silenced both father and son and here the dispute subsided before we dismiss our reader from this account of Indoftan, we shall take notice of one lory, the truth of which, though strongly asserted, we (hall rt take-upon us to maintain, but leave every one who peruses it, to form a spontaneous judg. ment few nations produce better jugglers that Ben gal; a native of which place brought a curious ape to the court of Jehan Guire Shah, which was said to be an excellent diviner, a virtue which the Indians generally attribute to this frolicksome animal. His majesty diverted himself a good while with the tricks of this ape, and among other pranks hid his ring with a particular person, whom the ape soon found, though many others were present. After this seat, the names of twelve law givers, such as Christ, Moses, Mahomet, Haly, &c. were inscribed in the Persian tongue on separate bits of paper, and shuffled all together in a bag; and the ape being ordered to divine which was the tru eft, drew out the name of Christ. This distinction surprized the Mogul a little at firs ; however, sup poring the juggler might know how to read the Persian tongue, and by that means secretly influence
once the animal, the different names were written over again in court characters, when the ape's choice was still as before; with this addition, that he kissed it with great solemnity.,An officer who was present entreated his ma jessy would allow him to make up the names, and he would be bound to discover the deceit'; for that there was deceit he was firmly persuaded: his request being granted, he put eleven names into the bag, reserving the twelfth in his hand. The ape examined the bag very carefully, but re jested all that he found; and the monarch con landing him to bring one, he shewed his refusal by tearing every one of them to pieces; then he ran to the officer, and la d hold of the hand in which he had kept the name of Christ. This was said to have been performed in the presence of many people; and to have made the Mogul very thought ful, who purchased the ape, and held it in very great esteem the most saleable commodities in Indoftan were fire arms, swords, knives, tapestries, tissues, light stuffs, and silks, sweet wiles, rich horfe'furniture, game dogs of all sorts, plumes of feathers, prints, pictures that have many fine figures well executed,, watches, watch-chains, burning, spying, and drink ing glasses, precious stones well set, and seals elegantly engraved, cabinets with all sorts of curious toys, and nice nick-nacks, particularly the work manship of China.,The people are ingenious and tractable, easily taught to imitate any thing that is shewn there, they being excellent artificers and good painters; as they shewed themselves inr counterfeiting so well the pictures exhibited bySir Thomas Rowe to the Mogul, as well as by their making rather better coaches after the model of that which he brought with him from England. It was that gentleman's 4 opinion,
opinion, that business would be translated here by a private agent, a native of the country, known at court, and acquainted with trade, who may be had for a thousand roupies a year, better than by ten ambassador sat the time of Sir Thomas Rowe's departure for England, the Mogul entrusted him with a letter to-king James I. its address being very particular, we have here transcribed it.,7 " To a king rightly descended from his an. C' censors, skilled in martial affairs, and cloathed " With honour injustice; a commander deserving '" all command, of strength and perseverance in " the religion taught by the great prophet Christ; "' king James, whose love hath made an impression "' upon my thoughts, never to be wiped out, but " as the smell of amber, or as a garden flocked "' with fragrant flowers, whose beauty and odour " are in a continual increase; so shall. my.love im " prove and increase with yours, &c.",This letter contained assurances of his friend. .hip to the fubjeAs of England, and of his inch nation to protect the merchants who were natives of that kingdom; but when it was finished, the Mogul was vastly at a loss where to affix the feal, so as neither to disparage himself, or give occasion of offence to the monarch whom he addressed: had he sealed it at the bottom, he imagined, it would have been demeaning himself; had he sealed it on the top, he was afraid it might be interpreted into disrespect? of king James; and these considerations determined the Mogul to deliver the letter open to the ambassador, and to give him the feal, which was of silver, having his genealogy from Tamer lane, he being the ninth descendant, engraved on it; desiring him to deliver it to his sovereign, who,might
might affix the feal to what part of the letter he pleased. We may judge of the cheapness of this country at that time, from Mr. Thomas Coryat's assuring us, that he spent but three pounds in ten months, the time which he consumed in travelling a-foot from Aleppo to Ardfmere, where the Mogul then resided, and out of those three pounds, some Arme nan Christians defrauded him of ten shillings; so that in reality it cost him but fifty Shillings, he be ing well entertained in some places for one penny a day.,M v The
The VOYAGE of Captain Johnson. To which are prefixed, Some curious Memoirs, relating to OLD and NEW GREENLAND.,CHAP. I. 7)e situation of Old Greenland, and an inquiry into the origin of its inhabitants; the adventures of Erick and his sin Ses; various accounts concerning this country; different animals natural to Green land described; tie duke of Russia near being tricked; Strange appearances on the coast. G Greenland comprehends the vast spaces land that stretches along the Frozen Sea, from Cape Farewell to Spitzbergen and Nova Zembla; it was once thought, without any certain reason, to have joined Great Tartary ; its northern boundaries remain yet unknown, its fou them are the ocean; it borders on the Frozen Sea to the eastward, and Hudson's Straits separate it from America on the west: from the discovery of Davis's Straits being but a bay, it has been inferred that it joined the continent of America; but from captain Monk's voyage, this opinion appears to be ill founded the Danish chronicles advance that it was first inhabited by Americans, who were driven upon the craft by a tempest, and that they afterwards extended their settlements to Norway ; but this account fa yours a little of the fable almost ins parable from an tient history. Is it not more probable, that it was,M 6 peopled
peopled first from Norway? There is some author. city for this belief.,We are told that Tenfold, a Norwegian gen. leman, being convinced. of several murders, fled to Iceland, where he died; and that his son Erick, sirnamed the Red-haired, who accompanied him, after the father's death, being guilty of the same crimes for which he was prosecuted, went to sea in search of a country called Gundebiurn, lying to the west of Iceland, and soon discovered two pro. notaries, one on an island called Witfercken or White Shirt, from the snow wherewith it is covered, and one on the continent, called Wharf, whiche named Sand Safn.,Erick passed the winter in the sand, and in the spring crossed over to the continent, which, from tome verdure that he saw, perhaps unexpectedly, he called Greenland. He was not without some followers,'fince he built castles in several places, during three years that he remained here; after which tine, he went back to Iceland; where he re presented this new country in a light so very advantageous that he found adventurers ready to follow him thither. In the mean time a son of his named Lies, and afterwards Lies the Fortunate, having crossed over to Norway and given some account of the places to the reigning prince, was, after being converted to the Christian faith and baptized, sent back with a priest to preach Christianity; the peo. pie received him with joy, but his father was displeased at his having brought with him some so reign seamen, whom he had saved from shipwrecks not thinking it for his interest that this country should be known to strangers; however, he was ,afterwards reconciled to him, and, together with ail his followers, made open profession of Christie .Nity.,This
This event happened about the year 780, the po eternity of Erick increased considerably, and advanced' proportionably into the country, where they found good pasturage, a fertile soil, and excellent water :: they divided the land into the eastern and western. Greenland; in the eastern, they built a city called: Garde, where they dedicated a good cathedral to St. Nicholas, the patron of seafaring men ; here, the bishop resided, one of the name of Henry be - ing mentioned by Pontus, as sitting among the assembly of the Danish states, anno 1389; and many Norwegians resorted traffic. Some time as towards, another city rose near the sea-shore, called Alb, where a monastery was founded sacred to St. Thomas the apoRle, the people being very relic gious.,Greenland was already well known when the Danish kings first became Christians; and we find, it mentioned, as in the jurisdiction of Ahfgarius, bishop of Bremen, and constituted archbishop of the north, in a bull of pope Gregory the fourth,. published anno 835, and extant in the chronicles of Bremen. It was afterwards, in spirituals, sub servient to the bishop of Drontheim; and, in temporal governed according to the laws of Iceland, by a person whom the king of Norway appointed. We have a list of its governors, and of its bishops, to the year 1489, given us by Antrim Jonas, .an Icelander, in a treatise stiled Specimen Iflandicum.,The Danish chronicle, from which, and one of Iceland, written in their respective languages, we have copied our accounts of this territory, men tion an insurrection of the people anno 1356, ons account of a tax exaaed from them by Magnus king of Norway; who, being assisted by a firing fleet belonging to his brother Erick king of Den mark, soon reduced them to sue for peace, which was accordingly granted in x361; when they can-,-fentsdB
seated to pay a perpetual tribute to the crown ol Norway. There is a confused, undigested defcrip. tion of Greenland, in the abovementioned Iceland chronicle, which fixes in the molt easterly part ol it, a city called Scagenfiord, where there is a har. your almost inaccessible from surrounding rocks, except at the time of a very high tide; and here whales and many other sorts of fish are caught, in form weather particularly. At a small distance, is another little harbour, to which Funchibudet, a courtier belonging to Oats king of Norway, who chanced to be shipwrecked here, gave his name, Beyond it is the isle of Roanfon, which swarm! with wild bears, but principally with white bears; and farther that way, nothing is to be perceived bul ice.,On the west is a place called Kindelfiord, fur. rounded by a branch of the sea, near which, al Rempefingford there is a nunnery, and many frnall islands abounding with warm springs, which are used with success in some physical cases during the summer, but they are useless from their vast increase of heat in winter; and a little farther is found E certain substance, called talc stone, of so soft a na ture as to admit being cut into any form whether hollow or solid, and yet it is proof against fire, Bondefiord lies to the wet ward, where are fever small islands, and many good landing-places.,The country has been thought void of inhabit. wants, by the person who wrote there chronicles; but this was certainly a mistake, arising from the natural timidity of the people, which induced their to hide themselves on the approach of strangers, o which, it is said, there have been many instances, And the Danish chronicle positively asserts that th( Nor egians did not possess the hundredth part o Gre land S the rest being divided into different nation
tions and principalities, governed and inhabited by the natives, with whom the Norwegians had scarcely any communication the Icelander differs in his accounts of the ser utility of Greenland, at one time mentioning corn and stout oak, as produces of the soil-and at another affirming that bread is unknown to the inhabitants and that the ground is so strongly fettered by the excess of cold, as to be extremely barren: this opinion the Dane confirms, for he says, that. Erick the Repaired, on his first arrival here, was forced to feed on fish, it being the only sustenance that could be procured ; however, we have already observed that his posterity had better luck. The latter also asserts, that in Greenland the cold is less intenfe.than in Norway, which every body knows is a corn country; nay it is farther said, they have two harvests in the summer season: nor does this appear improbable, if we consider that the rays of the fun are reflected upon the vallies from the fur rounding rocks, with double force, while the glebe is properly meliorated by the snow being gently melted down upon it; so that their sowing and reaping twice in the warm months of June, July, and August, is not quite so surprizing; this we are sure of, that good corn grows in Upland in Sweden, and it is under the same elevation of the pole as that part of Greenland inhabited by the Norwegians.,But why may there not be Come lands here as well as in all other countries that are fertile and others barren? Though the higher grounds are rocky and produce variety of marble, the vallies may afford good pasturage for horses, deer, hares, nay for bears and wolves. Here were many species of falcons which were held in much estimation whales, sea-wolves, sea-calves, and sea-dogs, are very plenty round the coast; to these we may add the white bear, as it is an amphibious animals living
living among the ice and feeding on fish; the black: bears are neither so large nor so savage; their con. slant territory is the land, and they never prey upon fish. The sea-wolves and dogs are reckoned, in some measure, dainties, and softer their young upon the ice for fear of the whale, who is an implacable-enemy to them and the white bear, which makes the latter very cautious of venturing far, when the ice begins to melt, though they are sometimes car cried away upon large pieces of ice that are suddenly melted from the main body, and driven upon the coasts of Norway and Iceland; where, impelled by hunger, they destroy every thing that falls in their way with prodigious fury from a species of whales not uncommon upon the coast, is taken that horn or tooth that the Danes, some ages since, imposed upon the world for the true unicorn's horn, selling it at a vast price they are still highly esteemed in physic, one of them is shewn as a great curiosity at St. Dennis in France, but there is a much larger in Fredericksburg, belong ing to his Danish majesty there was one of a considerable size brought, not many years ago, to Moscow, by a person in the service of the Greenland company fettled at Copenhagen who was near getting a large price for it from the great duke of Russia, but that one of his physicians discovered it to be a fishes tooth, and not the real unicorn's horn; on which the bargain was broke off there is a land animal, mentioned by Moses, called the unicorn, to which he compares God for vigour and chearfulness; the same name is given by Aristotle to the Indian ass, and Pliny describes the unicorn to have the head of a deer, the body of a horse, and the feet of an elephant, with a long wreathed horn growing out of its forehead, of prodigious strength and swiftness;. Whj
Why may there not be land and sea-unicorns, as well as wolves, dogs, calves, &c. though from a description given of this creature by Thomas Scan lanius, bishop of Iceland, who paints from the life, it appears that what we call the horn is more pro percy a tcothi fixed to the upper part of the jaw bone. Two strange sorts of-monsters are faid'to have formerly infested the seas of Greenland, both the certain precursors of tempestuous weather; one of them transparent like ice, with the nose, eyes, shoulders, shape and arms of a man, and no hands; but the head tapering up to a pyramidical point, it is called by the Norwegians, Hafftramb. The other is shaped like a woman, with large breasts, long flowing hair, and fingers growing at tends of the arms webbed like a goose's feet; it is named Margugwer.,There was also another phenomenon very dan serous, namely a whirlpool, caused by the .hurry, canes, which raised the waves to a prodigious height and if any ships were so unfortunate as to be ens gaged amongst them, they were inevitably swallow ed in the vast abyss. The many hot springs to be found in Greenland prove, that burning noun. pains of sulphur exist as well there as in Iceland ; and the Danish chronicle mentions a very extraordinary tempest of thunder, lightning, &c. anno 1308, whereby a church in Greenland, called Sealholt, was burned to the ground and this was succeeded by a hurricane, the most dreadful that can be imagined, whereby rocks were torn from their roots, and shattered, while the whole country was covered with ashes.,C H A P.
C H A P. II. Of the met ors of this country ; a law to hinder pteot. from travelling to it without a royal licence ; of ths lcJs of Old Greenland; and some endeavours nimble to account fr that loss; Sir Martin Forb;fhrr's twr voyages in Search of it; be lands o2 new Green. tand.,H E days in winter are short; in summer there is scarcely any night, and the sky in general is clear; to which those meteors that are now common in our skies, although not known amongst us till the year 17 5, called the north lights, or aurora borealis, contribute considerably. There phaenomena are very pale, and of different forms, such as spiral, pyramidical, oblong, &c. keeping in perpetual motion, and emitting a strong lustre; sometimes recoiling as if it were into themselves, and then suddenly shooting out to a vast length, with redoubled brightness; we have them mostly in clear frosty nights; and in Ireland they are still more usual than in Enaland.,The kings of Denmark and Norway have, with out any success, fitted out several ships for disco veering the northern parts of Greenland, from a sup position that they yield gold, silver, and precious stones; and this belief arose from the report of some Friezlanders, who being forced by a storm into a creek in Northern Greenland, went on shore, where, in most wretched half-buried huts, they found a large quantity of metallic tones, with which having loaded themselves, they made for their lips; but the natives attacked them in their retreat, and pressed them very hard with slings, bows and arrows, tearing to pieces one of their,number
number, who chanced, by lagging a little behind, to fall into their hands. This discovery happened in the reign of Claus the Holy, king of Norway.,The revenues of Greenland being appropriated to the support of the king of Norway's table, it was death by the law for any one to pass thither without a special permission; and in the year 1389, some people being accused of having made this voyage in an illegal manner, had like to have paid for it with their lives sand though they proved, upon oath, that they were driven thither by stress of weather, they were long imprisoned, and suffered considerable hardships. Restrictions. of this nature are always a circumscription to knowledge; they intimidated other people from holding any com mere with this forbidden trap, or even making an advance towards it: this prohibition principally con tribute to the loss of that country;. for, however surprising it may appear, that part of the world in which is Old Greenland has been lost to us, and hid, as it were, from our knowledge ever since the latter end of the fourteenth century, when most of the Greenland licensed company were swept off by an epidemical distemper, which first interrupted the. correspondence, and a war between Denmark and Sweden some time after entirely broke it off; so that at present the course is quite unknown, and all en devours hitherto to recover it have proved ineffectual By examining, in the Danish chronicle, the ca dialogue of the sovereigns who have succeeded to the thrones of Denmark and Norway since queen Mar garret, we find the attention of moR of them divert ed from the recovery of this land, either by poli tical or religious views; and those who have in lined to it seem, by a sort of fatality, to have been prevented: for we find it particularized in the reign of king Frederick II. that one Magnus Henningfon,having
having set out upon that discovery, met very bad weather; however, he came at last in sight of the there, where notwithstanding the sea on every side was free and open, neither obstructed by ice nor shallows, his flip was stopt;. nor could any of his endeavours to make the land succeed. This deter. tion he attributed to the vas quantity of loadstone supposed to be at the bottom of the water hereabouts. Had Magnus known the power attributed to the fil called remora, which is said singly to be able to flop a flip under sail, he might have accounted I much better for this strange obstruction, which happened the year 1588.,The preceding year queen Elizabeth dispatched Martin Frobisher to make discoveries to the north. ward; but the approach of winter, and increase of the ice prevented him from reaching the shore; so that he was forced to return home without fucccfes,In 1583 he set out upon-another expedition of the same nature, and made New Greenland; the inhabitants of which forsook their huts in great ter or when.his people landed, and some of them flung themselves into the sea. All endeavours to cultivate an acquaintance with there savages were in vain: an old woman and a child however fell into their bands, and the former Shrieked most horridly at the child's being taken from her. Their tents were-king of the whale and sea-calf, fastened to strong poles, and well defended from the east and north winds; they were open to the west and southeast they coasted along, they saw a monster's head, with a horn near four feet long, raised above the surface of the water; and going ashore found the sand glitter like gold, of which they took three hundred tons along with them. They made several advances at conferring with there people, who at last seemed as if near complying, by beckoning to them to row higher up the river; upon which,,Martin
Martin entered a boat with some soldiers for that purpose; but finding the savages numerously potted among the rocks, he avoided-coming too near the bank, for fear' of treachery; and he was certainly fight: for from their contra it was plain they in tended mischief. Among other arts used to draw him on (lore, one of their people was stretched out as if lame and helpless, under a rock, behind which, but out of sight, was posted a large body of the people in ambuscade. Forbilher suffering their design, fired a gun at the seeming cripple, which soon set him on his legs, and he ran for it; how ever, upon the noise, the bank was filled with people who poured instantaneously from their place of concealment, and annoyed the people in the boat with stones and arrows; but a volley of show soon cleared the place effectually-for they all fled with precipitation these people are active, well made, of an olive complexion, and treachery seems to be their cha. raferiftic; they are covered with skins of sea calves tacked together, with a thread made of the sinews of beasts: the women and men dress much alike, each wearing a sort of breeches with many pockets, which they fluff with knives, needles, yarn, looking-glasses, and such other toys as they pick up upon the shore after a shipwreck. They slain their faces blue, and their long hair hangs un twined over tir shoulders; their garments are ge neatly loose, carelessly tied about the middle, and they have no notion of the shame that affected our primogenitor, Adam, not teeming to know that any particular part should be concealed: would not a person hence be induced'to imagine, there people do not partakes the original sin of ourfirft father? since this knowledge is, by casuists, said to be one of the immediate consequences of the fall.,They
They have no riches but bows and arrows, wits which they can shoot fishes as they swim, and they hive boats madeof the sea-calf's skin, fitted to con. tain only one person their larger vessels will hold a score of people; they are wood covered with whale skin; their sails are the intestines of fifth; and in these they venture to sea, being very firing, though without any iron work to cement them. They have no horses, but their sheds are drawn by very large dogs that are not untractable: the climate neither produces nor cherishes any animal more venomous than a gnat or a spider. They have no fresh springs, and are ob. lived to use melted snow chap. III. Cbrifliern IF. king of Denmark, fits out a fleet to go,in search of Old Greenland; New Greenland di covered; feme silver found here; and five or six f the natives brought captives to Denmark; great ex. pefaiaiors of gold cn this coast. C HRISTIERN IV. kingofDenmarkhavingthe,discovery, or rather the recovery of Green! land at heart, engaged an experienced English sailor in his service, whom, together with Lindenauau, a Dane, not unacquainted with the northern coasts, he sent with three this into those seas. They left the Sound in summer, I605, and divided on aco count of the ice, the Englishman fleering south. west, the Dane north east, and the latter reaches New Greenland; whence the inhabitants came of in their boats, and ventured with little entreaty or board, where they were treated with wine an tain-oil, to the latter of which they gave much th preference, drinking it very greedily. They prize,iIC
iron at a great rate, parting with even their arms or cloaths for it; but seemed to hold gold and fil ver in great contempt. They bartered bear-skins, pieces of the unicorn-horn, and sea-calfs skins for needles, knives, looking-glasses, and other baubles the Dane-said but three days on the coast, not caring in that time to venture on shore; and he set sail for Denmark on the 4th, bearing away with him two of the natives, who were so outrageous at being detained, that he was forced to have them bound; their brethren endeavoured to revenge this insult from the beach with their arrows; but some cannon-shot soon put them to the route the Englishman in the mean time reached the other side of this territory, where he found good harbours and plenty of pasturage: the natives here seemed more reserved and mistrustful than those who dealt with the Dane; for no sooner had they got any thing they liked than they retired with precipitation and fear. Here some of the Englishman people went on flore, well armed, and found the soil good, but rocky like that of Norway. From the strong sulphurous smell which scented all the air, they imagined the mountains must contain great quantities of sulphur and fiery matters. From a hundred weight of a sort of silver ore which they found here, and carried to Denmark, they ex traced twenty ounces of pure silver. They made four of the natives prisoners; and one of them being more obstinate than the rest, was knocked down with a musket, an example that made the rest much tamer: but their detention being discovered, the passage to the captors ships was cut off: however, it was soon opened with gunpowder, and three prisoners brought off, who were presented to the king of Denmark, and proved to be more civilized and better made than those the Dane had imported, be-sing
ing different as well in language and manners as in, apparel the following year Christian, who was well satisfied with their voyage, lent five chips under the command of Lindenauauauauauau the Dane, with orders to take the course of the Englishman, and fleer south. west. The savages were put on board to serve as interpreters, but one of them died by the way. Lindenauauauauauau arrived on the coast of Greenland with four of his ships, the fifth having been separated from him in a storm; but found, from the hostile appearance and menacing gestures of the natives, who crouded upon the sea-side in arms, that at. tempting to land would be madness, this made him try two or three different harbours, but the,fcene was every where the same; notwithstanding which opposition, he made a shift to seize six of these (a. wages, from among several who followed the ships at a distance, as if to observe the course he intended to fleer; and these were boughton board, together with their boats and oars: one of them soon after drowned himself for grief.,Linderrau's valet, a rash but resolute fellow, having taken it in his head that he could bringeth savages to some terms, was, after much entreaty, permitted to go on shore, where he was cut in pieces before he had advanced half a dozen yards. Lindenauauauauauau seeing that he could make no progress here at any rate, returned to Denmark, after a very troublesome and dangerous voyage the king, soon after, fitted out two ships for a third expedition to Greenland, under the care of one Richardson, a native of Holstein, assisted by some of the most experienced mariners of Nor way and Iceland, who, the 26th day afterhis leaving the Sound, had sight of the Greenland shore; but that was all: for the passage was so blocked up with ice, that it was impossible to come nearest,
it, there being some summers, when the ice does not melt, either from the winter's being more fe vere, or the summer's being less warm than usual; so that Richardson being divided from one of his ships, and fearing to be jammed in among the ice, retreated homeward, and was well received by the king in spite of his want of success. As the king did not think fit to send thither any more Ships at his own charge, a company of mer chants, and some people of quality, under the name of the Greenland company, equipped two vessels for Davies's Streights, where eight natives came,: on board of them, as loon as they anchored; but whilst they were intent on barteringlkins and pieces of horn for looking-glasses, needles, &c. a gun. was accidentally fired, on which they all started up and leaped over board, swimming under water till they were a great way from the flip; however, they were afterwards induced to come on board again, and finish their traffic ; their way of-bargains ing was to lay the European commodities and their own in two different parcels, and to take from or to add to either until they were satisfied. A mate of one of the ships taking notice of a certain sand, that in weight and colour resembled true gold, took in a lading of it, and put to sea as fast as possible, telling his ship-mates their for tunes were all made. The lord high seward of Denmark, who was part owner, was as much fur prised at her quick return, as he was at the flory of the gold; the cargo being immediately ordered into the hands of some Copenhagen refiners, who reported it to be worth nothing; on which .lis lordship was very angry, and ordered the mate, without speaking a word of his folly to any body, to throw his fancied treasure into the sea: the poor man obey the injunction, and died soon as ter of grief for his disappointment; however, the VOL. III. N lord
lord high Reward had reason to repent of his 1h. ry; for, some sand of the same nature was after. wards brought from the Norwegian mines, which, managed by persons of skill, yielded a good quam. city of gold: yet, had it been in the hands of the ignorant Copenhagen goldsmiths, they'would have condemned it like the reft.,In this-voyage they detained;two of the natives, who watched an opportunity of jumping into the sea, where they certainly perished, as they were too far from land, ever to reach it: and they also brought with them that horn, which, we observed before, was to have been ,sold to the duke of Muscovy : it is fill to be seen at Copenhagen, and is valued at six thousand crowns. They more. over underfoot, by signs made by the savages, that the inland country was well inhabited, by a large, fierce, inhuman people, armed with bows and ar rows those savages, who were brought to Denmark, lived upon milk, cheese, fish, raw flesh, and whale oil; but could never be prevailed upon to relish either boiled meat or wine: two of them escaped from their keepers, and put to sea in their own boats, but were forced back by the wind, and thrown ashore at Shone, twelve leagues beyond the Sound, where they were taken by the country people, and brought again to Copenhagen : they did not live long however, but soon pined to death, perhaps because they were afterwards more firma. ly guarded than before five of these savages were put in their boats, to row for the entertainment of an ambassador from the court of Spain at Copenhagen; and though they had only one oar, and their vessel was extremely small, they kept pace with a boat of sixteen oars. Their performance pleased the ambassador very much, and he rewarded them liberally; in confess quench
,quelle of which, a lively fit seized them, and .wish the money they equipped themselves after the German fashion, with boots, spurs, &c. offering to serve the king, on horseback: this proposal after wards appeared to be policy, that they might be less watched, and able the more easily to accomplish their escape, which two of them once more accordingly attempted; one of them was overtaken, the other undoubtedly fwallowed'up by the waves. I was believed that he who had outstripped his pur seers, must have had a family in his own country, as he never saw a woman with a child in her arms I without sighing bitterly they all died of melancholy, one soon after an. other, except two who survived about twelve years; when one of them being employed by the governor of Coldingenwin diving forpeafl, of which there is great plenty in the muscles .about that place, was by the governor's avarice kept so very hard to work that he died of' fatigue; being compelled to dives even in the midst of winter, under thence: the other being inconsolable, once more put to sea, and pad died absolutely thirty leagues from land; but as brought back again; and when the impossibility of his ever reaching Greenland was set forth to him he seemed to be of: another opinion, and answered, that he would have run along the chaff of Norway to a certain point, and then crossed the seas by the direction of the stars. This poor'fellow lived but' a short time after this attempt, the bad-success of which broke his heart. During all the time they lived in Denmark they manifested vast stupidity; for they were scarcely able, though great pains were taken with' them, to' learn a smattering of the Danish tongue; and re gaining totally ignorant of the Christian faith, tho' several learned men laboured hard in their instruction i yet they appeared to have a notion of rome fortin of
of worship, as they were often seen to lift their eyes to heaven, and pay devotion to the rising-fun. They were well-set, but-short men, of a swarthy complexion, with fat notes and thick lips.,We cannot account for the loss of Old Green. land in a more probable manner, than by suppl. sing the ice from the north-west to have flopped up the passage betwixt it and Iceland, where it may have the more easily gathered, as the Iceland chronicle mentions many islands-and rocks between the lands, and that in endeavouring to recover it, the mariners were driven upon Cape Farewel and Da vies's Straits, so as to find out the country called New Greenland.,CHAP. IV. rr. Chancellor lays the foundation of a trade to Rufia,,by harbouring in port St. Nicholas same account of Sir Hugh Willoughby's voyage to the Frozen Sea, in search of a nritb-eafi passage ; and of bis death; together with that of all his people by cold. Spitz. bergen sirs discovered. ' F F T E R the discovery of the Cape of Good Aj Hope, and afterwards of China and Japan by the Portuguese, other nations essayed to find a shorter passage to these .countries, by the north and north-west sides of America ; and then by the north-earl: this last was first attempted by the English in the reign of Edward VI. when many ol the leading men of the nation having formed them' selves into accompany for discovering unknown countries Fitted out three ships under the command o Sir Hugh Willoughby and Richard Chancellor, to sii;d out (if possible) a north-east passage through the kea Js Tartary to China.,Chan,
Chancellor was separated from the rest, off the height of Wardhuis and Lapland, in foggy windy weather; and having cruised for rome time in those seas, with a view of rejoining them, put by chance into the bay of St. Nicholas belonging to Muscovy, and not at all frequented by Europeans. Here he found the grand duke at war with the Livonia: however, he waited on that prince, with whom he entered into a treaty of commerce, and established a trade that has been fiulce pursued by the English with great succession Hugh having long wandered about, at length made land in the severity second degree, which has in many maps been since filed Sir Hugh Willoughby country; whence he pursued his course along the coast, till he entered an obscure harbour of Lapland, called Arena Keceas, into which he was forced by the approach of winter; from this place he dispatched three men to the south-west, to view the country and discover the inhabitants ; but these returning without having been able to learn any thing, or finding any marks of its being peopled, he sent others to the west and south-east, who had as little success as the former the country appeared thus desolate at that time, because when the winter approaches, the inhabitants retire to the inland parts, which are warmer than the sea side, where they generally live during the summer. In this harbour, some fisher-men, who came that way accidentally the ensuing year, discovered Sir Hugh Willoughby and the crews of his two ships, to the amount of seventy-two persons, frozen to death, with his diary lying in his cabin, from whence this account of his expedition is ex traded: his corpse was brought to London by an English (hip, belonging to the Russia trading com any, where it was honourably interred,,N 3 The
TheEnglifh, in consequence of'this trade, become. ing acquainted with the northern coasts, and observe. ing many sea-horses in those seas, dispatched several lips to catch them, chiefly for the sake of their teeth, which were easily esteemed at Muscovy.,The sea-horse is very strong, large as an ox, with four feet and a very thick hide, some times weighing above four hundred pounds; he has a great head, and two teeth as white as ivory, each a foot long, and for these they are so eagerly hunt. ed. They are very fond of their young, and some. times bring forth two at one time: they are not easily caught when in the water, being of prodigious (irength,- but there is not much difficulty in seizing them on the ice, where their unwieldy bulk and short legs prevent them from making any con Alterable defiance. They mus be also struck on the head, every-other part of them being almost invulnerable. They are called horses by the Russians and walniffets by the Hollanders.,Their fief produces good oil: at first they were found in plenty about that place which the Dutch call the Island of Bears, and the English Cherry,as-nd; but experience of man's cruelty taught them to retire to the sea at his approach, where fishing for them is both dangerous and difficulties the year 161o, the English trading company aforesaid, sent John Pool into the Frozen Sea, who advanced as far as Spitzbergen, which is supposed to be part of Greenland, and was discovered in 1i96, by the Dutch, in their third voyage to Nova Zenobia. Hereabouts having observed a vast num ber of whales, the company sent two ships under his care the year following to sith for them X and he had great success: but both his lips being accidentally lost, he and his crews were brought home by an English vessel, driven into that latitude by chance.,In
In 1612, two more Englifl ships sailed thither on the same errand; and meeting with a Dutch vessel on the coast,. obliged it to return home empty. In 1613, this company having obtained a patent from king James, excluding all others, as well na times as foreigners, from the benefit of this trade, they sent out seven vessels of force, which drove away the ships of every nation and company, their own country vessels, not excepted: but the two following years the Dutch had the hest of it, turn ing the tables upon them, and keeping the trade to themselves, protected by eighteen flout vessels, and four frigates of thirty guns each, while the Englifl being only fifteen strong, did not dare to dispute the point. However, in r616 and 1617 they had the ascendant of the Dutch; but in I618 the latter returned with a very firing squadron, and not only opposed; but fell upon and plundered the Englifl, obliging them, in a very hostile man ner, to retire the contest continued long, till both sides being heartily tired of it, the passage was left open to ad venturers of all nations the Dutch founded their claim upon having been the first discoverers of it, and the Englifl insisted on the same privilege, saying, this must be the'coun- try found out by Sir Hugh Willoughby, who had perhaps mistaken the degrees, and for 77 set down 72, there being no other country under those de green. The king of Denmark also alledged a right to it, as supposing it to be part of Old Greenland, which had been tributary to the crown of Norway ; and he seconded his allegation with some men of war; but they were too weak to force other na tions, as he intended, to acknowledge his superiority or pay him tribute.,N4 C.H A P.
CHAP. V. The animal and vegetable productions of Spitzbergen; together with the climate of the country de. scribed: same account of the djirint sorts of walk and the manner snatching them, and extraefir, the oil. Spitzbergen, or New Greenland, ij the most northern land with which we are ac quaint, and extends from seventy-fix to eighth degrees; it is named Spitzbergen, from its piquet mountains, which are seen a vast way at sea, ane have no firm-bottom, being composed of a coarse sand, intermixed with a fall flat stone, something like our Hate. It is inhabited only by white bears which live on the ice, and are as large and throne as oxen; foxes-of different colours, as grey, white, black; and rain-deers, animals shaped like flags, but of a less size, and having smoother horns: they feed on a sort of pale green moss that sprouts among the sand and stones, and while the snow is thick on the ground are very lean ; but soon as it begins to melt they thrive surprisingly fast, and often have two inches of fat on their ribs; they rather ap. proach than avoid men; and though they disperse at the firing of a gun, they con return to the same spot, and are so tame that they may be seized by the horns, or easily ihot.,The country is extremely cold; and tho' in form mer the fun continues more than six weeks above the horizon, making but one continued day, yet is the severity of the weather but thereby little abated; the clearer the Sky appears, the more intensely sharp is the air: to this severity the damps rifingfrom the hills make a considerable addition; the air is often so foggy, that it is hard to distinguish beyond a,(hip's
ship's length; To that nothing but insatiate avarice could induce mankind to visit such an inhospitable shore-the soil is productive of neither Shrubs nor trees;. but the boilers of oil find, notwithstanding, suffi, cheney of fuel, a vail quantity of timber being thrown. ashore with every tide, though from. whence cannot be easily explained; and this is the case ir all these northern domains. Here are found Ime wild ducks, and a few other fowls, especially par rots, which differ from those of the Indies in their want of docility, and in having webbed feet; but there are no small fife, except a few haddocks ,The coast is now annually frequented by sips of all nations, on account of the while; the oil, which is extracted from that fish, being a commo city that yields considerable profit; and every count. try has its peculiar harbour or station, where are fixed coppers, huts, and the instruments used in ex trading the oil,. and these they leave behind theme' when they quit the coast for the season the fates general have granted a patent trofme particular persons, exclusive of all others, for catch ing whales at Spitzbergen . yet there are several Dutch adventurers that come upon the Greenland coat,. and never go ashore, but bunt the whales in the sea, and cut their flesh into small pieces, which they barrel up and carry to Holland, where they boil the oil out of them as at Spitzbergen ; but there is a rankness about it, arising from the flesh having been so long kept, that makes it disagreeable and of somewhat less value than the company's oil.,The whales are divided into two different daft ses, the black and the white;. and these are again subdivided into many others: the white whale is so. called, from having a shield of white cockle-shells cn his back. Of the black whales there are many,N 5 different
different kinds; among which that called the sin. fflh is but little sought for,. being as fierce as it is. lean ;the two principal sorts are those who have but one pipe or vent in the head, whence is taken. the sherman cet;. and that called the grand bay,. which is the. richest and largest, and consequently that which is molly esteemed. Of this, and the manner of catching it, we shall proceed to give a. short description the grand: bay is very bulky and unwieldy,. therefore not. hard to be catched; its head is equal. to one third of its whole body; the eyes not larger. than those of an ox, nor the eye-ball bigger than a pea: in the place of ears, it has two small holes,. scarcely perceptible; but within the head,-immedi- lately under these, are ears well formed, whereby it. has a sharp sensation : it has two pipes on the top. of the head, that. serve the double office of breath ing, and discharging the water that it swallows, which is thence often spurted to-a considerable height,. in very great quantities his tongue is about six hundred. pounds weight, eighteen feet long and ten broads-of such a height that the tallest man can't overlook it; it is en closed by thick hairs, not unlike horse-hairs, which are fastened to the stuff we call whale-bone, of which there are about eight hundred platted toge ther in his mouth, which.is between four and five fathoms wide; his lips are broad and thick, weigh ing not less than six thousand pounds: he has no teeth: his swallow is extremely narrow; and there is seldom found any thing in his intestines but a nos that is cast up from the sea's bottom, and a species >f spiders, that often cover the surface of the water, and are by sailors regarded as. a sure sign of a whale being near at hand ; but these are not thought to contribute much to his nourish ment, for it is generally believed that sea-water is,his
his principal food, wherewith these are advent tious.,From the head to-the middle it is very thick, but decreases gradually towards the tails at there'd of which it is about two foot thick, and near twenty seven feet long in the whole; the tail is often uidfd for a chopping-block, being stronger and better adapted to that purpose than almost any wood ; in this, and its sins, which do not stand upright as in other fish when it swims, consists its chief strength. The privities of the male are on the outside, as in four-legged creatures;. the yard is near four teen feet long and one foot thick; those of the fe. male are something like a. woman's and open and shut as occasion requires; The melmoth brings forth more than one young one at a time, which follows her every where, and sucks at her breast. The male is between sixty and seventy feet long, and the female is larger than the male the sword-fish is common in these seas; it is. about two yards and a half long,. of great strength,. and often, when struck with the harpoon, flies. so swiftly and impetuously, that the line is forced. to be cut, no boat being able to keep pace with it This fishes a bitter foe to the whale, which avoids. it. as much as he possibly can; but numbers of them attack him at once, and by degrees pull away. his sins in which lie his chief strength, while he lathes round him with his tail, and endeavours to break from them, till his strength being exhausted, .they enter his mouth and eat out his tongue; and to this cause are owing the many dead whales that are found floating on the surface without tongues the unicorn fish is also a professed enemy to the whale, striking its horn as deeply into his side as it will reach, whensoever it chances. to meet: him ,N 6- The
The whale is generally catched ib this manner three shallows are sent after him, with. six men in each, one of whom carries the harpoon, an inflru. ment hooked and bearded, that it may not flip out again when struck into this unweildy animal; they keep out of the way of his tail, and either lye on'their oars, or skim very gently on, to pre. vent his hearing them: then the harpooner of that shallop that is most convenient for the work takes aim and lets fly his weapon, which is fastened to a line two hundred fathomless, or more; this is no sooner felt by the whale, than he dives with such celerity to the bottom, that if the men did not take care to keep the rope wet, which smokes pretty much, it would take fire by rubbing against the boat; there is also a man always upon the-watch to give the rope as the whale goes, because, should it chance to be intangled, the boat might be in dan ger of oversetting. If the line of one boat falls short, it is assisted by that which is next at hand, which lends wherewith to lengthen it; but all would be little to the purpose, were not the whale corn pellet to rise for breath, after having run some few hundred fathoms under water, and when he rites, he roars prodigiously, the sound reaching more than half a league. No sooner does he appear upon the surface a second time, than the harpooner shrikes him again; after which stroke, lances, that can be easily drawn out of the wound they make, are thrown at him, with an intention to tire him out, till his strength is exhausted; for until this is the case, none of the sailors dare venture within reach of his sins or his tail; then they come nearer, and endeavour to lacerate him under the sins, where he seems to have the greatest fenfibility,'till having at length struck him either in the lungs or liver, he spurts out blood high as the top-mast head of a very large ship; upon this effusion he is left to struggle by,I
ai~~~~I,~~i ~~k~-~~-~
himself, when he haters his body with his sins, and strikes the ways-with his tail so vigorously that it sounds likE the explosion of a large-cannon, and the sea round him is in a foam: all this time he is obliged to remain upon the surface for breath; and the. gallops sometimes are forced to follow him for three or four leagues, till having lost his strength, he falls on one side; and as soon as he 'is.- dead, turns upon his back; then he is either drawn on shore, or else up to the flip. For the first day he lies even with the surface; the second, he riles six or seven feet above it; and the third, perhaps higher than the sides of the vest,' on board of which there is a man ready to cut him up; and when his belly is opened ,there issues out a roar ing noise, and a moR offensive smell: then the man proceeds to separate the flesh from the horses,. and conveys it in pieces of two or three hundred pound weight, either on board or on bore, ac cording to convenience, where it is again cut into smaller pieces, and put into a copper in which the oil is boiled out, and barrelled up to be sent to different nations.,On board of every (hip are threeharpooners, who have ten pounds each for every whale that is caught, and sometimes one ship catches nine or ten: each fish, upon'an average, affords from sixty to an turn. died barrels of oil, which sells from three to four pounds per barrel, and sometimes more. For the encouragement of this trade, the parliament of Great Britain have granted a premium of forty shillings for every ton of shipping used by the Green land traders, an! encouragement that has confider ably increased the number of ships on. that' trade within these few years.,CHA P.
CH A P. VI. ne voyage of captain Monk to th#-Frozen Sea,.,OW that.we have given a brief and succinct account of Old and New Greenland, and the whale fishery, we will proceeded the. voyage of captain Monk, in search of a. north-weft passage between Greenland andAmericato the East-indies, and we have chosen him, as having been not only one of the best seamen of his time, but also a man of such integrity, that not one-who has followed the same course has been since able to.contradi&i him in any one point whatsoever;.,Captain Monk was employed upon this expedition by Christian IV. King. of Denmark,. who supplied him with two sout ships, manned with sixty-four. men, to coast along those freights, to which Hud son an Englishman gave his name, who had been, a.sew years before, destroyed-on. this coast by his people mutinying ,May the i6:h, 1619, Monk left the Sound, and' on the both of June made Cape Farewel, a rocky. land covered with ice and snow, and lying in sixty two degrees and an half north latitude;: thence fleering north-west to Hudson's- Streights, he was. sometimes delayed by the ice,. but not damaged, hav ing sea-room enough; what-was most remarkable hereabouts was, that one day the wind blew so hard,. and was so very cold, that his sails became like a continued piece of ice, and were quite useless; yet the following afternoon was so sultry, that the men. were forced to strip off their cloaths,, and work in their (hires july the 17th he arrived in Hudson's Streights,. to which, in honour of his Danish majesty, heave
gave the name of.Chriftiern's Streights, and landed in an island directly. opposite to Greenland, where some of his people taking a- view. of the country,. could discover the footsteps of men, though they saw no other appearance of their However, some casein fight the next day, who seemed surprised at the Danes-and advanced towards them in a friendly. manner, keeping tilled watchful eye on their arms,. which they, had hid: beneath' an heap. of' tones;, from which the Danes contrived to cut them off,, a piece of policy that gave the poor savages vast un. easiness, they begging, in a mos suppliant manner,, to have them restored; and by signs giving to un understand, they had no other livelihood or subsist. once. Their entreaties were at length successful,. the Danes not only restoring them their arms, but. also presenting them with some trifling toys; for' which favours they expressed their gratitude, by. bringing down .to the hips several sorts of.filh and' fowl.,A small looking-glass being presented to one of' them, he seemed overjoyed at the acquisition; and. having viewed himself' in it two or three times,, hugged it close to his bosom, and then ran away. as fast as possible; as if he feared they would take: it from him these poor people treated, with particular marks. of respect, one of Monk's people, who had long black hair, and was of swarthy complexion, not. unlike themselves, imagining perhaps that he was a native of the place, carried thence in his infant: years to Denmark, and this distinction. afforded a. good deal of diversion to the rest of. his brother: tars.,On the 22d of July he left this .sand entirely,, but was obliged, on account of the many ice shoals, to come to anchor on the 28th, between two islands where there was some shelter; here he brought his,Ihips
ships as close to the shore sone of them as pos. bible, and even there it required prodigious indus. try to protect them from being. damaged by the ice that was hourly driven against them by the waves, In this place they found some good talc, of which they carried off several tons. There were man) .small islands thereabouts, but the sea ran. too high for them to venture at landing. They lie in sixty two degrees and twenty minutes, about fifty league, within Hudson's Streights; and Monk called the bay wherein he anchored Hereford, from the great number of hares that were to be met with there.,Auguf the both he left this fiction, fleering west south-west, with the wind at. north-west, and the next day came to the south of the freights of A. america, and anchored near a large island covered with snow, which he therefore called Snow Island.,He left this on the 20th of August, and steered north-west and west north-west to Hudson's bay, till he arrived in sixty-three degrees twenty minutes, where he determined to winter, calling the place New Denmark, and the part in which he was, Monk's Winter harbour. Here his hips were bawled up in a little creek, where they were feel. tered from the inclemency of the weather; after which precaution his people proceeded to ere hut: for their winter-residence, near a river that was not froze in October, when all the surrounding seas were bound in ice.,Odober the; th, captain Monk would have gone up the river in a boat, but was prevented by a wa ter-fall, but he made an incursion of four leagues into the country in search of inhabitants, to no purpose, and then returned to his ships by another road. In his way he met with an image cut up on stone, which had claws and horns like a. devil, and near it were about eight feet of ground walled in by lesser stones; on one side of which lay an,heap
heap of final flat stones, intermixed with knots of trees; and on the other three coals laid across, up on a large flat stone supported by two others, and somewhat like an altar: he afterwards met several other piles of this sort; and. near them the marks of human feet; notwithstanding which, he could not come in sight of any inhabitants. It is not im probable that in there places they offered sacrifice, either to, or with fire, as many bones lay gene rally near them, belonging to the victim perhaps, on whose raw flesh it may be that the sacrificers fed. Here were also some muzzled dogs, and flumps of trees, from examining which they appeared to have been cut at the roots by iron instruments; also holes in the ground, which appeared to have been formed to receive poles belonging to tents, and many pieces of skins of bears, wolves, sea-calves, &c. which) it is supposed, are the cloathing of. the Inhabitants, who from there things Morn inferred a vagrant life, like the people of Tartary and Lapland.,Having run up compact huts, .and laid in tore of wood and wild-fowl for the winters Monk was lucky enough to kill a white bear with his own hand, of the flesh of which he and his people eat; nor did it disagree with them in the leather had also plenty of hares, partridges, and other fowls, betides black foxes and fables.,CHAP,
C H A P. VII. Aflrnk loss all his crew, two people excepted, hy the,told, and at length returns to Denmark: concerts. second expedition to the Northern Sea but catch his death from an odd circumstances V E MB E R 27th they saw what they ia. gained to be three suns, and two on the 24th of January; and on the Both of December old style, about eight o'clock at night, was a lunar eclipse; soon after which the moon was surrounded by a very bright circle, and intersected by a cross, This phenomenon seemed a forerunner ofthe evils that afterwards beset them the cold began now to grow so very severe, that neither beer, wine, nor brandy, could. resist it, but W s moment up, and'the vessels that contained.th'. were split into pieces; so that before they could use them, they were obliged to hew them with hatchets, and melt them before the fire: nay, they saw ice three hundred and sixty feet thick: not were the Danes able to refill, with all their art and contrivance, this severe invader; for they were carried off, one after another so fa, by a griping looseness, that in the beginning of March the cap. tain himself was obliged to stand sentry in his turn for want of hands.,In the spring,. the sickness of those who survive grew worse; their teeth loosening and their gum! swelling, so that they could take no nourishment but bread and water; soon after which malady 2 most inveterate scurvy added new weight to their afflictions; and in May they. died so sati, that there were not hands sufficient left. behind to inter them and those were scarce able to move with weakness and. disorder: to complete their woes their brea(,faile 0
failed them; in the room of which they-dug raf berries from ,under the snow; but these became useless if not presently consumed. The first rain they had seen in seven months was on the x2th of April; and about the end of May they had wild-geese, ducks, swans, swallows, part ridges, ravens, snipes, falcons and eagles; but it was not in their power to catch any of them, they were so debilitated. June the 4th, Monk himself fell dangerous ill, and was for,, days without taking any sustenance; during which time he made his will, entreating. whatsoever person should chance to come that way,. to see him buried, and transmit his journal to the: king of Denmark: however, on the 8th he grew. stronger, and crept out of his hut to see if anryof' his flip's crew were left alive; and he found only two surviving out of sixty-four. These, overjoyed to find their captain had escaped so many calamities,. carried him to a fire, and refreshed him; and the three encouraged one another with assurances of mutual assistance to the lass gasp The ice. now. began to melt, and among the snow they chanced to find a root which. proved a great restorative, as well as excellenCfood, strengthening them very con miserably; and they applied themselves to filling' and. hunting, an exercise which brought them quite to themselves, and. they now. began.to think of re. turning home the summer season, which approached, brought with it plenty of gnats that. pestered them extreme ly; nevertheless, they got on board their smaller ship,. leaving the other behind, and hoisted sail; but they were incommoded greatly by the ice, and lost; their boat and rudder: however, the former they recovered by chance, ten days after, and they sup plied the other loss by making anew rudder They.,were.
were often entangled among the ice, but were fAi released by the changeableness. of the weather. On the 8th of September, having cleared the Streights and Cape Farewel, and reached the main ocean, they were assailed by a violent tempest tha brought their mast by the board; and it was not without great difficulty they preserved their sail from being wasted into the Tea. However, they at last made shift to reach the coast of Norway, where they anchored in a small creek; and here, as the form continued, they would certainly have been dashed to pieces had they not luckily put-in between the rocks and the land. Having re. fresher themselves a few days, they pursued their voyage to Denmark, where they shortly after ar. rived; and captain Monk, whom no body expel. ed ever to see alive, was received by the king with great marks of favour, his majesty being well satis. sied with his endeavours captain Monk, who was a man of an undaunted spirit, as well as an excellent mathematician, hav Ing always after his return insisted upon the poli. ability of discovering a north-well passage, was at length employed by some of the Danish nobility, and several rich merchants of Norway to attempt it, having raised a good joint flock to defray the expences of his voyage; but he was unfortunately prevented, and the design entirely ruined by an ac cedent not to be foreseen.,In a conference which Monk had with the king, concerning the misfortunes of his former voyage, and his new enterprize, his majesty observed, that he hal already occasioned the loss of too many brave fellows, to hazard it again. This was a far. calm, which Monk imagined his perseverance and fill had not in the leat deserved; and he replied, in a manner that the king thought disrespectful, who thereupon gave him a slight blow on the,breaP
breast with his slick, by way of repulse; an indignity which offered him so strongly, that he went home directly and pined to death in three days, during which he refused all manner of nourishment Nor do we find that the Danes have made any farther advances towards this discovery since that time, though indisputably no nation in Europe is so well adapted to the undertaking as Den marked. of the THIRÂ» VOLUME.
Compendium



Of Authentic and Entertaining

o



Digested in a Chronological Series.

The whole exhibiting

A clear View of the Customs,' Manners,
Religion, Government, Commerce,
and Natural History of molt Nations
in the Known World.

Illustrated and adorned with a Variety of genuine Charts,
Maps, Plans, Heads, Sec. curiously engraved.


VOL. IV.


LONDON:


Printed for R. and J. Dudley; Jo. Livingston;
Ja. Livingston and J. Fletcher ; W. Johnston ;
W. Strain j and T. [effects.

MDCCLVX.







<\§ 1 )




r



f ca \

I Historical j
\ MEOfOAL /








mini imiiiH Sip »»»»» ™


^rtliEaZf
I-and


Smith Tale.
Crop Hoa

Charles II


Witches X


'om ■



















































































































































A


COLLECTION

O F

VOYAGES.*



A brief Narrative of the wonderful
Preservation of Eight Men, who were
left behind by their Ships Company
in the Year 1630, on the Coast of
Greenland, .


N the year 1630, three ships were sent by
the Russia company of London, to fish for
whale and seahorse upon the Greenland
coast; one-of them was called the Salutation,
which having arrived with a fair wind
at the place other destination, after a few days cruize,
sent her shallop ashore with eight mqi to catch venison,
furnishing them with a brace of dogs, a firelock,
two lances, and a tinder-box; she at that time riding
within four leagues of Black-point, and five of
Maiden-paps, a place noted for plenty of excellent
deer.

On the 15 th of June, it being a fine clear day,
the shallop made the land in about four hours ; and
her men going ashore soon killed fourteen good deer ;
after which success, being quite fatigued, what with
Vol. IV. * B rowing





2 RELATION OF EIGHT MEN .

rowing .and what with hunting, they sat down to
a meal of such victuals as they had brought
with them; then night coming on, they agreed to
rest just where they were, being all of opinion it
would be dangerous, and perhaps to no purpose,
to seek the vessel in the dark.

Next morning, the weather being thick, the
wind driving hard at south, and much ice betwixt
the shore and the strip, tie was forced to
sheer farther to seaward, out of sight of the shallop ;
and this motion, for which the men of the Shallop
could not account, giving them some alarm, they
thought it their best course to hunt along the
shore till they came to Green Harbour, where another
of the concert ships was stationed, with which
they unanimously agreed it was best to slay till they
should hear tidings of their own ship, which they
had some reason to fear was inclosed among the
drift-ice.

- In their way to Green Harbour, keeping close
to the shore, they brought down eight more deer,
all which they put on board the shallop : but on
the 17th, when they reached their intended point,
to their great mortification, they found the other
flip was departed ; a misfortune not more unexpected
than surprising, as it was certain she
had not a sufficient flock of provision for a homeward
bound voyage. However, as it wanted but
three days of the time limited for the ships to depart
from the coast, they were extremely uneasy,
fully knowing the ill consequences of a delay; and
this determined them to endeavour to reach Bell-sound,
which was a place appointed as a general
rendezvous. And to lighten the shallop that she
might make more way, they heaved all their venison
overboard. From Green Harbour to Bell Sound
they computed the distance to be sixteen leagues,
and that night reached the point of Nest, which
they supposed to be about half way 7 but here they

were






PRESERVED IN GREENLAND. 3

were obliged to come to anchor in a pretty secure
Ration, between two rocks, there being so thick a
fog abroad, that they could not see at above a foot
from them. But the weather clearing up, about
noon next day, they left this cove, and laboured
hard at the oars without coming in sight of Bell-sound,
which they overshot at lead ten leagues
to the southward, towards Horn Sound: nor will
this mistake appear very wonderful, if we confider
that they had no compass on board, nor one
man who was right sure of the land when he saw
it.

However, after some deliberation, it was determined
that they had gone too far southward ; upon
which, in spite of the obstinate persuasion of
William Fakely the gunner, they went upon a
northward tack, which was the right course,
and soon brought them up within two miles
of the point; when the weather being clear, the
high land was very plain; which William Fakely
narrowly observing, darted up in a passion, and
told the company, he was sure they were upon a
wrong course, for the land before them had not
the smaller appearance of Bell-Sound ; upon which
the boat's crew was once again unhappily persuaded
to deer away to the southward, a circumstance
which was the cause of their subsequent misfortunes.

Having continued a long while in this course,
the people began in earned to think that Bell-sound
could not lye to the southward; for which
reason they resolved again to go north, a resolution
which irritated the opinionated gunner so
much, that he refused to deer any longer ; and
abandoned the guiding oar to the care of Edward
Pelham. The shallop ran before the wind, which
was large, and on the 2 1 d came in sight of the
Found, out of which the wind jut then coming
about, • blew at eat north-eat, so that they were

B 2 forced








4 RELATION OF EIGHT MEN

forced to take in their sails, and apply to their
oars, by the help of which they came two miles
within the shore; where they coved, being obliged
either to do so, or drive to leeward.

They were all now convinced not only that this
was Bell-Sound, but that it was the very place on
which they had a few days before turned their
backs ; even William Fakely being obliged to acknowledge
the same truth : they fir ft sought a convenient
harbour for the shallop, in which having secured
her, two of the sailors were dispatched overland
to the tent at Bell-Sound, which was ten
miles from them, to see if there were any signs of
the Blips, of which they had but little hope, as there
had been a fair wind for them outward, and the time
allotted for their slay here was expired. The
messengers returned without being able to bring
any news of the Blips ; however, they resolved to
leave no place untried, where there was a probability
of the Blips flaying; wherefore they agreed
to visit Bottle-Cove, about three leagues distant on
the other side of the Sound, which place they reached
the dad, but to no purpose ; for there was not
the 1-eafl hope of consolation or relief.

After a mature and melancholy scene of deliberation,
the result of which was only a mutual exhortation
of each other to rely upon the divine
protection, and bear undauntedly the distresses
that learned to threaten them, it was resolved to
seek the bell means possible of securing themselves
from the attacks of the winter; and the horrid
inconveniences, to v, which, thus void of all necessaries
and comforts, they must necessarily be exposed.
The first great shep towards this security,
was judged to belaying in a flock of provision, for
which purpose it was generally agreed to go to
Green Harbour to kill venison with the first fair
Ww other.

Accordingly





PRESERVED IN GREENLAND. 5

Accordingly they put out the shallop, fleering
for that place, August the 2$th, and the wind
being very favourable, they arrived at it in twelve
hours. Here fixing their oars fall in the ground
and throwing over them the sail of the final-lop,
they formed a poor sort of a tent, and
reposed under it for that night; which being
very fair and clear, they took but a short nap ;
but rose betimes to set out for Coles Park, a
place whither they went by advice of Thomas
Ayres, who knew it to be well stored with venison
; and here they not only killed seven deer, but
four bears the same day; ail which they intended
to shore up for food.

But the weather beginning to grow cloudy and
unfit for hunting, they made the best of their way
back to Green Harbour, where they erected a
tent, as before described, of their sails and oars,
and having eat of such food as they had, sept
pretty well for that night. Next morning, it
being fair dry weather, leaving John Dawes
and William Fakely, to take care of the tent,
and prepare victuals to refresh them at their
return, they went on board the shallop, and
steered towards Coles Park; where they had
not been long, before they killed six deer
with the help of their dogs, out of seven which
they saw feeding on the side of a hill. As
the weather was dull, they did not now choose to
go farther than this hill, round which they continued
to skirt all day, bringing down six deers
more ; but, night drawing on apace, with wind
and rain, they made what haste they could to
their lent for that night, where they continued
ali the ensuing day, it being cold, wet and stormy.

On the shore they found another shallop,
belonging to the company's Chips, which always
leave two or three behind them ; on board of this

B 3 therefore


6 RELATION OF EIGHT MEN

therefore and their own together, having Rowed
their provision, which confided of bears, venison,
and the greaves of the whales that had been boiled
here this year, they divided themselves into two
companies, intending for Bell Found, where they
had determined to winter. But the approach of
night prevented them from proceeding for that
time ; and the next day being Sunday, they chose
not to., dir out, but rather to keep the sabbath
with proper respect; and set off in the morning,
with fine weather, but then they could reach only
half way on Monday; and on Tuesday came to
Bottle-Cove, where the wind being high, they
remained till next day. In the mean time, it
blew so hard, and the sea ran so high, that their
shallops, ladled to each other, were both filled with
water, and the provisions not only wetted, but
some of it a flu ally washed over board; so that
they were obliged to wade to recover them as
well as their shallops, which by main strength
they heaved upon the shore, where they saddened
them with a hawser and grapnels; and here they
resolved to let them lie till the wind should come
about to favour their expedition to Bell Sound;
which they made without any spider accident on
the 3d of September.

■ Here their find care was to unlade their provision
and lay it up carefully in their tent, that being
the place defined for their winter habitation ;
but it is nectary to inform the reader, that this
was a tent very different from that which they had
before contrived to make out of the fhailop’s fails
and oars. For this was a kind of house built by
Flemings, for the use of such of the low countries
merchant ships as pursued the fishery on this coat;
It was composed of timber pretty substantially
joined and covered with Flemish tiles, it was about
eighty feet long and fifty broad, its principal use

being




PRESERVED IN GREENLAND. 7

being to shelter the coopers, while they were employed
in making casks for the train oil.

The weather being now become cold, and
the frosts severe, there was no venturing another
voyage to Green Harbour at any rate, left the
Sound should be so frozen as to hinder their return
by sea; and by land it was too rugged and
mountainous to be attempted : so that they were
obliged for this time to give over all farther
thoughts of deer hunting, and apply themselves to
making their habitation as warm and compact as
circumstances would admit. For this purpose,
they bethought them of making a lesser tent within
the great one; and were supplied with deal
boards, polls, and rafters, from a small one built
in the neighbourhood of the other, for the reception
of the company's oil. The chimneys
of the furnaces furnished them with bricks, and by
great good luck they found four hogsheads of fine
lime, which mixed with the sea-sand made an excellent
cement.

While Fakely and Pelham were employed in
building a wall of the thickness of one brick within
the great tent against the inner planks, all the
rest laboured at their different appointments ; for
while one pulled down the chimneys, another
cleaned the bricks, and a third carried them in
baskets to the masons; on the other hand was one
tempering the mortar, a second forming the boards,
and another curing venison. As their bricks only
served to raise two Tides of the new building,
they were obliged to make the other two with
wood; accordingly they erected their posts,
which were a foot in diameter, at proper distances
one from another, and nailed boards on each
side, so that the middle was a hollow, which they
filled up with lime and sand rammed in as hard as

B 4 possible,



8 RELATION OF EIGHT MEN

possible, whereby the air was effectually kept out, .
and the place made surprizingly warm.

The whole was covered with deals interlining
each other five or six times, and leaving not
the failed: cranny open ; the chimney was a vent
into the greater tent, which served them at the
same time by way of window; for they had
removed a few tiles from the top, and made
thereby a hole that admitted light, and gave passage
to the smoak. The door they lined with a
bed, that when it was shut, quite flopped up all
the chinks.

The next work they went upon was making
four cabins, wherein they chummed two and two,
the deer skins dried making a very warm and
agreeable sort of bed ; for firing, they pulled in
pieces seven old unserviceable shallops that lay
upon the shore, and piled the pieces, with some
other fuel they had collected, over the beams,
whereby they provided against the snows coming
quite down on them, should it by any chance penetrate
thro the tiles.

The days now growing cold, or rather the
nights, for day-light there was scarcely any, they
kept good fires, and in order to make the mod of
their fuel, when they went to red, they raked up
all the ashes and embers together over a piece of
elm, which when opened, after lying perhaps sixteen
hours, yielded a very great heat; and by these
means with proper care, their fuel faded eight
months, during which their fire never once went
out.

September the 12th, there came some drift ice
into the Sound, upon one piece of which spying
two sea horses sad asleep, they put out the
boat, and taking an old harpoon and a rope, approached
them gently that they might not wake until
they were very near; when William Fakely made

so






PRESERVED IN GREENLAND. 9

\ ,

so excellent a Broke at the old one, that the harpoon
Ruck sad in her, and she could not disengage herself,
but was soon killed with a lance, as was also
the young one whose affection for its parent was
such, that it warn close to the boat when the body
of its dam was taken in ; nor did it shew the flight
ed: inclination to escape. They were soon haled
ashore, and when roasted afforded a mod: plentiful
meal.

The 19th of September, there were many others
in the Sound, but they being more watchful, only
one of them was taken. .

About the 10th of October, the cold grew very
bitter, the seas were frozen as far as the eye' could
stretch; and as their cloaths began to be
tattered, and those were warmed: which were in
the belt condition, they made needle of whalebone,
and thread out of rope-yarn, with which
they did their bed endeavour to keep their rag?
together. From one of the coolers they ripped a
piece of lead, of which making a sort of lamp,
they put into it feme rope yarn for candlewick;
and supplying it with oil found in the coopers tent,
made a light which was very comfortable.

From a neighbouring list there ran a constant
dream, which sailing into a sort of reservoir near
at hand, served them for drink, as they took care
to clear away the ice from it daily with their pickaxes
; and this agreeable refreshment they enjoyed
till January, when the from became so hard, they
were deprived of it, and forced to have recourse to
snow-water melted with hot irons.

About the latter end of September, finding
there was little probability of increasing their
dock of provisions, except now and then with a
chance bear, they were obliged to husband what
they had in the manner following; they’dinted

B' 5 themselves








10 RELATION OF EIGHT MEN /

themselves to one reasonable meal' of flesh a day.,
for four days in the week ; and Wednesdays and
Fridays they fed upon the greaves of whales,
which are such scraps of fat as are generally dung
away, when the oyl is pressed out of them ; and
this food they continued to eat regularly about three
months: when they were obliged to retrench
another day from eating flesh, which began to
run short; and for fear their fuel should also fail,
they roasted half a deer every day, and flowed it
in hogsheads; however, they left a quarter raw to
roast, and eat hot every Sabbath day, Christmas
and other festivals.

From Sober the 14th, to February the 3d,,
the fun was never once to be seen, but the moon
shone often with great brightness, except when
the sky was over caff ; and indeed the winter weather
here in general is dull, thick, and foggy:
there was a sort of twilight from the month of
October, to the 1 ft of December, which was totally
eclipsed till the 20th, all that time being one
entire night; but about the ifs of January, there
was some visible appearance of day again.

Pelham, from whose journal we have taken this
account, tells us that they had no almanac to di-ref!
them how the seasons past; but that he endeavoured
to divide the time into hours and days
as well as he could ; and by adding a suppose
day to the past, he found the moons age, and he
says, he was so right in his calculation that he
agreed exactly in the clay of the month that he
reckoned with the fleet that came to their relief.

By the latter end of January, they found the
day eight hours long, but they were something
dispirited, when on examining, there appeared not
more than six weeks provisions ; however, the 3d
of February being a fair clear day, and the fun
Lining with great lu'ilre, a die bear with her

cub







PRESERVED IN GREENLAND, n

cub approached their tent in search of prey, and
nothing intimidated by their appearance, advanced
upon them, and was soon killed, but the cub e-
escaped.

Having finished this valuable days work, they
retired to warm themselves; then they tallied
out again to cut up the carcass; which being divided
into importable pieces, they stored in their
tent. On this they lived for twenty days, it being
good flesh, and far beyond their venison;
but it was remarkable that the liver made their
skins peel off: and this excoriation, Pelham
remarks, was of special service to him; since
with a new skin he acquired new health, and recovered
from a bad fit of sickness.

After this period they killed several others,
among which was one at least six feet high, and they
roasted the fiefs upon wooden spits, or fried it ina
pan, which they found in the tent; the fiefs
they thought equal to any beef; and now provisions
being plenty, they no longer laid themselves
under any restrictions, but had two or three
meals a day, which made them in a short time
strong, active, and healthy. As the days
lengthened, and the weather grew fine, they had
plenty of fowls; but on the i6th of March, one
of their arrives went out, and never returned ;
nor could they * ever find out what became of
him. By this time foxes began to be numerous,
for which they laid traps, and caught upwards of
fifty, to their great satisfaction.

The fowl that is commonest about Bell-Sound,,
comes there to breed upon the hills in the spring
season; it feeds upon fish, and is about the bigness
of a duck, but the legs are placed so close under
its rump, that if it chance to alight upon the
land, the weight of its.body prefixes them down,
and almost disables them from, rising; yet, when

B 6 m





12 RELATION OF EIGHT Menin

the water, they seem to be in their natural element;
these fowls were caught in a trap made of
whalebone, and covered over with a bear skin,
the fleshy side turned outward ; their skins were
good bait for the fox traps.

The weather growing pretty warm in May,
they were able to go out daily in search of provision
; but they saw nothing worth while till the
24th, when they started a buck, at which they set
their dog ; but he was so fat and lazy, that he let
it escape.

That same day they found a large quantity of
birds eggs in the hills, thirty of which they
brought home with them; intending to have
gone out the ensuing morning and gathered above
a thousand ; but it was so cold, they were forced
to slay within, and so were deprived of ^ their
usual exercise, which was to climb the top of a
neighbouring mountain to see if the ice broke
in the Sound. This was now the case, and a
great part of it was driven to sea by an easterly
wind.

May the 25th, the sharpness of the weather
preventing them from making a sally, they were
shut up close in their tent, when two ships from
Hull flood into the Sound ; and knowing that some
men had been left there the preceding year, the
mailer manned his boat, and sent her ashore to
inquire about their fate. Here the first thing they
found upon landing, was the shallop, which had been
fitted out to go upon chacing sea-horses when the
weather permitted; they were surprized to find
her in such good trim, but could scarcely hope
that their fellow sailors were alive : however, they
advanced towards the tent, and cried hey, as they
approached ; nor were they a little astonished at
being answered ; for, Thomas Ayres being in the

outer






PRESERVED IN GREENLAND, 13

outer tent was the PrP who heard them, and accordingly
returned their signal.

The sound of voices alarmed and gave new
spirit to those who were within; they Parted up
with great alacrity, and opening their door rushed
out at once in a body, making a moil uncouth appearance,
for they were all black with foot and
smoke, and their cloaths hung in tatters : after the
Hull men had given way a little to their amazement,
they embraced these poor people with glad hearts,
and accompanied them to their dwelling, the contrivance
of which was wonderful and pleasing;
and here out of civility they partook of the fare of
the house, drinking a glass of cold water, and
taking a bit of venison, that had been roared four
months before.

When they had reed a little, and satisfied their
curiosity in examining the ingenious methods
their brethren had put in practise to keep out the
from, and preserve the connexion of soul and
body ; they all joined and went on board of one of
the (hips together, where Pelham and his companions
were treated with great humanity and tenderness.
In three days the ships to which they
belonged came into the Sound, and each man returned
to his proper birth ; but one Mason, to
whom Fakeiy, Ayres, and two others belonged,
was brutal enough to salute them with very abu-five
language, and call them runaways and deserters.
Mr. Pelham captain, whose name was
Cooler, behaved to him and the others very
kindly. They all left this place about the 20th of
Augur, and had a prosperous voyage home;
where the Russia company, in whole service they
had failed, made them all sufficient amends for the
depresses they had endured.


A Jour*











Journal kept by seven Sailors, who
wintered in the Me of St. Maurice
in Greenland, where they died
anno 1634.

Greenland company in Holland being
resolved upon puShing their discoveries as
-*»- far as possible in that part of the world,
whence they took their name, particularly with
respect to the variation of the weather, and other
curious matters that might contribute to the improvement
of astronomy, and tend to the advancing
the ease of commerce; seven bold Spirited
sailors freely offered to winter there, and keep an
exact journal of their observations of every kind.

These were accordingly left on the island of St.
Maurice in Greenland, August the 26th. 1633, the
fleet bearing away for Holland with the wind
at north-earl, and a hollow sea which continued all
night. On the 27th, there did not appear the lead:
darkness during the whole night; on the 28th it
snowed very hard, they Shared half a pound of
tobacco a man between them, which was to be a
weeks allowance, and walked out in the evening
to make observations, but Saw nothing remarkable.

The 29th was a dear fun Shiny day, and from a
high hill, which they often climbed when the
weather permitted, they discovered the Bear-mountain
very plainly. The night of the 30th
was cloudy, but that of the 31ft was clear and
starry, with a fresh gale from the north-each
From the ill to the 7th of September, the weather






JOURNAL OF SEVEN SAILORS, &c. i£

ther was pretty tollerable, with some flying flowers
of snow and rain ; but on the 8 th, the wind coming
about to the southeast, it rained very heavily ;
however it cleared up in the afternoon, and in the
beginning of the night, which was fair and Starlight,
they were alarmed with a dreadful noise, as
if something enormously heavy had fallen near them
on the ground ; for which, as it had no visible
Consequence, they could not possibly account.

On the 9th, the fun (hone so very warm, that they
stripped into their shirts to be cool ; however, it
rained in the evening; and they had changes of
this sort frequently to the 17th, some of which
time they employed in gathering herbs and falling;
and saw many sea-gulls. The wind then
changed to south-weft, and the sea was white with
foam ; but the night was very calm. On the 18th
it rained hard, and each man had a certain measure
of brandy delivered, which was to last him
for eleven days.

On the 23d, it being a heavy day, and the wind
at east, they saw a whale play near the shore, on
which they hoisted out their sloop and pursued it;
but the sky darkening fall, and a thick fog with
driving rain at the same time coming on, favoured
its total escape. The 2,6th, the weather proved
cold and frosty with the wind at east, and they
found no more falling; the cold rains, which
continued, together with very high winds from various
quarters, having rotted it in the ground.

On the 2d of October, they discovered a fine
spring of fresh water on the south part of the
ifs-and, and it froze so hard on some ponds even
on the south side, as to be able to bear a mans
Weight; the two following days were cold and
frosty ; but the 5 th, the wind being at south, it rained
so hard, that they could not stir out of their tents.
However, the cold frost returned with the succeeding





16 JOURNAL OF SEVEN SAILORS

feeding morning, and the 8th at night there was so
vio went a dorm, that they feared it would carry
away their tents; which, together with the noise
caused by a rough hollow sea, kept them all night
from keeping ; the wind veered from north to
north-eat, and was so fierce, that no ship would
have been able to outride it.

The cold now began to force them not only to
make fires, but to keep close to them, and they
were obliged to hang their linen to dry under cover
near the fire, for without doors it froze in a
minute as hard as a board. Besides, they found
themselves much altered for the worse, being
troubled with frequent vertigoes.

On the 12th they had high winds, hard frost and
heavy snow, and a barrel of bears flesh froze
within less than two yards of the fire. On the
15th, they sallied out armed with harpoons, lances,
hangers, and other offensive weapons upon
two whales that were thrown ashore ; but the tide
riling too suddenly, they were carried off with it,
not without having received some wounds.

The 19th they saw some ice to the north of the
shore, and tho the fun was up, he did not rise
above the hill, under shelter of which they had
pitched their tents. On the 20th they saw a bear,,
but could not catch him, tho they drove hard to
overtake him ; the ice seemed to increase at sea, the
wind continued at eat, and the night was very cold.
The 25th they pursued another bear, which came
close to their tents, but he outstripped their utmost
speed. It now continued to snow daily, with some
intermissions of fun and fair weather, but the cold
increased gradually, and on the rid was so severe
as to split several vessels that held liquids ;
there was not the lead dgn of water, and the bay
and sea were frozen as far as it was possible for the
eye to dr etch.


The







WHO WINTERED IN GREENLAND. 17

The 2d of September they killed a bear, six or
seven of these animals having come down towards
the tents in a body ; however, the rest fled when they
saw their companion fall, and saved themselves
upon the ice, where they could not be followed;
and these voracious creatures began to grow so numerous
after night-fall, in general about the tents,
that the sailors did not think it safe to Air out;
and were forced to kindle good fires in their buttery
cellar to preserve their beer and other liquors
from being spoiled by the frost. On the 3d, the
weather being tollerable, they fired at a bear
upon the ice, and killed him, then they haled
the body homeward with a good Among rope.
The snows were so heavy, and the wind so tempestuous
on the 5 th, that they could not Air abroad :
by this time the sea-gulls were all retired, their
water was consumed, and in its place they were obliged
to use melted snow.

The days by the 19th began to grow so short,
that they had not sufficient light to write or read
in their tents, a circumstance which affected them
with melancholy: dii the 23d they shot a bear
which escaped to the ice, though it appeared by
the track of his blood that he was terribly wounded
; but it seems so very Among is this animal, that
he will run a great while after being shot quite
thro the body.

On the 26th, the wind being to the southward,
and the day tolerably mild, the ice drove out of
the bay sass into the ocean: for two or three days
laA paA, they had seen some sea-gulls, which as
night approached retired to the hills. The latter
end of this month and the beginning of December,
it was so very mild, that they began to hope
the winter now would not be much more severe
than what it generally was in Holland. However,
the fro A returned with a north-earl wind on the

8th,



18 JOURNAL OF SEVEN SAILORS

8 th, and the ice began again to increase everywhere.


For some time pad, they had in vain endeavoured
to catch bear, they being so shy that it
was not possible to reach them, and tho many
of them had been wounded, they got oft on the
ice; however, on the 12th, one of the men had
the good fortune to shoot one thro the head,
which expired upon the spot; and a leg of it
being roasted, proved a most delicious meal to
people, who had for a confiderable time fed on
nothing but fait meat; besides, it chanced to be
young. The 17th, the ice seemed to be forced
back into the bay by a high southerly wind,
which brought down many sea-gulls from the
hills, which made the same noise they do in Holland
in May. The diff it froze very hard, and
the blow lying deep on the ground, they were
forced to wade thro it in boots: the day was fill
four hours long, and mod part of the month of
December, the weather continued so bad, that *
they were shut up whole days in their tents, .without
daring to dir out.

They began the new year as merrily as their
circumstances would permit, and went regularly
to prayers ; the cold was very bitter, and the
ice in the bay appeared like white lifted hills,
from the tops of their tents, so large were the
concretions. Just by them on the 13th they saw
a bear, and one man had the pleasure of bringing
him down With the first discharge of a fusee ; he
was drawn into their scent, out of which they did
not care to venture, with ropes, and was soon flea’d
and dressed for table, being a very welcome
morsel.

During all the month of January, the snows
were heavy, and the frosts severe, with various
gulls of bad weather, which laded still February;

on








WHO WINTERED IN GREENLAND. 19

on the 16th of which month, they had sight of
two wild fowl something like geese, and also a
falcon, but none of them came within reach of
their guns : and by this time the bears, as if intrusted,
from the treatment of their companions
what they were to expert, became so shy, that
they fled at the most distant sight of a man. The
weather underwent various changes this month,
sometimes thawing with the wind at south, then
freezing hard with the wind at north-east.

On the first of March the fun stone a little upon
their tents, and it rained in the evening; the weather
that ensued was cold and stormy till the 1 with,
when it was calm and pleasant, the fun yielding
some heat; and this lasted for a few days, with the
wind at south. On the 15th they shot a bear, and
hung his skin to dry, sprinkling so much of his
flesh as they could not immediately devour with
fait : fresh meat of any sort was very serviceable at
prefer t, most of them being infested with the
scurvy to a prodigious degree; and this disorder made
some foxes that were caught in traps very welcome.
All this month the weather was tolerably good, the
days being very fine ; but the increase of the scurvy,
and their want of fresh food, made them very
heartless and dispirited. O11 the 28th, and 29th,
they saw whales of prodigious sizes in the bay,
and these in such large quantities, that had they
had strength to hunt them, and been furnished
with proper tools, they might have made confiderable
advantage of them. But in their present
circumstances nothing was to be done; besides,
there was plenty of other fishes, and on the 31ft
they saw a she bear with three cubs, at which they
fired ineffectually: there were also four or five whales
in the bay, which were near being stranded with
the ebb ; but had this been the case, it would have

been




20 JOURNAL OF SEVEN SAILORS

been of little comfort to them, for they now were
too weak to have assailed them.

On the 3d of April, they were so disabled by
the scurvy, that only two of them could stand on
their feet, and these killed the last two pullets that
were left, which they gave them, hoping that with
this little refreshment they might recruit a little.
Great part of this month they saw plenty of whales
every day, but the weather coming about again
colder, with the wind at north-raff, they found it
difficult to move out of their tents, for the disorder
gained upon them hourly. And on the 16th,
he, whom they called their clerk, and who wrote
the journal to this period, died. On the 23d,it rained
a little with a Southerly wind, and their misery began
to be extremely deplorable, for they were so
reduced as to be unable to yield either themselves
or their companions assistance, there being only
one among them that could move about, and even
he could go but very badly. On the 23d, their
commander died, and they killed their dog on the
27th, which was but a poor bit; the night was
fair and cloudy, and there was a thaw abroad ;
the 28th the ice was carried out to sea, and the
bay left quite clear. The 29th, the day was
cloudy and the wind was pretty high from the
north, and at night it blew hard from the northeast.
The diff was a clear fun-shiny day.

At this place ends the journal, which was found
by leone Zealand Ships which came with the Greenland
fleet hither the same year ; and it is very probable,
the poor man who wrote attended it till,
being no longer able to hold his pen, and he
Scrawled miserably, he retired to his cabbin, where
he resigned his soul into the hands of his Creator.

Soon as the fleet came in sight of the island of
St. Maurice, which was the 4th of June, 1634,
the sailors strove who should get sir to shore to

visit








WHO WINTERED IN GREENLAND. 21

visit their companions, of whose welfare they had
however but little hopes, not seeing them on the
strand.

On entering the tents, they found each of the
poor wretches lying dead in their respective lockers,
it being not improbable that they, who survived
the clerk, died in the beginning of May; near
one of them Rood some bread and cheese, on
which perhaps he had fed a little before his
death ; within reach of another lay a box of ointment,
with which it was supposed he rubbed his
teeth and gums, his hand being lifted towards his
mouth ; and not far off lay a prayer book.

A little reflection will shew that the circumvent
fees of these people must have been truly deplorable,
when unable to help each other; and as
they probably languished till their natural heat was
extinguished by the cold, those who survived to
the laR muR have been the moR unhappy. The
principal source of their destruction was the scurvy,
occasioned by their having no victuals to feed on,
but such as were fait; by this their limbs became
cramped, and being thus made incapable of takeing
such exercise as was proper to keep the blood
in motion, they soon grew Riff, and were conquered
by the cold ; which was not so excessive but
that they might have weathered it, had they been
able to have kept themselves in action, and repelled
the disorder, under the attacks of.which
they perished.

The commodore ordered them to be put into
coffins, and covered with snow, till the breaking
of the ground became more easy from the thaw,
landgrave were dug for them as soon as the earth
became indifferently soft; in which they were interred,
under a general discharge of the cannon of
the fleet, on the 24th of June, being St. Johns
day.


A short



I



A short Journal kept by seven Sailors,
who were left to winter at Spitz-bergen,
anno 1634, and died therein
the Year 1635.

I 'N the year 1633, ^ ie kme Beet that set those
unfortunate men, whom we have just now
treated of, ashore on the island of St. Maurice,
landed seven others on the very same account at
Spitsbergen, who survived, and were brought
back in 1634 ; their place being supplied by seven
others, who voluntarily chose also to winter there;
they were Andrew Johnson of Middleburgh, Cornelius
Thyffe of Rotterdam, Jerom Carcoen of
Depths haven, Tibbe Jellies of Friesland, Nicholas
Florifon of Room, Adrian johnson of Deft, and
Fettle Otters of Friesland. They were provided
with herbs, physical preparations, meat, drink
and all necessaries, and kept a journal of their observations
as long as they were able ; of this we
fall here give as snort and expressive an abJflradl as
possible.

September the nth, 1634, the fleet having
hoisted sail for Holland, our adventurers saw plenty
of whales in the sea all about, at which they discharged
some fire-arms without doing them any
damage; they also wandered about in search of
foxes, bears, or even vegetables, but had no
success.

The fun left them either the 20th, or 21ft of
Q&ober.

The 24th of November, they were alarmed
with the appearance of the scurvy, which 'made

them








JOURNAL OF SEVEN SAILORS, &c. 23

them more earned, tho to no purpose, in looking
out for herbs, bears or foxes.

The 2d of December they fixed some fox traps,
and Nicholas Florifon took a dose of physic again
the scurvy, as did Jerom Carcoen on the nth;
and the same day they agreed to eat separately to
prevent a communication of the infection, as some
were freer than others from that terrible disorder.

The 23d, the cook spied a bear close by one of
their tents ; but he made off before they could get
at their guns.

The 24th, three of them being together discovered
another bear, who rose upon his hind legs
as they advanced towards him ; but being soon
disabled with a musket-shot, he fell, bleeding
very sass, and roaring dreadfully ; he then seized
one of the halberds between his teeth, which he
bit very strongly; but after having floundered a
good while, he on a sudden collected all his
strength, sprang up, and fled so swiftly, that he
soon outstripped them, tho they pursued him
with hawthorns and candles, till they were quite
w earl. The loss of him was very vexatious,
as they were in great want of fresh meat to refresh
them a little ; the scurvy growing every day
stronger, they being nourished only by their fait
provisions, whereby they were laid under the mod
excruciating tortures.

January the 24th, Adrian Johnson died in great
misery, as did Cornelius Thyfle, a sensible man
and the mod fldlful bailor among them; and
Fettle Otters departed this life in two or three
days after. By this time, the other four, tho
scarcely able to stand on their legs, contrived to
make coffins for their three companions, into which
they put their bodies.

The 28th, they saw a fox, but could not catch
him.





The





24 JOURNAL OF SEVEN SAILORS

The 7th of February, they were lucky enough
to find one in a trap, which tho some small refreshment,
yet proved but of little benefit, their
distemper having reached to too great an height.

They now saw bears enough every day, sometimes
ten in a drove ; but they were so weak, they
could not handle their guns; and if they had
killed any of them, they could hardly have brought
them home, much less could they have pursued those
which they wounded, for they were scarcely able
to put their feet to the ground ;« their gums were
swollen, and their teeth so bad, that they could
no longer bite their biscuit, and they were afflicted
with the most cruel griping pains in the guts and
loins ; to which the cold added considerably.
Some had moreover the bloody flux, and others
spit blood ; in short Jerom Carcoen was the only
person among them able to move, and he made a
shift to bring in fuel for firing.

The 23d, they were not able to stir out of their
cabins, but lay calling upon God for assistance, in
the moil racking misery.

The 24th they had a glimpse of the fun, a sight
which had been unknown to them since October.
The 26th of this month was probably the last day
on which they were able to write ; for their journal
ended with observing, that then, four of them
were still alive lying flat on the ground, having
stomachs to eat, if any one among them could have
served the others with food, but all were disabled thro J
infirmity and pain : in which dismal circumstances,
as they had no hopes, but in futurity, being just
starved with cold and hunger, they recommended
themselves devoutly to their Creator; waiting for
the hour of their dismission from this life with impatience,
and entreating the God of heaven to
hasten it.


The


JOURNAL OF SEVEN SAILORS, &c. a 5

The fleet which came hither from Holland in
1635, found their tents close shut to prevent the entry
of bears and foxes: a baker, who was one of
the first that landed, broke open the tent of Middle-burgh,
and found part of a dead dog, laid out as
it were to dry; and going a little farther trod
upon the carcase of the second, for they had two ;
then advancing to the inner room, he Humbled
on the dead bodies that were stretched on
the floor, upon some old sails; two of them
were quite drawn up together, the knees amor
meeting the chin; Nicholas Florifon and another
lay dead in their separate lockers : they were all
put into coffins, and as soon as the ground could
be opened, they were interred in deep graves;
and large Rones fixed over them, to hinder their
being dug up by the bears, and other ravenous
beads. We dont find that any others attempted
to winter at Spitsbergen afterwards.


Vo it, XV,


C


A short












A short Account of a Shipwreck near
Spitsbergen, in the Year 1646.


J John Cornelius of Maiden being ordered
upon the whale fishery in the year 1646, left
the Texel on the 6th of May, and on the
3d of June arrived in the neighbourhood of Spitz-bergen
; but was prevented from anchoring in the
bay, by the shoals of ice ; wherefore he kept out to
sea ; and chancing to discern two whales in the
offing, he sent his sloop well manned in pursuit of
them.

While they were rowing up and down, watchful
of an opportunity to make a successful attack
upon one of these enormous creatures, they discovered
a large ice shoal floating at a distance, with
something white thereupon, which they supposed
to be bears. But Ellert Johnson the harpooner
instilling that it was something elfe, and that it
was in motion, persuaded them to row up to it;
to which proposal, after some altercation, they assented
; and perceived it, on a nearer view, to bea
sort of signal of distress waved by a man.

This discovery induced them to approach it as sad:
as they could, and there to their great surprize they
found four living men and one dead ; by their language
they knew them to he English; they took
them into the sloop, and conveyed them on board
their flip in the bay.

They were at this time reduced to the lad extremity
by hunger and cold, having had nothing
to feed upon for some time before they saw the
fido, but a leather belt, which they had divided
iliare and share alike, and eaten up. The fnrgeoix

took



A SHIPWRECK.


*7





took all the care he could to recover them, but
three of them died in spite of all his endeavours,
in five or six days after their being brought onboard
; the fourth only survived, who was brought
to Delft upon the Meuse in September 1646*
Whence he got a passage home to England.

The account he gave was, that their vessel being
wrecked on that ice shoal, from which he was
taken, the crew, consisting of forty-two men, saved
themselves upon it, with some tools, victuals, and
their (loop; that they cut a deep hole like a
cave into the ice, blocking it round the mouth
with such pieces as they dug out, to shelter them
from the violence of the winds and waves, which
intention it in some measure fulfilled ; and in this
hole they had burrowed fourteen days.

In a few days the commander thinking it impossible
that they should all survive long upon this
shoal, resolved with seventeen of his men to make
the land in the sloop, and send her off for the rest,
with an account of his success ; but, as they never
heard more of them, and it blew a hard form
soon after, there was reason to think they never
reached the shore.

Twenty-four of them remaining still upon the
ice, and provisions growing daily so very scanty,
that they were reduced to a famishing condition,
and scarcely hoped relief from any thing but death,
they resolved to separate, and quarter upon different
shoals, in hope that by some piece of good
fortune they might be driven to land : but what
became of them was never known, whether they
were taken up by any other ships, or whether they
reached the shore ; indeed it is mod: likely that they
were swallowed by the remorseless ocean, for John
Cornelius ordered his. sloop upon a cruize in search
of the survives, but without any success.

C 2


A









A Description of the Country and
Inhabitants of Iceland.


E Fore we quit the northern teas, we shall
relate some little anecdotes from Antrim
^ Jonas, and other authors, who have made
Iceland their theme, as it lies opposite to
Greenland to the north ; to the raff it has the
northern ocean; on the north it is bounded
by the frozen sea, and on the south it is washed
by the Scotifli ocean.

This island is in the latitude of sixty-five degrees,
or thereabouts, and obtained its name from the ice
with which it is covered ; it is about twice as large
as the island scilly ; and its longed day, which is
about the dimmer solstice, is from two in the morning
till ten at night, the fun in all that time, being
two months, never falling quite below the horizon,
nor riling above it during the winter solstice, when
the fortes day is from ten o'clock in the morning
till two in the afternoon, our common hour of fun-set
at that time of year.

Iceland is at present a rude barren country, yielding
neither grain nor wood ; yet it is said to have
been formerly well flocked with wheat; and it
appears from the enormous roots of trees which
are often dug up here, and are as black as ebony,
that what is reported of its having heretofore produced
timber proper for shipping, is not an untruth
: but now, did not the drift wood afford them,
materials sufficient for building and fuel, and neighbouring
nations supply them with grain, the people
of Iceland might perish of hunger and cold.

This country is well watered ; a few of its springs,
which are in general very clear 3 yield moil refreshing




A Descriptions. 20

■w

ing draughts, as nourishing, say some people, as
beer ; but the majority of them are very unwholesome:
it has good hot baths, and variety of ponds
and lakes, brooks and navigable rivers ; the naming
of which would be very tedious; and all of them
contain plenty of good fill.

On the western part of this island, we are told
by Blefkenius, is a lake so extremely cold, that it
petrifies everything that is put into it; and that part
of a slick steeped in it, which is under the water,
becomes in a short time iron, while the rest retains
its former nature. There is also, says the
same author, another lake near the middle of this
bland, from whence arise fumes of a nature so malignant,
as to kill the birds that fly over it. There
are springs here so hot as to scald a mans skin
where the water touches ; and this left to cool,
leaves a strong tincture of sulphur behind it : upon
its surface swims a sort of animated red substance,
which, when approached, plunges under water,
and rises again when left alone : there is also a spring
which has the taste of wheat, and is a good remedy
against the venereal distemper, which is common
here.

Brimstone is the only mineral substance found in
Iceland, and it is dug up almost every where ; efpe-
daily on the earl of the island, near Hecla, a volcano
that often elects flames and fiery matter,
with allies and calcined, fines, like Vesuvius or
AEtna: there have been many instances of people
lost going up this mountain, by the ground
giving way, and falling in with them : however,
when the wind is westerly, it seems to be less agitated
than at other times, and may be approached
with more safety: it is said that a stone flung into
one of its cavities, rebounds back with prodigious
velocity.


C 3 •


The






30 A DESCRIPTION

The inhabitants believe this mountain to be the
receptacle of damned souls, who here find their
punishment by fire ; and they will seriously affirm,
that they see troops of devils driving into its mouth
the spirits of the lately departed, and hurrying
back for more; but they are generally, say these
people, moil busy at the time of a bloody battle.
The dashing of the waves, and ice shoals upon the
shore, and against the cavities of rocks, produces
a moil hideous and ungrateful noise, which the
Icelanders believe to be the groans and lamentations
of the damned souls, tortured among the ice with
excessive cold ; their punishment confiding in extremes
of heat and childless.

On the 29th of November, 1563, the sea in the
neighbourhood of Hecla appeared all in a bright
flame, which the more judicious supposed to be
caused by a fiery eruption from the mountain ; at
the same time there was an earthquake felt, and a
mod dreadful noise heard all over the island ; and
the ensuing day the sea, in that place where it had
seemed on fire, was found to have retired, at lead
two leagues, from its antient boundaries.

The inhabitants of Iceland are wrong, courageous,
and ready witted : the poured sort are fl aves
to the rich ; and their wealth confide in herds of
cattle, numbers of fishing vessels, and many vassals.
They are generally tall and well made; and if
the women were ornamented, they would be found
very beautiful. The men and women are not distinguished
by their garments, dressing all alike.
Their manner of living is very coarse ; their food
is a sort of dock-fish pounded with a done, or
elfe very bad butter and cheese ; their drink bering
either water, milk, or whey ; and on this hard
fare many of them survive, without the help of a
physician, to a hundred and fifty years of age.






OF Iceland I>. 3 i

They were said to be attended by familiar spirits,
by whose advice they either went a hunting or
filling; and these demons, we are told by Cornelius,
they distinguish by the name of Dollar, which
seems to be derived from the Danish word Trot,
signifying a devil. Blackening says, they make a
good trade of selling winds, which is done by tying
a certain number of knots on a rope, or an
handkerchief; over which they pronounce some
arrange words by way of charm ; and the buyer is
directed to untie each knot, when he comes to a
particular place lying in his course.

Angrim Jonas, who was coadjutor to the bishop
of Hole, a native of Iceland, and a man of good
sense, ridicules this story, and says the Icelanders,
being skilled in the variations of the weather, can
by the disposition of the air foresee into what point
the wind is about to shift, perhaps some few hours
before-hand ; and that they are cautious in their
bargaining, taking care not to enter into treaty with
a stranger, until they have observed the wind near
changing as he would have it. The knots are delivered,
and a sort of charm pronounced to give
an air of mystery to the contract. And if, says
Jonas, they should once chance to prove right, the
credulous purchaser blazons every where their
knowledge.

When the young girls grow to a proper age,
they are by their parents prostituted to such ft rangers
as happen to come among them, for any
trifling thing, even for a biscuit, which by them,
as having no corn of their own, is accounted a great
curiosity, and laid up to be produced, steeped in
milk, either at some great festival, or the entertainment
of their superiors. If a child should bethe
consequence of such a connexion, the girl is always
after held in very great esteem, and the child

C~ 4



A DESCRIPTION

received, by whoever marries her, as a valuable
part of her dowery.

If by any exchange they chance to obtain wine,
beer, or strong liquors, they never hoard them, but
invite all their friends to partake, who are sure
not to Rir while one drop of liquor is left. During
the entertainment they enliven one another with
rude artless songs, setting forth the achievements
of their ancestors, and never rise from table to
make water, which would be accounted ill manners,
but hint their want to one of the young women
in waiting; for the daughters of the house
always attend these carousals, and hand the necessary
utensil, which they convey from one to
another; and it is not thought genteel to refuse it.

Jonas, however, is angry at this imputation
thrown upon the modesty of his countrywomen ;
neither will he allow that they wash. their teeth
with urine; and perhaps with some suffice : these
customs might have been formerly tolerated amongst
them , but it would be hard to suppose that they
remained hill as unpolished as ever.

The cattle which happen to die by chance in
the field, or to be smothered in the snow, are held
in great eheem, nay, deemed sacred ; and it is certain
they will preserve untainted many months in
the from : for this reason, they use no fait to their
fish or flesh, nor have they need of it.

They are great players at chess; in so much
that every peasant in the country knows the game,
and has men formed of fish bones, with which he
plays during the long nights, with this difference,
that our fools are their bishops ; because, say they,
the clergy should be near the king. Their rooks
are formed with swords by their sides, and bloated
cheeks, as if adapted to blow the horn, which
they hold in each hand ; they are called centurions,
or captains; and it is certain, that in many

part$


OF Iceland D. 33*

parts of the northern world, trumpeters were considered
as officers, and not held in such slight estimation
as among us.

Chess is a game of very antient slanting in the
north ; for the Norwegian chronicle mentions, that
Herald, sirnamed the Hairy, king of Norway, and
who reigned about the year 8 70, received from his
forefather Rosen the giant, among many other
presents, a most beautiful chefs-table : and few persons
can be more curious than the people of fashion
in Denmark, Norway, and. Iceland, are in the
workmanship of their tables and men ; for example,
Eleanor, natural daughter of Christian, king
of Denmark, who married count Ulefield, great
marshals that kingdom, and sir minister of state,
used tables inlaid with white and yellow amber;
the men were of gold, curiously wrought, and inlaid
with the same materials that composed the.
tables. The kings and queens were dressed in
their regalia, and mounted on thrones ; the bishops
were distinguished by the episcopal habit; the
knights were mounted and properly accoutered ;
rooks were represented by elephants with towers
on their backs; and the men were musketeers
with their guns presented, as if only waiting the
word to fire.

The history of the various revolutions in Iceland
has been well preserved ; and there are particular
accounts Hill extant of the reigns of the several
kings, each one by itself, written in verse ; for the
antient kings and heroes of the north used to carry
every where with them certain bards to record
their exploits in verse, and their compositions were
generally learned by the soldiery, who, ambitious of
elevating the same of their leaders, sung them whereever
they went. The poets of this country are indisputably
born such ; for if they have not the talent
of composing naturally, it has been found that no

C 5 rules'



34 A DESCRIPTION

rules whatever can implant it; those who have
the power of composition scarcely speak anything
in prose; and there is a certain season,
the time of the new moon I think, when they
are agitated with a sort of frenzy that adds an horrid
paleness to their visage, and their hollow
sunken eyes render them hill more frightful ; nor
is their appearance, at this time, unlike what Virgil
describes of the Cumean Sybil.

- Cui tala fanti

Ante fores, subito non vultus, non color unus.
Non comte manner comas; fed pectus anselm,
Et rabies fera corda tient: marque videre,

Nec mortal fonans; adflata eh nomine quando
Jam propose dei.

On this account they are held in much eheem by
the neighbouring nations, which believe there is a
sort of magic power in their verse that can not
only influence the infernal demons, but also assets
the planets.

The plan of the mythology adopted by these
bards is called Edge ; and therein it is asserted,
among many other range matters, that the fire
principle of things was a giant called Simmer, who
was cut in pieces by dwarfs that sprung out of
chaos, which out of his skull scooped the heavens
; of his right eye they formed the fun; of his
left eye, the moon ; his shoulders were erected
into mountains; of his bones were made rocks;
his bladder was turned into-the sea, and the rivers
sprung from his urine, &c. This mythology
is written in old Iceland verse, and reckoned very
antient.

The antient inhabitants of Iceland were pagans :
we find Thor and Odin in the list of their deities;
the former being equal to the Jupiter, the latter

toto



the Mercury of the old Romans; and from
these two, as with us, they have Odin’s day and
Thorns day in their week. On their altars, which,
were plated with iron, blazed a fire, and they
were careful never to extinguish it: near it hood
a tin vessel, containing the blood of that victim
which was moll newly slain, wherewith the spectators
were generally sprinkled ; and an oath taken,
by laying hold of a silver ring of about twenty
ounces weight, smeared with the blood of the
sacrifice, was sacred and inviolable.

We are told by the Iceland chronicles, that
their priests used to sacrifice men and women to
their gods, and the victims were precipitated from
the top of a neighbouring rock, or into a deep pit,
near the two chief temples; one of which was at
Hole, on the north, and the other on the south
side of the island at Shalholt: they both are at:
present Christian bishopricks, and the latter is the
residence of the Danish governor. Lutheranism.
is the established religion of the country : and An-grim
Jonas says, that Christianity made its appearance
here about eight hundred years ago y
tho* it was not spread over the island till long
after that period.

Iceland was formerly divided into four provinces ;
the moil northern of which, being the moil confiderable,
was subdivided into four bailliages ; each
of which had its subdivision into eight or ten di
strides. The other three provinces were only portioned
out in three parts each. There was an assembly
or court of judicature of the bailliages of
each province, annually assembled at the principal
place ; and all who had a right to preside at these.
assemblies, were summoned by small wooden crosses,
distributed by the governor: besides, the*
prudent of the whole island, at other times,,
summoned the extraordinary council of the chiefs

C 6 of


36 A DESCRIPTION

of the provinces, by sending to them wooden
hatchets.

The administration of judice, and the exercise of
devotion, were alternately performed in the temples;
of which each bailliage had three : the precedents
of these were called Godorp, or Divine. The
principal care of these magistrates was to provide
for the poor; which, from the barrenness of the
country, were reduced to great extremity : it was
also their business to prevent them from wandering
out of their respective didridfs, and to infliCt
punishments on such as drove to pass them.

If a beggar happened to be ordinate, or offered
to oppose the civil power at any rate, the magistrate
was at liberty either to kill him, or take
away his testicles, to prevent his spreading poverty
: no poor man was permitted to marry a poor
woman; and if a man had only a jut sufficiency
to maintain himself, he was not allowed to wed a
girl with a less portion.

These laws were in force, till the king of Norway,
invited by the feuds that arose among those who managed
the administration, made a conquer of Iceland
in 1263, and entirely changed the form of
government, besides the imposition of an annual
tribute; and it has ever once dared the fortune of
Its conqueror, and with him submitted to Denmark
; whence governors or viceroys are now sent
to coiled! the annual tribute, and may or may not
reside upon the spot, at their option.

The Icelanders were formerly counted good
gladiators, and bold pirates ; single combat was
publickly allowed among them ; hand their very law
business was often thus decided, the vanquished
party losing his caufe,and he who refused to fight undergoing
the same fate. It was not an uncommon
thing for two persons to take their whole fortunes
one again another, and for him who conquered



OF ICELAND. 3 7

queried to possess both ; however, his heirs were .
at liberty to present the victor with a bull, which
if he killed with one blow, he was confirmed in
his acquisitions; but if he miscarried, he lost his
spoil.

The country is mountainous, and in several places
produces excellent pasturage, the grass being of
so fine a scent that people dry it to lay among their
linen, and is so very rich that they are obliged to
remove their cattle from it many times, otherwise
they would eat till they burst : their beef is but
indifferent, and their mutton is rank; but these
imperfections are purged offby the air, in which they
dry their meat to preserve it, an end answered
thereby much better than by fait. Their horses are
not bad ; and when hay is scarce, as well as grain,
thro the severity of the season and delay of foreign
ships, they teach their cattle to feed like themselves
upon dry fish.

Their buildings are mean and low, to secure
them from the rough tempests with which this
place abounds ; they are partly composed of driftwood,
and partly of whale and other bone; and
their firing is a turf called cefpes bituminous,
from its being impregnated with bitumen. They
have white partridge, and many sorts of waterfowls
; but to the smaller species of birds they are
grangers: here are also crows and falcons, some
of them white. There is likewise a sort of shock dog
bred here without ears or tail ; they are in great
esteem, but fit for nothing but to gratify whim ;

and white foxes and bears seem to be natural to
the place; but those of other colours, as red and
black, with flags, wolves, and unicorns,are brought
hither upon the ice, as well as large trees. We
have before this expatiated on the nature and value
of the unicorn horn ; therefore we shall-not
impose upon the readers patience with repetitions

cons


S A DESCRIPTION

concerning it. We shall only observe, that it is.
part of the commodities in which they pay their
annual tax to Denmark.

It is remarkable of the Icelanders, that they are
so bigotted to their country, as to imagine it the
mod; pleasant in the world ; and some of them, tho
proficient in Rude, and consequently expected to
be something wiser, have preferred a mean subsistence
here to a comfortable living in Denmark.
As their houses are dispersed, and they have neither
towns nor villages, the two already mentioned
excepted, it cannot be expected that they should
have highways; so that those who are obliged or
chuse to go from one province to another, are guided
by a compass: where there are deep holes,
which might be dangerous from being covered
over with snow, they generally set up particular
marks ; and these are the only directions travellers
meet with in this country.

There was a printing-press some time ago at
Hole, where the Old Testament was call off in
the Iceland tongue, which the celebrated Worms
allures us is the purest Runic now to be found in
the world ; but the want of paper, which is a
scarce and deer article here, delayed the New Testament
a long time. In the same place there was
a college for the education of youth, in which*
they were taught as far as rhetoric, and then sent
to Copenhagen to finish their Rubies. This country
has produced many men of learning ; and
some of the bishops of Hole will, upon, examining
the liR, appear to have been very serviceable to
the republic of letters.

Iceland, according to Angrim Jonas, was Rr
discovered by one Neddocus a pirate, who was
forced ashore here by a tempeR ; and finding it
very barren, he soon quitted it, but gave it Rr

the


OF ICELAND, 39

\

the name of Iceland or Scotland, from the heaps
of snow wherewith he saw it covered.

From his speaking of it, Garters, a Swedish
mariner, sought it out, and ventured ashore j at hia
departure giving it the name of Garderfholm, oc
Gardens Isle. This was in the year 864.

The third person, who chose to visit this country
was a noted Norwegian pirate, called Flacco,who
sailing from Highland, one of the Orkney islands,
took, with him three ravens, the use of the compass
being not at that time discovered ; and when
he got into the main sea, he let one of them loose,
which bent its course back again to Highland ;
however, he kept on his way, and let loose his
second raven, but that soon returned to the flip,
whence he inferred hie had not found any land;
in some short time after he sent out his third raven;
and finding her keep on the wing, made all
the sail he could after her, by which means he
was piloted to Iceland. He landed on the eastern
part of it, not far from where Garters had gone
ashore : here he spent the winter ; and finding
himself surrounded by ice on every side, he gave
it the name of Iceland ; by which appellation it
has ever since been distinguished : he afterwards
wintered on the south part of the island ; but
finding it as uncomfortable as the rest, he returned
to Norway, where he was called Refnafloke, or
Flocco, the Raven, because he had made use of
that bird, in the manner we have already described,
for discovering this land.

But the Iceland chronicle mentions that the
country was desart and uncultivated in the year
870, when one Ingulph a Norwegian baron, with
his brother-in-law Horleifus, having killed two of
the greatest men in the whole country, in a duel,
were banished for the sass, and fled to Iceland *.

here





40 A DESCRIPTION

here Ingulph threw out his gates to facilitate hi?
landing, it being the custom of exiles in that part
of the world to bring with them the gates of their
houses; but he being driven from them by a Ridden
gust of wind, landed in another part of the
island; and, three years after, happening to find
his gates driven to land, he fettled a colony upon
the same spot, being in the year 874, whence the
Iceland chronicle dates the first peopling their
island.

Notwithstanding this account, from pieces of
bells, crosses, and books found here, it was evident
that some English and Irish had known the
country before; and it is certain that the Irish
used commonly to come ashore here before the
landing of Ingulph, and that they were called by
the people Papa; for that there were some people,
natives of this-place, long before, is beyond
doubt; and when the Iceland chronicle mentions
the place as a wilderness at the coming hither of
Ingulph, it implies no more, than that its inhabitants
were but few before that time, and then increased
and united into colonies: and Angrim Jonas
mentions, that Ingulph was a Christian ; so
that it is indisputable that Christianity was propagated
here in the ninth century; and the more so,
as it is well known all the northern nations were
at that time converted. Besides, there is an old
Danish chronicle of Greenland, in verse, that says
Greenland was first discovered in 770, and another
in prose, that expressly affirms the discoverer
passed from Norway thro Iceland : this chronicle
is supported by the authority of the great northern
apostle Aufgarius archbishop of Hamburgh, who
was collated to that see in 834, by Lewis the
Mild, emperor of the west ; and his patent, which
is still to be see 11 in Pontanus’s Danish history, sets
forth, “ that the gates of the gospel are set open,

“ and


OF ICELAND. 41

and thatjefus Ohrid has been at length revealed
“ both in Iceland and Greenland.” Wherefore
the good emperor returns thanks to God. Now
as this bears date in 834, and Ingulph did not
settle in Iceland till forty years after ; it is evident
he was neither the find person who preached Christianity
here, nor yet was he the £rd who peopled
the idand : for to me it appears very plain, that
Iceland was known to the antients ; and that Thule,
mentioned by Strabo, is the same country; and
Casaubon, in his commentaries upon that great
geographer, is of the same opinion. We all know
that Thule was always accounted the lad of the
Britannic hands, at the extremity of the Deucaledo-
nan, or Scotch sea, which is universally allowed
to be the situation of Iceland.




The dangerous VOYAGE of Captain
Thomas James, employed to
discover the North west Passage.


CHAP. I.

A general account of this undertaking ; captain James
Jets sail upon it with only one flip : they arrive on
the coast of Greenland ; are in great danger from
the ice ; they lose their boat off Cape Desolation
and recover her with difficulty : the captain goes
shore in the harbour of (Jed's Providence y and afterwards
at Price s Cove .

S Some merchants of Bristol, zealous in their
commercial pursuits, as well as for the general
advantage of their country, formed themselves
into a company about the year 1630, for encouraging
a discovery of a north-weft passage to
the South Sea, and so to Japan. His majesty, king
James I. being apprized of their good intentions
by Sir Thomas Rowe, of whose embassy to Hindostan
we have before treated, was graciously pleased
to signify his approbation thereof, and to confirm
the choice made of captain Thomas James to go
upon this expedition. He was a man of integrity,
as well as an old experienced sailor, and consequently
none better adapted to an undertaking so
useful, and yet so dangerous.

May the 3d, 1631, he fell down the channel of
Bristol, in a flip of seventy tons burthen, and

twenty-voyage


OF CAPTAIN JAMES, &c. 43

twenty-two men. On the 5th the wind coming
about contrary, he'made Milford haven, where he
call anchor, and continued till the 17th, when taking
the advantage of a fair gale, he again set sail,
fleering as close as possible to the well north-well.
June the 4 th they had sight of the coast of Greenland,
in foggy weather, and flood in, to discover
the trending of it.

On the 5th, they found themselves amidst several
large pieces of ice, to keep clear of which, as
the day was very misty, and the prospect consequently
confined, required great dexterity ; however,
they made fall to one piece for security, and
repelled the repeated attacks of the others with
poles, which at length broke : the succeeding day
the danger seemed to increase, the ice coming upon
them on every side, so thick, that it threatened
to crush them to pieces, as it had shattered their
shallop, the broken parts of which however they recovered
by the means of their boat, and brought on-deck,
intending to rebuild her with the first opportunity
: it was not without very great difficulty they
forced their way thro these perilous impediments*
by making all the sail possible, and to their great
surprise they brought the flip off without the leash
damage. On the 9th, having made an observation,
they found themselves in fifty-nine' degrees of north
latitude, when they examined very closely, to see
if what some people had written, concerning a current
setting to the north-earl, were true ; but they
could perceive no signs of any such. The sea was.
unfathomable, yielding no sort of fish, not even the
whale, and the winds were very variable, the mills,
wetting as bad as rain.

On the 10th, the sea being very rough, and
some pieces of ice higher than the main top-mail
head swimming in fight, their boat broke from the
hern, and was very hardly recovered, two men being



44 THE VOYAGE OF

ing thereby desperately bruised ; in the mean time
they continued to put their shallop together again
upon deck. About eight in the evening they
found, by the trending of the land north and by
earl, that they were off* Cape Desolation : the fur-face
of the water round them being black, a phase
which they attributed to the heavy fogs, and
grampuffes appearing in great plenty.

The night of the 17th was dark, foggy, and
so cold that the sails and rigging were frozen;
at the same time, by the breaking and noise of the
waves, they judged themselves nigh the (bore; but
morning shewed them that it was no more than a
piece of ice: and the Bland of Resolution, the
southey point of which they endeavoured to
double, was in light at a distance. Here they
found a quick tide, but the ebb equally strong
with the flood; the ice, as well as the fog, which
was so penetrating as to spoil all the compasses,
continuing very troublesome.

As the day cleared up, which it did but for a
very short time, they saw the Streights before them
thronged and barricaded with ice, thro* which
they strove to penetrate ; but were much intangled,
having no ground at two hundred and thirty fathoms,
bearing four leagues from shore. On the
20th, in the morning, having doubled the southern
point of the Island of Resolution, the wind
coming about to the west, drove them together
with the ice towards the land, within two leagues
of which they met with nothing but short breakers,
and large lumps of ice aground,, at the depth of
forty fathoms ; and here they were met by a strong
ebb rushing from the broken grounds of the island,
that bore away the flip before it, carrying it thro
innumerable meanders among rocks and ice; so
that, to lave themselves from being wrecked, which
they now much dreaded, they threw out a hedger


CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 4 £

and grapnels, whereby they made fall, on each
side of them, to a piece of ice that drew about ten
fathom water, which served them by way of founding,
being so disposed that either one or the other
mud have run aground before the flip, in case the
should have come so near the shore : but this not
appearing sufficient to secure the vessel, the boat
was hoisted out to search for a port of safety ; but
the ice bore upon her so heavily, that the men were
forced to quit, and haws her over it from piece to
piece; in the mean time the hedger and grapnel
were broke away from the flip, to recover which
the boat was manned anew: yet it was with
much difficulty that they caught the hedger, and
brought it back to the vessel; and it was with joy
they saw her return ; for having dropped anchor ina
shallow rocky bottom, they lost sight of, and
gave her up.

Here the vessel being in a very perilous situation,
the crew threw out hawsers on the rocks that
were near, and every man did his utmost to warp
her out into a better birth, where she lay to, and
well under shelter of a mountain of ice, till the
flood, that brought down large and continual
flakes of ice, distressed her exceedingly, tho the
men worked very hard to keep them off. At high
water they were alma in despair, being forsaken
by their buckler, or that large piece of ice which
had before sheltered them, it being now afloat ^
but it returned to its moorings, and renewed its
protection with the ebb all the following day and
night : it blew a rank storm at west, and snowed
heavily; notwithstanding which they made their
cables and hawsers sass to the rocks, tho the ice
poured in upon them from the sea, whereby the
fluke of their hedger, the arms of the grapnels
and their hawsers were broken, as well as their





4 6 THE VOYAGE OF

shallop once more almost crusted to bits, the repairing
of which required the industry of all hands
on board.

The following tide, the ice being very thick,
drove her upon a sharp rock, where she was left
by the ebb, upon such a heel to seaward, that
there was no handing in her; so that the crew
went to prayers on a piece of ice, imagining she
would never get off; but it beginning to flow unexpectedly,
they, to their great satisfaction, once
more law her afloat, and worked hard to remove
her from that neighbourhood, tho they were hill
in imminent danger. They now laboured to get
as much of the ice as they could between them
and the rocks, as the less hurtful companions ;
however, they were forced to hew one piece with
their axes, and other flxong instruments, for fear
of being run down by it. Captain James went on
Shore, which he could easily do, the ice joining so
compactly, as to form one continued footing over
the harbour from land to land ; and here he built
a beacon of stones, and advanced a cross upon it,
naming the place the Harbour of Gods Providence.
In the evening the ice appeared in the harbour
thicker than ever, and none went out with
the ebb, great part of it running a ground; but
the flip lay pretty tight.

On the 23d, captain James went ashore in the
boat, on the east side of the Land, where he
climbed up a high ground, to see if he could possibly
descry any place whither to fleer the flip, and
keep her with more safety than where she then lay;
while he was upon this search, he heard a mo ft terrible
loud noise, which arose from a very large
piece of ice splitting near the flip, into four pieces ;
but however it luckily happened at such a distance
as to do no manner of damage.


Having ,


CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES, 47

Having spied out a proper cove, he lent the boat
round to the vessel, which was soon unmoored, and
bawled up into it, where having made her sad: to
the rocks, captain James ventured on shore, and
found the land rocky and uneven, without so much
as a blade of grass, or the failed sign of vegetation.
As the ponds were frozen, fowls were not to
be expected as yet; and there was no sign of either
bears or deer ; however, they saw one or two
foxes : and, from a few fire-brands, fox-bones, and
embers, it was easy to see there had been lately
some of the savages : yet it was wonderful to think
what should have invited them thither, as the soil
was entirely barren, and the sea void of sill.

The captain called this, Prices Cove, Price being
the name of his ships master; it is in latitude
sixty one degrees, twenty-four minutes. From the
high grounds here they could see Sir Thomas But
tons Islands. They left this place on the 24th,
steering out betwixt two hills of ice that were
a-ground in forty fathom water; and tho they had
clear water within a league of the north shore of
the Island of Resolution, and that the wind blew
hard from the east, the ice poured in upon them
from the open sea, with such violence, that there
was room to fear it would grate some of the planks
from the ships side ; and thus they continued driving
among the ice, without being able, even from
the top-mail head, to see to the distance of half a
quarter of a mile, till the 26th, when the weather
cleared, and the fun shone out a little. They had
a bottom of small white sand at an hundred and
forty fathoms; but no sign of fish, tho the men
hung out lines well baited. The nights fill continued
very cold, and the rigging froze ; nor did
the ice on fresh water ponds begin yet to break.


C H A P.



4 % THE VOYAGE OF

C H A P. II.

James begins to despair of the north-weft passage :
Hudfori* $ Streights described : the crew put to half
allowance : they hopeful a freepafjage ; but are disappointed:
the boat sent on a discovery : they meet
captain Foxes Flip : they compliment each other:
their bread Spoiled by the sea: the foi drives on
the rocks , but is got off*

T HEY continued sailing about the coast till
the 5 th of July, when the weather being
pretty clear, and the view round them more free
than it had hitherto been, they saw the sea to a
vast extent of north north-weft quite filled with
ice ; from whence captain James saw it would be
vain for him to pursue his discovery of a north'
west passage that year.

Hudfon’s Streights are about an hundred and twenty
leagues long ; they begin at the Island of Resolution,
and end at Digress Island, trending away
for the most part west north-weft and east southeast,
betwixt Digress Island and Cape Charles :
they are twenty leagues broad, but in other parts
not more than fifteen. Here is a certain tide, but
no current; and the north shore is freest from ice. On
the south is a large bay, and the main land is high
on each side.

On the 16th of July, captain James convinced
that it was too late to attempt the north-weft
passage, steered west south-weft towards Mans
fields Island, which at three o’ clock in the afternoon
of the ensuing day they gained sight of, receiving
many dismal shocks from the ice in their
course: here the crew was put to half allowance
of bread; and two men complained of sickness,

but





































































































































XaxicL


Smiths Tale.

Crop Ho a

Charles Xl


Z Ovid of


Pitches X


^TfoldivU/i

^Jfcrpc


^ffat'd/ius |


onr


at‘Sound*


> eter£b


-HMM~nTOTM— iiMimil 'mil l!


/












































































































































CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 49

but soon recovered. The boat being sent ashore
to found, it was found that the water flowed from .
west southwest three foot, and that at the highest:
tide it did not rise more than two fathom. Here
were some marks of the savages all along the shore ;
for the flip flood off and on a good way down, but
there was no drift-wood, beast, nor fish ; nor anything
useful but a few fowls, one of which they
shot.

On the 18 th, in the morning, they set sail, intending
to fall in with the western land, in latitude
sixty-three or thereabouts ; and after fleering for a
short while, thro what they began to hope was an
open sea, they fell in with thick ruts cf ice, in
which they were sometimes fall: locked up, and
at other times free to go forward assisted by the
wind. In the evening of the 20th of August they
came to an anchor off a point of land trending away
to the southward,, and having near it two small
islands ; they called this the New Principality of
South Wales, drinking to the health of Charles
then Prince of Wales. At this time the weather
was calm ; but the wind rose the ensuing night,
and the (hip drove in such a manner as made them
imagine they had lost their anchor ; wherefore
they heaved in the cable, by the means of the capstan,
in doing which they found the anchor had
hitched ; and upon the chopping of the sea, the
men were thrown with such force from the capstan,
that they were all sorely bruised, and one of
them had like to have lost his head, by being entangled
in the bite of the cable : Mr. Price the
mailer narrowly avoided breaking his leg; and
the gunners foot was wrung off at the ancle, so
that he was forced to have his whole leg cut off
at the knee, to prevent a mortification. In the
mean time she drove into shoal water, but the
anchor taking place secured the flip. On the
Vol. IV. D 22d




5-o THEVOYAGEOF

22d they weighed anchor again, and on the 27th ,
In the morning, were in five fathom water, and sent
the boat ashore for discovery, with written orders
for her guidance, and a ifriCI charge for the men
to return in the evening, an order which they did
not obey : her delay gave captain James great uneasiness,
which was considerably increased when he
found both his shot and false fires spent in vain;
for certain signals being agreed on, which were not
answered, they supposed she was either loss, or that
the people in her had fallen a prey to the savages ;
and this they had greater reason to fear, as they
saw a fire on shore, not at all answering theirs.
Their prospect was, at this time, very di-mal, for
they had not hands sufficient oil board to weigh
anchor or manage the flip; however, it brightened
with the return of the boat, which it seems had been
retarded by a very unexpected and sudden ebb,
that obliged the men on board her to wait the rising
of the tide. They reported that some wood grew
on the land, and that there was a good deal thrown
on shore by the waves ; they could discern no sign
of inhabitants, but saw shore of fowl, of which
they killed some, and traced the footsteps both of
bears and deer on the snow: they also reported
they had forded two small rivers, and tried a third,
which was too deep for them to cross.

In the morning of the 29th, a flip was discovered
about four leagues to the leeward ; it proved to
be a king's ship, commanded by captain Fox, who
exchanged with them the usual salutes. That evening
they sent their boat on board of him, and the
following day he and some of his officers repaid the
visit, and were received in the befit: manner circumstances
would permit. Next morning she food
away to the south southwest, and was soon out of
fight.




This




CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 51

This month terminated in snow and hail, and
the weather was as severe as it is commonly in England
in the depth of winter.

On the ifs of September they coated along
shore, in shallow water, and as the day cleared up
made drift to work out of this dangerous bay.
From the 2d to the 10th they laboured in various
sorts of weather, never losing sight of land, and
meeting with weather so very severe on the 4th and
6th, that they thought they should not be able to
hold' it out much longer. The wind blew a mod
dreadful hurricane, accompanied with hail and
snow; the sea, which ran mountains high, washed
over deck, poured into the hold, and made its way
into the bread-room, where it spoiled almond all
the provision.

On the 11 th, they made an idand in fifty-two
degrees and forty-five minutes, on which the captain
went ashore in the boat, and afterwards sent
some of the men to another part of it; but neither
he nor they could find the dulled verdure,
not so much as a little sorrel, fcurvy-grafs, or the
lead relief for the sick men. On the 12th, in the
morning, the wind blowing hard at south-end, the
ship ran upon the rocks, thro the neglect of those
who were on deck ; and now a wreck seeming inevitable,
the carpenters tools, a barrel of bread,
a barrel of powder, six muskets, a tinder-box and
matches, with hilling-hooks, lines, pitch and oakum,
were sent ashore to serve in extremity.

In the mean time they clewed up all the sails,
laid out an anchor to heave her adorn, threw out
all the coals, saved the water in the hold, and set
the pump to work, to get it out in order to lighten
the flip, intending to have done the same with
the beer ; at length, after continuing more than
five hours to drive mod dreadfully, so that it ft em-ned
her bottom could not lad, she beat over the

D 2 rocks,





Z2


THE VOYAGE OF


rocks, in a very leaky condition, which they went
about to cure as soon as she was got into deep water,
andfecured by an anchor. After this adventure
it began to blow hard at west south-weft; and
had this gale sprung up while die was on the rocks,
it would have been impossible to have saved her.

On the 13th they weighed anchor, and stood to
the west ward ; but there being no anchoring ground
that promised safety, it was resolved to take a northward
course, and make for the bottom of Hudfon’s
Bay, thence to endeavour to find a passage into
the river of Canada ; and if that failed, to winter
on the main land, w T which must be preferable to
the present comfortless, as well as very dangerous
station among rocks, fiats, and islands. In the
evening of the 14th it blew very hard,* the seas
ran high, and the shallop, which w T as fastened a-
stern in tow with two hawsers, shipped a huge
Pea and was sunk; so that she was inevitably lost,
and the flip had only one boat left, and that in a
very crazy condition : hove ever, before night they
found a safe anchoring-place in an opening; one
side of which was formed by lord Weston Island,
and here the men had feme rest : remaining till
the 19th, during all which time the wind was high,
and the snow very violent; so that they feared putting
out their boat, and kept her on deck.

On the 19th, the wind coming about to north
north-east, they stood out to the southward ; but
about noon, the wind chopping about south, they
anchored off the Earl of Bristles Island ; and while
in this place the carpenter repaired the boat, the
captain went ashore, but found not the leaf! mark
of a living creature having ever been on it before :
and now finding that the wind teemed fixed in a
northerly point, so that Hudfon’s Bay was not to
be reached, they began to'look out for a w inter
ing place elsewhere. Some nan ed Port Nelson ;

but


CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 53

but the captain excepted again!! it, not only for
the danger of the place itself, but the difficulty of
getting thither thro the ice ; and for this reason he
determined to look out for some convenient creek
to the southward.

On the 22d the captain ventured to land upon
an id and in latitude fifty-two degrees and ten minutes,
which he called Sir Thomas Rowers Island ;
but the wind changing while he was ashore, it was
with much difficulty he recovered the flip. The
weather, while they continued here, was very
changeable, and intolerably cold; besides, the
shoals upon which they were ahnoR every moment
driven by the tide, threatened them with
inevitable destruction • however, here they Raid
till about the 30th.

CHAP. HI.

Heavy fnozv: the Ships all frozen over : a hove! ejected
ashore for the sick : the if and appears to be entirely
barren: a man hjl: a sin ki eg pmclfoimd
out : a good-well sunk: their hovel is in dagger of
being burned: the gunner dies , and. is buried in the
fa: the flip is run aground , and all hands leave her ;
the captain makes a speech to the men: they undertake
building a pinnace. ,

I - **

C HS! the fR of October they got under sail j
P. but could make scarcely any way for the
multiplicity of sand-banks. On the 4th, the captain
went ashore on the earl of Daiiby’s Grands ;
but found nothing except a few berries. On the
7th it snowed so violently, that they were forced
to clear the deck of it with shovels ; and the mow
being frozen over all parts of the flip, She appeared
like a lump of ice ; the fun which shone out the
following day, not being Wrong enough to have

D 3 the




54 THE VOYAGE OF

the slighted effect upon it. The cold now increased
ib much that they could scarcely preserve any thing
from freezing, even by the fire side ; and as for
the sails they were now of no manner of use, being
quite spoiled with the ice.

As several of the men were very sickly, the carpenter
and feme of the crew, by way of assistants,
let about erecting a hovel for them on the shore,
to see if that would contribute to restore them,
while the captain, with some attendants, ranged
the island in search of inhabitants; but found
not any thing that could be of the least use to
the people : though he was fatigued with wading
through the snow, which reached up to the
middle of the leg. In the mean time, the bail
ors on board took down the top-fails, and folded
them up, laying them carefully between decks, after
they had dried them at a good fire made on
the hearth in the hatchway.

On the 12th, the main-fail sheet, being firs thawed
by the fire, was carried ashore to cover the
newly dressed hovel; after which, the six persons
who had raised it, being furnished with two greyhounds
which the captain had brought out to assist
in killing deer, or other game, as well as with
muskets and other furniture, were permitted to lie
ashore all night.

On the 13th, some of the men desired leave
to traverse the country; which being granted, with
a charge that they should keep together, and lookout
for a convenient harbour for the flip, ' they
went, and returned on the 15th with a small lean.,
deer, which they had cut into quarters ; they reported
they had seen a few more, but no sign of
any other bead, nor yet of inhabitant nor port.
On the 13th, William Clements the lieutenant went
on the same errand, with five of the crew, and
reaped nothing but hardship in their progress : dun
ring



CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 55

ting which they lost one of their hands whose name
was John Barton : he was gunners mate, and sunk
in attempting to cross the ice of a pond that flood
in the way rather than go a little about.

On the 1 ft of November the captain overhauled
the stewards account of the ships provision, which
he found very exact, and things well husbanded.
On the 9th, the boat with great difficulty coming
ashore, because of the snow and ice, brought
from the flip a barrel of beer; it froze firmly,
and being thawed in a kettle over the fire, contracted
a most disagreeable table, which caused
them to seek the means of breaking the ice of a
neighbouring pond ; but thereout issuing a most
loathsome smell, orders were given for none to
touch it, left it should be infectious : this disappointment
induced them to fink a well near their
dwelling, which afforded them excellent water that
seemed sweet and nourishing as milk.

On the 12th, their house took fire, but the flame
was soon extinguished, and this accident taught
them to keep stricter watch ; very large fires being
absolutely necessary. On the 22d, the gunner,
whose leg was cut off, died, and was buried in the
sea, at a good distance from the flip ; he had been
indulged with as much sack as he could drink
for about three days before his death ; and his
bottle, that contained it, often froze at his beds
head, as did the plaister at his wound, though he
was covered with a load of cloaths, and a pan of
live coals was kept constantly in his cabbin, which
was made up as close as could be, in the gun
room.

On the 23d, the flip was in manifest .danger of
being driven from her moorings by several pieces
of ice running foul of her, the least of them a
quarter of a mile over, and they strained the cable
considerably: in this extremity the crew fired fig

4 nais



56 THE VOYAGE OF

nails of distress., which were answered by the
hands ashore, who were not able to go off to hera
hi fiance ; however, they made towards her in the
boat, as soon as ever day permitted; and then it
was determined to run her a-ground, in order to
preserve her as long as possible ; for it was evident
that neither cables nor anchors would hold her
long against the driving ice and high winds.

When this resolution was agreed on, she was
run in as close upon the shore as could be, and the
provisions and powder seat in the boat to the hovel:
tho she was bedded in two feet depth of
sand, she continued to beat very violently; on
which the captain ordered the carpenter to bore a
hole with an auger in her bottom, and in about
six hours the water rose upon her, not without
having broken into the powder and bread-rooms,
and otherwise damaged her between decks; after
which she began to settle ; and they helped her
down with throwing into the hold her cables,
(pare anchors, and other luggage, among which
was the surgeons chef This was on the 29th, in
the evening, when they took to the boat, being
seventeen in all; and the water was so thick congealed
with snow, that it was with much hardship
they reached the shore, by doable manning four
oars, and appointing four others to relieve them ;
and they were so altered with adhesive snow and
ice, that on their landing they scarce knew each
other.

When they had hailed up the boat, it being
now dark, they groped their way to their hovel,
where having made a good fire, they regaled upon
water melted before it, and some bread: then
they entered into a debate concerning their Elation
; and tho the carpenter gave it as his opinion
that the flip was quite foundered, and if not
quite so, that she was rendered useless by the loss

of



CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 57

of her rudder ; yet the captain thought otherwise,
and encouraged his. people to keep up their spirits
with a well-worded speech, in which he observed
to them, That their present condition was very deplorable
; yet a reliance upon that Providence, which
never forsakes those who confide in it, would convince
them of its efficacy ; that they had numberless
examples of people being reduced to circumstances
rather worse than theirs, and either finding
or procuring relief at times when it was scarcely
to be expelled ; that a pinnace might at the worst
be built out of the wreck of the flip, in case (lie
was irretrievably lost, with which, the Divine Providence
assisting, they might once more be enabled
to reach Old England. To this hint the carpenter
answered, No industry of his should be wanting, towards
extricating them out of this place; that if
the crew would aid him, he imagined the island on
which they were produced timber enough proper
for building a pinnace, without meddling with
the flip, which might by some good chance, be
again rendered more useful than now seemed probable.
And all the men replying, they would da
their utmost to help forward whatever work he
should undertake for the public good, the captain
promised a liberal reward to the industrious,
and to the carpenter, by way of encouragement,
gave ten pounds worth of plate immediately, a Turing
him, that in case he completed the pinnace,
on their arrival in England he would make him a
present of that, and of five pounds besides.

On the 30th the surgeon played the barber, and
cut the hair and beards bf the whole fliip’s company,
which were so if rung with icicles as to become
very painful.

On the 1 ft of December some of the men made
way in the boat, thro the thick congealed water,
to the (hips side, to bring some necessaries ashore;

D 5 but



58 THE VOYAGE OF

but night coming on, they were obliged to lie onboard,
being almost starved with cold, tho they
made a shift to light up a fire upon the deck. The
following day was so extremely cold, that the way
to the lip was quite frozen, and the men walked
ashore over the ice with five hundred dry fish, some
cloaths and bedding, which were quite spoiled
with the wet; however, in such circumstances as
those of the captain and his people at that time,
any covering that contributed to warmth was welcome.


On the 3d, the weather being something milder,
some of the men saved themselves, with difficulty,
from being drowned in crossing the ice, which broke
under them; and the wind being westerly, such
pieces of ice as were loose drove out to sea, and
in their passage in some measure damaged the flip
as they rubbed by her. And now the men having
dug the boat out from among the ice that surrounded
it, endeavoured to hoofs her in upon the
deck of the flip, but all their whole strength united
being insufficient to raise her all the way, they
were obliged to leave her suspended in the tackles
by the ships side, a foot or two below the surface
of the deck.

The time from this day to the 18 th aspect in
bringing to the hovel, and a new storehouse erected
near it, such provision and other necessaries as remained
to be brought from the flip, while the carpenter
and some assisting hands were collecting w 7 good
for the pinnace; but many of those who laboured
at this work had their fingers, cheeks, noses, and
other tender parts frozen as white as snow itself,
which fell very sass; and the cold daily increased,
raising very large blisters on those who exposed
themselves too openly or too suddenly to the fire.

Their spring-well being now frozen up, so that
they could not Find water for digging, they were

reduced


CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 59

reduced to the necessity of drinking snow-water, a
beverage every way unwholsome, causing ugly eruptions,
and shortness of breath : even their sack, vinegar,
oil and brandy became like pieces of wood, and
they were obliged to hew them with hatchets for use;
nay, the frost was so severe as to penetrate within
a yard of the fire-fide, tho the door was kept close
shut. The snow fell so thick that it reached near
the height of the roof of the house ; so that they
were obliged to cut a passage thro it, and keep
that passage clear by (hovering away the new fallen
snow every day; and this consolidating served for
the captains gallery and sick mens walk, the surface
of it being a yard above the ground at lead.

About this time captain James recollecting, that
on his fire landing he had discovered a good spring
by the foot of a hill at a little distance, near which
he had ordered two or three trees to be cut down
by way of mark, sent some of the men to search
for it, who soon found the place; and, showering
away the snow, came to its head, and brought him
a can of it, whereby he was considerably refreshed.
This discovery proved of great service to these
distressed people; for the Spring ran Strongly the
whole year, and if the fever eft weather froze the
passage to it, it was So triflingly, that it was easily
set open.

It being now Christmas, they observed that Sacred
festival with as much Solemnity as possible;
and on St. Johns day agreed to call the place of
their abode Winter's Forest, in memory of Sir John
Winter.


D 6


C H A P*



6o


THE VOYAGE O F


CHAP. IV.

They begin the new year with feme ash nominal olfova¬
tions: an attempt at accounting for the generation of
ice : the people grew very sickly : various effects of
the cold: the carpenter is disabled : they lose their
boat , and endeavour to raise the flip.

O N the 6th of January, an observation being
taken, the fun filming very clear, Winter's
Forest was found to be in fifty-one degrees and
fifty-two minutes, a difference caused by the great "
rarefaction that prevails here.

On the 21 ft, the fun, when just risen above the
horizon, appeared of an oval figure, but by degrees
seemed to reassume its common form as it
role.

On the ’30th and 31ft, all the Via Lacteal, the
cloud in Cancer and the Pleiades appeared to be
full of small stars, as was the whole skie, beyond,
says captain James, any night he had ever before
seen; but more than one fourth of them were soon
eclipsed in the^moon’s lustre which fhoneout about
ten o’ clock at night. In the beginning of this
month, the sea had been all over frozen, so that no
water was to be seen; and the wind was for the
roost part northerly, and excessively cold : the few
intermitting hours that were tollerably mild were
employed in bringing wood for firing,, working at
the pinnace, and keeping the avenues cut from the
dwelling and storehouse, thro the snow, from being
blocked up.

Captain James, in his journal, endeavours thus
to account for the generation of that ice, which
hereabouts covers the surface of the sea. After
the middle of September, says he, it seldom rains,
but snows daily very heavily ; and this snow falling

at






CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 61

at ebb in large quantities, upon the shoals and
sand banks, of which there are great numbers in
this bay, is carried out by the flood, and meeting
together on the surface, coagulates and unites from
the different parts; besides, the fire strong oracle,
such as an island or ledge of rocks that it
meets with, impedes the progress the whole mass,
which is increased and extended by the additional
shows washed off by every tide, which at length
becoming so thick as almost to stagnate the water,
is in that state of inaction rendered more fit to sustain
the impression of the weather, and form into
one extensive plate of ice.

The cold was as severe the whole month of
February as it had been at any'time in the whole
year, and its dismal effects were bitterly felt by
those curious' adventurers, loosening their teeth,
swelling their gums, and putting them to such
pain that they could not eat their victuals ; and m df
of them afforded the surgeon daily opportunities
of improving his practice.

Abroad, the air was scarce to be endured, no
cloaths being proof against its penetration ; for it
froze over the hair and eye-lids, so as almost: to suffocate
those who opposed it. The walls of the
dwelling were hung with icicles ; even the bed-cloths,
which were almost close to the Are, were
covered with white frost ; and the water in the tub
wherein the cook freshened his meat, froze to the
bottom during one watch that he slept, tho it was
not a yard from the fire: after this accident lie put
it into a brass kettle close to the fire, and even
there, while the water next it was w arm, that
on the other side was frozen an inch deep very often;
and tho the surgeon took what care he could
of his syrups and other medicaments, they underwent
ths f; me h te; nor could the clock nor watches



62 THEVOYAGEOF

be protected from its influence: nay, the ground
was frozen ten feet below-the surface.

Notwithstanding all these extremities, the men
did their bell: to perform the necessary work, tho*
they had no shoes ; what they had being quite destroyed
between the snow and the fire, wherefore
they were forced to wrap clouts about their feet as
warmly as they could contrive.

On the 15 th of March, one of the men imagining
he had seen a deer, engaged two or three others
to go, with the captains leave, in pursuit of it;
but they returned at night successless, and so diff
able with cold, that they could not stir for a fortnight
after, having their legs and the foies of their
feet covered with blisters as big as walnuts ; and
three others who roved out upon the same account
a few days after, were rather worse off, for they
were near perishing in the cold. The providing
timber for fewel, as well as for working the pinnace,
vas attended with much difficulty; for the hatchets
and axes were all either broke in the blades,
sockets, or handles; yet these were the only instruments
they had to cut down trees and form
them : besides, it was very difficult to find
wood fit for firing; that which was green causing
such a smoke as almost to suffocate those who sat
round it, and species of turpentine sliced from that
which was dry, causing also a smoke, which
tho not so intollerable as the other, yet covered
them with foot, and made them look like a parcel
of chimney-weepers.

In the month of April, the carpenter, who had
for some time past been carried out to w T work, and
four men besides, became so infirm that they
weren't able to move; and the boatswain with
several others sickened apace ; so that, there were
but five men left who could eat their allowance
: yet, with their assistance, the captain determined.





CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 63

mined, as the weather was growing more mild,
to dig out the ice which lay in the flip, that
they might have her in greater readiness to make
the belt use of ,at a proper season. And for this
work they had but two iron bars, and four broken
novels; it was his intention to heap the ice which
he had dug out of her, on her larboard bow,
and by such means form a barricade to prevent her
from being damaged when the ice should break in
the bay; which it was to be feared might, in her
present crazy condition, shatter her all to pieces. On
the 6th of April fell larger and thicker snow than
any they had hitherto seen upon this place ; for that,
tvhich was common here, was small and dry as duff,
and drove before the wind, so as to endanger the
eyes and throats of such as faced it.

It was remarkable, that in cloudy dull weather,
an island bearing south south-end, four leagues
from Winter's Foret, was plainly to be seen from
the lowed: station; and yet in clear sunny weather
it was not to be discerned even from an eminence;
the reason of this is, that a mill or gentle fog performs
the office of a magnifying-glass.

On the 16th, being a comfortable fun-shiny day,
they cleared the blip’s deck of snow, and made a
good fire in her cabbin to dry her. On the 17th
they dug up her anchor from under the ice, in
shoal water, and brought it on board; and indeed
they found they had no recourse but to make the
bed they could of the flip; for the boat was bulged,
and, at the bed, too small to do them any
service, as it was neither large enough to dow all
the men, nor wrong enough to live upon the main
sea; besides, the carpenter being pad hope of recovery,
their pinnace could be of no advantage to
them. On the 19th, the mater and two others
chose to lie on board, that they might withdraw
themselves from the lamentation and outcries of

their


/


64 'THE VOYAGE OF

their nek shipmates, which were very melancholy*
nor had their bedding during the whole winter been
in the lead comfortable ; but their chance was no
worse than that of the rest of the ships crew.

On the 23d they pierced a calk of beer, which
they dug out of the hold ; and tho it was little better
than bilge-water, it gave them all great satisfaction.


The bed part of this month was consumed in
topping the holes they had bored in the flip to
fink her, in repairing her other damages, and freeing
her from the ice and snow that overwhelmed
her ; it was a work, fuchof the hands as were able
pursued with great alacrity: and by the 28th, the
cook, by pouring into them water boiling hot, and
that incessantly, had set both pumps free from the
ice, and they delivered water very well On the
29th it rained all day long, which gave them great
joy, as it was a certain sign that winter was broke
up, and about to give place to a gentler season ;
and tho it hailed, snowed, and was very cold the
30th and rid, yet the rain had given them such
spirits, that on May eve they loaded their respective
mistresses in the bed liquor they had, over a
good fire.


CHAP,






CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES, 65


CHAP. V.

In neighing up the flip they arrive at same useful
pores : they lose two of their men: the snow begins
to melt fall: they find their rudder : James's opinion
with respect to the generation of mujkettnes : the
flip is launched , and they prepare to quit IP enters
For eft: the whole island is jet on fire .

rpHE thaw increased as May grew old, tho s
JL the weather was so bitter on the 2d,
that those who had any Strength dure not Pir over
their threshold ; and it made the Pick, who swooned
at being turned in their beds, so very sore, that
they were more peevish than ever. On the 4th, as the
melted flow began to lie in ladies, some cranes and
geese made their appearance, but were so very fearful
that there was no getting at them ; the captain
and surgeon endeavoured it for above two hours,
but got nothing for their trouble, but fitch violent
aches, for they had waded thro the new thawed
slow in many places, that James declared he thought,
without exaggerating, he Should have loP his legs.
On the 6th, they buried John Warden, the masters
chief mate, on the top of a neighbouring sandy
hill, which they called Brandon Hill.

On the 9th they heaved out of the hold five
barrels of beef and pork, four butts of beer, and
a case of cyder, which was well flavoured, and had
by some providential chance been finely preserved.

On the 12th, they came at the flore-shoes which
macklin all winter in the water; yet, they were
very serviceable, and every man fitted himself with
a pair when they were dried by the fire ; they
also found a tierce of wine, but hard frozen ; but
what they had moi reason to lament was the loss
of their rudder, for which they searched among

the


66 THE VOYAGE OF

the ice in the neighbourhood of the flip, to no
manner of purpose.

On the 14th, the boatswain, with some hands
to help, laboured hard to get ready the rigging, and
clear it from the ice, while the cooper, tho very
infirm, made up and refitted some casks, it being
the captains intention, if he could not get the
ship otherwise easily off, to pass some cables under
her, and buoy her up with casks. The same
day the captain having made bullets with some
old pewter and the aprons of guns, for they would
not touch the carpenters sheet lead, went out to
.kill wild fowl for the lick: and on the 15th he
manured a small flip of ground that was free
from snow, and sowed it with pease, in hopes to
have some few greens for the use of the men, to
which they had been hangers since their landing
here.

On the 18 th died William Cole the carpenter, he
having before his death nearly completed the pinnace,
which was a well proportioned vessel, of about
fourteen tons burthen, twenty-seven feet by
the keel, ten feet by the beam, and five feet in
hold : this man was buried close by the mailer’s
mate on Brandon-hill. In the evening of the same
day, the body of the gunner, who died six months
before, was discovered with his head downwards
among the ice, just under the gun-room ports;
the captain ordered it to be dug out and buried
with the rest. It was remarkable that he sent
forth no noisome smell, the plaister was flicking
to his wound, and he was very little altered, except
that his flesh hung very.loofe on his bones.
The snows by this time were pretty well fallen allover
the island ; but there was no sign of the ice
breaking in the bay, tho the fun was often pretty
warm till the 24th, when it began to crack with a
most dreadful noise; soon after which signal it broke.


CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 67

and drove with the tide, and then appeared the
advantage of the barricade ; for it was plain that
it protected the flip from being dashed to pieces ;
and A he same day one David Harmon drinking his
lance down among the ice, luckily hit upon and
brought up the rudder. On the 30th, they launched
their boat, and the adage about the drip was
quite free for her to paddle in, a sight that gave
great joy to the whole ships crew. This day they
found some fetches, which were boiled for the
lick ; they also had prepared their sails and rigging,
dried their fish, and aired their provision,
there being only the captain and mater able to
eat any thing fait.

In the beginning of June there was so severe a
return of cold, that things once again froze under
roofs; however, it passed off; and on tenth*
after having laboured at it five or six days, they
made a drift to hang the rudder; and the fetches,
which were every day gathered, and divided
among the broth given to the men, or eaten with
oil and vinegar, proved wonderful restoratives :
they began daily to recruit, they were able to eat
bees, their teeth being reddened, and the swelling
of their gums reduced.

O11 the 10th of this month there was some thunder
and lightning, and the weather was so hot,
that several of the sailors diverted themselves with
swimming: in the ponds were plenty of a sort
of frogs, which the men feared eating, led they
should have proved toads: the ground swarmed
with ants, and the air was full of butterflies, and
several other species of dies, particularly mulattoes,
which were excessively troublesome : it was the
opinion of captain James, that they revived from
the rotten wood, in which the winter's cold confined
them in an inactive date.


On


68 THE VOYAGE OF

On the 17th, they made a shift, having lightened
the (hip of every thing, to heave her off into &
foot and a half deeper water, where they moored
her; and on the evening of the 22d, they towed her
into her old anchoring place, where she had rode
the preceding year, taking care to keep her clear
of the driving sea. The 23d, they shifted some
provisions, being forced to wade to the boat with
them, at least a musket idiots length ; and on the
24th they made a cross of one of the highest trees
in the island, to which they affixed the pictures of
king Charles and his queen, well drawn, but close
- wrapped in lead, so that no air could possibly affect
them; and underneath were inferred his titles,
viz.

Charles king of England, Scotland, France,
and Ireland, also of Newfoundland, and the territories
to the westward as far as Nova Albion j and
to the northward to the latitude of eighty degrees.

On the outside of the lead they nailed a shilling
and a sixpence of king Charles's coin, and under
it his arms, beneath which were those of Bristol
city, both neatly cast in lead. This cross thus
ornamented, they erected over their dead companions
on the top of Brandon Hill; at the same
time taking possession of the land in his molt sacred
majesty's name.

On the 25th, the boatswain with some of the belt
hands to assist him, set about rigging the flip, and
putting the provisions and other necessaries onboard.
About ten in the morning of the same
day, captain James, accompanied by one of the
sailors, took a lance, a mu fleet, and some fewel to
kindle a fire near a very high tree, which they
called the Watch-tree, and used often to climb,
because it afforded a good prospers. It was the
captains intention to observe, while the fire was
burning, whether it would be answered by another

fire


CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES, 69

fire, or any particular signal; whereby he might
obtain a knowledge of the manner in which this
place was inhabited.

He had scarcely fettled himself on the top of his
observatory, before he perceived that his attendant
had unadvisedly fired some brambles to the windward
of him, which catching hold of the dry
stubble or furze that ran among the trees, communicated
the flame, which ran from one to another
with great rapidity ; bending its direct course
towards that in which the captain had fixed his fiction,
and that so quickly that it reached it before he
could get down ; wherefore he was obliged to
make a leap at the hazard of his neck, and tho*
he made what hafiz he could, the fire seemed to
pursue and follow close at his heels; it continued
to burn, spreading over the whole island all night
long; and the wind stuffing in the morning
brought it down upon the little village, if we may
call it so, of the ships company; and they had
scarcely . carried away all their things, before it
laid hold of their house and flore-house, which it
burned to allies. It came down with a violent
crackling noise, in breadth more than a mile, and
continued its devastation for two days, consuming
all before it. The 26th at night, they all lay onboard,
and thought themselves happier than ever
they had been in their lives before. /

The 27th, 28th and 29th, they brought their
water, and timber for fewel on board, part of which
was the pinnace, which having no use for, they
had cut down. By this time the bay was quite
clear of ice, no marks of which were to be seen;
it being all gone to the northward. The season
was certainly very unwholesome, for in the daytime,
the heat, which was considerably increased
by the sandy soil, was intolerable ; yet at night it

would


70 THE VOYAGE OF

would freeze over the ponds to the depth of an Inch :
but no other inconveniency equalled the flinging
of the mulattoes, against which there was scarcely
any defence to be made; for tho they made bags
to put their heads in, out of pieces of the ensign,
which they tore for that purpose, these insects
would make their way thro, and raise hard pimples
on the skin, which caused very violent itching.

CHAP. VI.

they fnd some fcurvy-grafs , and after a few days

more quit the if and. A description of the place .

fT^HE ill of July being Sunday, they horded
jL the fliip’s colours, and adorned her in the
bed manner they could ; after which the crew
walked in procession to the place whereon they had
erected the cross, which being quite a fancy hill,
had escaped the conflagration; here having heard
prayers read by the captain, they dined, and spent
the remainder of the day in climbing the hills ; and
according to the bed calculation they could make, it
appeared that the conflagration had extended more
than sixteen miles: in the evening they found an herb
like scurvy grass, of which they gathered a large
quantity, and it proved, when boiled, a mod
agreeable food.

And now they determined to quit this place entirely,
but find the captain having drawn up a
brief account of his expedition by way of letter,
for information of any person who should chance
to touch here after him, enclosed it in a leaden
cover, and affixed it to the cross under the king's
arms: then they put off in the boat, and they
never after set foot upon Winter's Foret, or Charlton
island; for to this name they had changed it

on



CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 71

ton the 29th of May, in honour of the prince of
Wales, afterwards Charles the second.

However, before we attend them in their voyage
home, it may perhaps afford some little entertainment,
if we give a short account of this island in
general, and the manner in. which captain James
people made out the winter.

Charlton island, we have observed before, lies in
latitude fifty-one degrees fifty-two minutes ; the
soil is a small white sand, which drives like duff
before the wind, and often proved extremely troublesome;
it is covered with a low white moss, interspersed
with thickets of shrubs, and several trees
of spruce and juniper, the trunks of the largest of
which were not more than a foot and a half diameter.
They killed one deer, and fawn few others
when they first landed, but had very little or no
view of them afterwards ; there were two or three
other sorts of four-legged animals, besides bears,
and foxes, and they killed some dozen of the latter,
which were boiled for the use of the sick, being
caught in traps: here were also some few
ducks, geese, and white partridges in the month of
May, some of which they (hot ; but their ammunition
chanced to be soon exhausted. As for fish
they seemed to be unknown to the climate, there
not being the slighted: mark of any, except two or
three cockle shells, which had nothing in them.

The place which James chose to winter in, was
a tuft of thick trees under cover of a southern
bank, which protected him from the violence of
the north wind. At find he found much difficulty
to erect any sort of habitation; for to try finking
a room under ground was fruitless, there being-water
every where within two or three feet of
the surface: they could get no tones to raise
a wall, for the few that appeared on the island,
were on his find coming hither buried beneath the


72 THE VOYAGE OF

snow; and there was no earth with which they
could form mud walls; for the sand was of such a
nature, that it could be wrought to no consistency.
However, they remedied these great inconveniencies
as well as possible, by driving flakes into the ground
pretty close to each other, and running wattles between
them, which when beaten down hard, formed
a sort of bulwark against the severity of the weather
; this was about six feet high, and at each end
was left a large hole almost reaching to the top of
the building, which served for the different purposes
of admitting light, affording an exit to the smoke,
and an entry to the inhabitants : at a little distance
were laid piles of trees six feet high, and fix a
cross, besides which at both ends thick rows of
bushes, and over all these were hung the main
yard and other sails, which reached clown to the
ground, and were no inconsiderable addition to the
warmth of the place, which was quite square, being
twenty feet every way. Withinfide, in the
very middle, was an hearth for firing; and roundabout,
the men erected bedsteads supported by
flakes, more than a foot from the ground, oh
which over the spare sails they spread their beds
and bed-deaths ; on the door they laid boards to
prevent as much as possible the damps from affecting
them, at leaf! within doors.

At the distance of twenty feet from this was
erected a second habitation, not quite so large as
the first ; on the south side of which, instead of
flakes, there was a pile of tea-chests, and here all
the victuals were died, and the subordinate crew
generally spent the day.

Twenty paces from this was a sort of flore-house,
in which was kept bread, fish, and other
provision, laid about two feet from the ground,
in such a manner as to preserve them dry : this last
house was only a rough large tree sustained by

rafters,


CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 73

rafters, and Prong boughs, and covered over with
the new fuit of sails.

Their provision confided of fait beef, pork,
fill, &c. of which they had a Pock that would
serve for eighteen months and longer, if husbanded,
as it certainly was, with care. The manner in
which the cook dealt it out was this. On Sunday,
he gave them for dinner pork and pease, and for
supper beef and porridge, which had been boiled
sufficiently. on Saturday night to freshen it, and
when re-heated, proved an excellent cordial, after
this they generally had a course of fill; and in
the same manner the bees which was provided for
any particular day, was got ready the preceding
night : those who by the soreness of their mouths
were prevented from (having the mess, fed either on
oatmeal or pounded bread fried in oil, or pease
boiled to pap : their common drink was water;
but the weak and sickly were allowed a pint of
valiant daily, and a dram of brandy every morning,
tho the spirit of both those liquors was almoP
deployed by their being frozen ; a misfortune
which nothing could prevent. However, when
they had a mind to make merry, they mixed one
quart of wine with seven quarts of water, and
tho this was a very weak potion, they found it
exhilarated their spirits in some measure.

Monday July the 2d, all hands were up early in
the morning, and having put all things to rights,
they weighed anchor chearfully, and Pood over
for Darby island to take in more wood, the wind
being north-weP ; and the Pip wearing gallantly,
to all appearance free from damage, and sufficiency
able to outlaw their-intended voyage.

While the men were employed in gathering
wood on Darby islands the captain pulled up, to
examine them, some Makes, that seemed to have
been cut (harp at both ends with a hatchet or some
Vol. IV. E other














74 THE VOYAGE OF

other iron tool; with the head of which, it was
apparent, they had been driven into the ground,
about a place where there were evident marks of
Ere: and this discovery whetted the captains desire
to come to a conference with some of the savages,
whereby he hoped to be enabled to increase his
knowledge of the situation of these parts, and
perhaps start some commerce that might turn out
beneficial to his country ; but this was a hope that
he vainly indulged, for no inhabitants of any sort
appeared.

About four in the afternoon he returned onboard,
and the wind coming about contrary, he
came to anchor for that night off Charlton island ;
from whence he bore away to the west the following
day, and about noon discovered a large quantity
of ice to the northward, and soon after saw
the western land all frozen : the channel in which
they now were was very dangerous, full of rocks
and shoals; wherefore they were obliged to keep
the lead continually going.


CHAP. VII.

Various observations made in their voyage hotr.e^ and
some reason offered a gain ft the probability cf a
north-weft passage.

F R O M the 5th to the 21 ft, they made very
little way, being either retarded by fogs so
thick as almost to blind them, or by the ice, which
drove against them with such force, that they often
feared, from the repeated shocks, their Chip
would be shattered to pieces, but file happily
putrid it all with great steadiness; indeed the
hatches were kept open, that the men might have
frequent opportunities of examining and repairing
any damage that might befall her.


The



CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES. 75

The 22d, after a rough boisterous night, and
a slinking thick fog, as it cleared up, they saw
land, and knew it to be Cape Henrietta Maria $
they flood in for it, and the captain and some of
the men went ashore, with the dogs and arms, in
hope to have taken or killed some deer, of which
they saw many herds; but tho they endeavoured
to surprize them, they could not bring down one,
for the game took care to keep beyond the reach
of gun-shot, and easily outstripped the dogs. Captain
James turned them both adrift upon the bland,
being a dog and a bitch, one of them having a cob
lar round the neck ; the reason he gave for leaving
them here, was that he had brought them out for
the purpose of catching deer, in which fence it was
plain they could not be serviceable, keeping them
longer on board was to no purpose; they being
troublesome and inconvenient, healing the meat
out of the water in which it was left to steep,
and being in many other respects mischievous.

In the evening, they returned on board, and
hood out to sea, the wind blowing fair from the
south ; they soon fell in among shattered pieces of
ice, and came into hioal water, but tacking a little
to the northward, it deepened again : as the ice
bore very hard upon them, all hands were ordered
upon deck to man the poles, to each of which
there was a necessity for having four men ; and
with these they made a shift to keep it pretty well
off, tho it often overpowered their utmoh efforts,
and came with violent shocks again her side,
two of the poles being broken off short. In extremities
of this sort, they laboured for more than
six weeks, every day exposed to the tides assaults,
sometimes using their sails, and having sometimes
recourse to their anchors, when they could get a
little into open water; sometimes they were ene

2 tireiy













y 6 THE VOYAGE OF

timely surrounded with ice, and at other times the
wind blew so excessive hard, that they did not expert
to live more than an hour upon the surface;
while the nights were so extremely dark, there
was no seeing what was to be done; nor was it
much better in the day time, the fogs were so
very heavy.

The nights were long and so extremely cold,
that it was almost impossible to handle the sails and
rigging without differing severely; the sudden
violent gusts of wind that now and then sprung
up, one of. which laced three days, threatened
unavoidable definition: winter was again coming
on fah, and the sea seemed so firmly covered with
ice, that no course appeared more unattainable,
than that of making Hudfon’s Straits; besides,
there was a necessity for better weather, even
to attempt it if the sea was clear, which was not
now to be hoped for. The flip was besides
so leaky, that they were forced to ply the pump
every hour, a talk extremely fatiguing; and she
was moreover so very much bruised with dashing
again the rocks and ice, that she was certainly
not to be trussed much longer.

Ah these reasons conspired to induce the officers
of the flip to request in form of the captain to
fleer a homeward course, now that it seemed to
them impossible to make any advantage by continuing
longer in these seas ; this they did in a
writing, on the 26th of August, to which they
all signed their names ; and in consequence of this
sollicitation, he ordered the pilot to put about the
helm, and go upon another course.

The 27th, the wind came about at north-weft
with show and very cold weather, during which
many huge concretions of ice, some reaching above
the top-mash head, swept by them : the 31ft of this
month they were in the narrowed: part of the

Strait,



CAPTAIN THOMAS JAMES, 77

Strait, and saw the land covered with ice, and
much more to the leeward.

The beginning of September, they cleared the
Straits, and met with various winds, and such
bitter cold, that it was with difficulty the men
could take in the top and sprit fails in an evening.
O11 the 8 th, they had a tumbling sea, the wind coming
in squalls, and the flip rowling so very much,
they were afraid sie would have brought her maids
by the board; besides, her seams gaped so much
that all hands lay wet, and her leaks required
a constant attention to the pump; however, after
this day they saw no more ice, the wind was in
their favour, and the flip made indifferently good
way ; coming to anchor without having met with
any thing elfe very remarkable, in the Bristol road
on the 22d of October. When they examined her
defects, on her being brought into harbour and
haled ashore, it was wonderful to think how sie
had ever made her desired port; for besides other
signal damages, sie had lost fourteen feet of her
keel, her stern, and great part of her sheathing;
her timbers were cracked within the board, and
on one place had been pierced by a sharp rock,
a fair inch and half above the sheathing.

It was the opinion of captain James when he returned
from this expedition, that there was no northwest
passage at all ; and his reasons for it are these :
there is a constant tide sets into Hudfon’s Straits,
the flood coming from the eastward; the sea produces
scarcely any fish, nor the smallest signs of
it;, it is covered over with ice, which, in his opinion,
is generated by shoals and bays; and this
ice would have certainly been broken and dis
if there was the free ocean beyond it, for
he found this the case in palling thro the Straits
into the sea to the eastward ; and lastly he had
observed, that the ice drives out always to the east

3 ward







THE VOYAGE, &c.

ward at Hudfon’s Bay : nor does he think that it
would answer any very profitable end, if such a
passage was really found out ; for the multiplicity
of dangerous ice and shoals in those latitudes,
make it unfit for a vessel to try them with any valuable
cargo* Bedded, he says, to the southward,
a thousand leagues may be sooner made, than
an hundred here, and with less hazard; and to
the south, and about the Cape of Good Hope,
there are fine opportunities of recruiting the lick ;
whereas here, there is not the slighted: refreshment
to be had, and scarcely any thing but pain and
disorder to be acquired. Nay even, says he, if
these Straits were to be freed from ice, yet would
it prove but of little advantage, for the winds,
which in August and September are westerly and
very boisterous, would cause the vessel to be longer
on her voyage, than if die went the common
course. He concludes with observing, that from
the nature of the climate, these northern parts
can afford nothing beneficial in trade : however, he
very modestly advances these things only as his own
private opinion, and not with any view of discouraging
future adventurers from trying what maybe
done in the same course ; not doubting but the
more ingenious may be crowned with greater success
than what he met with.


The
















































The Voyages and Adventures of Mr*
John Nieuhoff, in the East-Indies 5
and several Other Parts of the World.


chap. I.

Mr. Nieuhoff ’ s birth: he embarks in the Weft-Inch a
company's service , and sails from the Texel ; meets
%vith and fights two Turkish pirates , and arrives
on the coast of Brasil: the island of Fernando appointed
for the reception of transported felons : the
situation and soil of Si * Thomas's isle : the climate
very deftru Ft me to foreigners: the town of Panacea
taken by the Dutch : Brasil its fir ft discovery , and
whence named: of its division by the Portuguese :
part of it subdued by prince Maurice: Olinda
formerly a most magnificent place: Pernambuko y
Garazuy and Receive. de Scribed: great improvements
made here by count Maurice.

M R. John Nieuhoff, born at Fen in the
earldom of Bentham, and descended from
a reputable family, engaged in the Weft-India
company's service, as supercargo, on the 24th of
October 1640, and sailed the same day out of
the Texel, in a flip called the Roebuck, of twenty
eight guns, and one hundred and thirty men:
Nothing remarkable occurred till the 6th of November,
when they were attacked by two Turkish
pirates, whom, after a very warm engagement,
they obliged to sheer off; which success was
chiefly owing to the good conduct and determined
resolution of Mr. Nieuhoff, who acted as come

4 mander




So THE VOYAGES OF

mander of the flip, the mailer being rendered
incapable of his duty by a severe indisposition.

After a voyage of seven weeks and one day,
without any other material incident than that already
mentioned, and a storm or two which they
weathered with no great damage, they made
the coals of Brasil, having in their course touched
at an island called Fernando, fifty leagues
from thence ; which island, about the year 1630,
was inhabited by the Dutch, but deserted by them
a few years after, on account of rats that swarmed
there, and plundered the earth of its produce ;
after the Dutch had forsaken this land of vermin,
the council of Brasil appointed it the receptacle of
malefactors, who on being exiled there, were furnished
with inflrmrients necessary to work a subsistence
out of the bowels of the earth.

About the latter end of August 1643, ^ r *
NieuhofF was ordered on a trading voyage to the
island of St. Thomas, for which purpose he was
furnished with a flip, and a cargo of fullers earth,
to be there exchanged for black ginger and sugar,
the principal commodities of the place.

St. Thomas is thirty six leagues in compass, of
a circular form, and very fertile in sugar and black
ginger : in the midst of this island there are mountains
constantly covered with snow, tho the adjacent
valleys, as may be expelled under the line,
are scorched with excessive heat. The air is rendered
unhealthy by vapours, so obnoxious that
scarce one foreigner in ten escapes immediate death,
and even those whose happy constitutions withstand
the first attacks of the climate in epidemical
fevers, seldom reach fifty years ; nevertheless, the
inhabitants and negroes live to a very advanced

age *

Pavaofa, the principal city of this island, is situated
on a rivulet j it contains about eight hundred

houses,


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 81

houses, and three churches. This place, together
with the whole island, was conquered by admiral
Tol, after a siege of forty days, October the 16th
1641 ; shortly after which period, he and several
commanders, with a large number of seamen, were
swept away by the pestilential air.

After a voyage of three months, Mr. NieuhofE
arrived safe at .Brasil, having fulfilled .the purpose
for which he had embarked.

As an introduction to those remarkable occurrences
which happened before Mr. NieuhofPs arrival
in Brasil, and during his residence there for
eight years, let us take a cursory view of the
country which has furnished matter for these
travels.

Brasil, so called by the Portuguese from the wood
of that name which abounds there, was originally
discovered in the year 1500 by Pedro Alvarez de
Cabral, who gave it the name of Santa Cruz:
as to its extent, geographers materially disagree;
but, according to the moil authentic calculation, it
measures from the river Para to the river Capibari,
fituatednorth and south, three hundred and seventy
five leagues ; the extent from earl to well is more
doubtful, but computed at seven hundred and
forty two leagues.

The Portuguese have divided Brasil into fourteen
districts, which they called Kapitanias or
captainfhips, each of which is watered by some
confiderable river, with other streams of Idler
note ; the river named St. Francis, claims precedence
of all others in this country in point of size;
yet, tho it is broad and deep, (hips of burthen
ire prevented from entering it by sands which
choakup its mouth. In the lake whence this river
takes its rise, there is a large quantities gold,
dud; found, supposed to be walled down by the
rivulets which glide through the caverns of

E 5 the





I


82 THE VOYAGES OF

the Peruvian mountains* It is worthy of observation,
that the river St. Francis rolls a fuller Dream at
that season of the year when rains seldom fall*
than when the clouds, according to Dryden, shake
their fleeces over the earth, which peculiarity is
mod properly attributed to the vail quantity of
snow dissolved by the vigour of the summer fun
upon the mountain tops.

Six of the captainfhips already mentioned.
Were under the government of the Dutch West
India company, before the Portuguese revolted ;
and were distinguished from the other eight by
being Ailed the northern Brasil ; those belonging
to the Portuguese were called the southern.

The Dutch captainfliips extended along the sea
coat from north to south, one hundred and sixty
or one hundred and eighty leagues ; each of them
being divided into several smaller districts, called
by the Portuguese Fregelias, and by the Dutch
Fregefien.

The captainfhip of Seregippe del Rey, likewise
called Carigi from a lake of that name, lies in the
southern part of Brasil, upon the river of St.
Francis near the sea coast, in extent thirty two
leagues, and has in it a Fregafie called Porto Calvo,
in which there is a village named Villa de Bon
Success de Porto Calvo, situated upon a riling
ground, near’four leagues from the sea shore, and
fortified with two forts built by the Dutch : the
village contains two Greets, and is supplied with
good air by the sea breezes that fan it.

This captainfhip was subjected to the Spaniards
or Portuguese, by Chrifiovan Barros, who was
rewarded for his service with a confiderable trash
of land, and a power to settle colonies on it ;
many persons repaired thither from the Bay of All
Saints, and shortly built a small town, which was
on the 24th of December 1637, laid was by the
/ Dutch,


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 83

Dutch, who were provoked thereto by the incursions
made on their territories by Benjola the
Spanifh general: in the year 1641, count Maurice
reduced this place to the jurisdiction of the West
India company, erected a sort, and encompassed
the town Sergippe del Rey with a ditch.

Parnambuko, one of the largest Dutch captain*
ships, which derives its name from the hidden
rocks and shelves that lurk in the entrance of the
harbour, stretches above sixty leagues along the
sea coast, and is Subdivided into eleven smaller districts,
among which those called Olinda and
Garazu are the principal.

At a small distance from the Receif or Maurice
town, on the north side lie the remains of that
once celebrated city Olinda, from whence formerly
the whole trade from Brasil to Europe was:
carried on.

This city, which flood upon divers hills of easy
ascent towards the sea, but steep and craggy towards
the land, contained two thousand inhabitants,
besides the clergymen and Haves • on the
land side it was defended by several bastions,
which, from the unevenness of the ground they
flood upon, were not strictly uniform ; however*,
their situation gave them additional force. Here
flood a convent of elegant structure, founded by
Sebastian. king of Portugal, who alio endowed it
with very confiderable revenues ; there were also
two other convents, one for the Capuchins, another
for the Dominicans, and two churches, one
named St. Salvador, the other St. Peter.

The whole district of Pernambuko is well
Hocked with various kinds of fruit and cattle ; the
vallies afford excellent pasturage, and the mountains
teem with richer minerals than are to be
found in any other of the captainfhips,

E 6 > Garazu,






84 THE VOYAGES OF

Garazu, properly Ailed a village, lies about five
leagues from Oiinda, upon the flare opposite to the
Isle of Tamarika, and upon a never of the same
name ; it was formerly inhabited by Portuguese
mechanics, but being subjected to the Dutch in
1633, several rich families of that people fettled
there.

The Receif from the latin word recipes, to receive,
in point of situation is the strongest place in
Brasil, besides that it has the advantage of fever
rat contiguous forts; but to give as clear an idea
as possible both of this place and Maurice’s’s town,
it will be necessary to observe, that the whole coast
of Brasil is bordered by a thick and flat ridge of
rocks, which in feme places is twenty, and in
others thirty paces broad; however, there are
passages thro which the ships approach the shore,
one of these passages is about a quarter of a mile
to the north of Receif. Between the rocky ridge
and the shore, there is a small island of a league
In length, and two hundred paces in breadth,
which the Dutch call the sandy Receif, to distinguish
it from the other named the stony Receif.
On the southern point of this little island, the Port
tuguefe built a village; hither, after Oiinda was
forsaken by its inhabitants, many of them, especially
merchants, came and fettled. On the arrival
of the Dutch, no more than two hundred houses
were found here ; however, the number was soon
increased to two thousand, for the defence of
which three bulwarks were raised. On the extreme
point of the stony Receif, to the left as we
enter the harbour, there is a large strong castle
well supplied with artillery, which from the complicated
strength of art and nature is deemed impregnable.


To the south of the Receif, and opposite to it,
lies the isle of Anthony Vaez, a title derived from

its


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 85

its original poflfeflbr, which in circumference measures
about half a league on the eaR side. Count
Maurice laid the foundation of a city, which he
honoured with his own name; and the decayed
churches and monasteries of deserted Olinda furnished
materials for building on this more favourite
spot: on the west side tis environed with
a morass, on the eaR bounded by the sea, and to
the north and south secured by bulwarks.

Maurice’s’s town was defended by two sorts, called
Frederic Henry, and fort Ernest.

The isle of Anthony Vales being joined to the
continent by a bridge, it was also thought necessary
to conned! the Receif to the said island by
another bridge, to facilitate the carriage of sugar
chests, which could not be transported but with
extreme hazard, except at low water. The necessity
of such a bridge being admitted, the great
council and governor count Maurice, at a very
confiderable expence, effected the work in about
two months, and imposed a toll on all passengers
to reimburse the public funds.

The river Kapivaribi, so called from a kind
of sea hogs often found in it, skirts Maurice’s’s
Town; upon a branch of this river, which runs
into one called AfFogadoes, Rand two sorts, named
Fort William and Fort Baretta. In the middle of
the island count Maurice erected for himself a
moR magnificent palace, that coR him, as is reported,
six hundred thousand florins, adjacent to
which he laid out elegant gardens, well Rocked
with curious exotic and native plants, as well as
trees from all parts of the world; also with fishponds,
wherein were all kinds of fresh water fish.
Besides this, count Maurice had another seat, chiefly
appropriated to the summer season, at the foot of
the bridge over the river Kapiviribi, which the Portuguese
called Baa-villa, i. e. Fair Prospect. Upon

the


$6 THE VOYAGES OF

the sandy Receif Rand two other sorts, one the
Sand, another Bncin Fort; and a third, called War-edinburgh,
Rands between the continent and Sandy
Receif.

In the diRridt of Parnambuko are two woods,
called by the Portuguese the Great and Lever
Palmairas or Palm-tree woods. The Lever Pal-mair
is inhabited by near six thousand negroes,
who dwell in a village composed of three streets,
each half a league in length ; they live in huts
made of straw twisted together, and plunder the
Portuguese of their Raves; and Rich as they Real
from the Portuguese muR remain in Bravery till
they purchase liberty by healing each of them another
Rave ; but such as voluntarily quit the Portus
guess are rewarded with immediate freedom, and
the common privileges of that people. Dates,,
beans, meal, barley, sugar canes, tame fowl,
(which are very plenty) and fiji compose their
general furnace : they have two harpers in a
year, after each of which they have a weeks rejoicing.


In the greater Palmyra, the main body of inhabitants
number eight thousand ; besides which,,
there are several smaller parties of one hundred or
fifty each, scattered up and down: their habitations
lie Raging ; they sow and reap in the woods,,
and retire to caves, in case of necessity. Among
these people it is coronary to count their numbers
every night; after which muRex, if none are wanting,
they conclude the evening with dancing and
beat of drum : these also send firing parties to
Real or force Raves from the, Portuguese. During
the government of count Maurice, these people
were very troublesome, till he sent a body of
eleven hundred men to suppress them.

The captain strip of Parnambuko contains several
other subdivisions, which having nothing worthy



MR. JOHN N IE U HOFF. 87

thy of particular observation, for the sake of brevity
are here omitted.

C H A P. IL

Tamarika described ; also the if and of Magioppe ,
and city of Porayba : the Portuguese beaten out of
the last mentioned place by the Dutch under prince
Maurice.

T O the north of Parnambuko lies the diflridf
of Tamarika, so called from an island of that
name which composes the chief part of this district,
tho it extends thirty-five leagues along the sea
chaff upon the continent.

The island of Tamarika lies in the sea, two
leagues north of Pornorello ; it is eight leagues in
length, and near seven in circumference, tolerably
fertile, and productive of cocoa-nuts, cotton, sugar,
reeds, melons, brasil wood, and large quantities
of timber for shipping ; it was looked upon
by the Dutch as of great consequence, and was
proposed as a place of trade to the Receif:
which proposition was rejected for several substantial
reasons, such as its being less convenient
than the Receif in many respects, and having no
advantage over it but in regard of fresh water,
wherewith this island abounds : nevertheless, in
the war with the Portuguese, it proved of signal
service ; for being easily strong, it afforded shelter
on any pressing emergency, and also contributed
greatly to support the Receif with provisions.

There were some pieces of fortification at the
mouth of the harbour, such as a quadrangular
fort called Orange, and a hornbook ; the latter
much decayed.

In the island there was a small town near a morass
and the entrance of the river. The town which

was


88 THE VOYAGES OF

was mostly inhabited by soldiers, with the whole
Island, was taken from the Portuguese by general
Schoppe, who' commanded the Dutch, and called
from him Schoppe’s-town. Somewhat higher
tip the river Tamarika lies an island called Magiop-
pe, where is found abundance of mandihoka roots.

Between Pomorello and Tamarika rolls a river
from the continent called Marafarinha; and half
a league within the river Tamarika falls another
called GarrafTore: besides these, there are in the
diaries we now view, three others distinguished by
the names of Goyana, Auyay, and Grahame. Three
leagues within the river Goyana, Bands a town
of the same name, where the judicial court of this
captainfhip is held ; to which place it was transferred
from the island Tamarika.

The captainfhip of Parayba borrows its name
from its capital city, or more properly from a river
so called on which the city Bands. This is
deemed one of the moB northerly fibrils, lying
about five leagues defiant from the sea: it formerly
belonged to the French, who were dispossessed
of it, and many other harbours, by Martin
Layton a Portuguese general.

Five leagues up the river Parayba Bands the
city of that name, which was founded by the
Portuguese, and named after the king of Spain,
Filippo, and Nafla Senhora de Vives, or Parayba,
which laB and moB general name the Dutch, after
their conquer of this captainfhip in 1633,
changed to that of Frederick-town, in compliment
to the prince of Orange. In this place the court
of judicature for this district was kept before the
rebellion of the Portuguese.

The captainfhip of Parayba is divided, and
watered by two large rivers, the Parayba and
Mongopoa, or St.' Domingo. Parayba lies under
the sixth degree twenty-four minutes, four leagues

to



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 89

to the north of Cato Blanc, and discharges itself
by two branches into the sea. Itt the winter this
river frequently overflows the adjacent country, at
such times often destroying men and cattle : in the
mouth of this river are three confiderable forts,
named Catalina, St. Antonio, and Retina. Two
leagues farther to the north there is a large and
commodious bay, where ships of burthen may be
safely Rationed, which the Portuguese call Porto Li-cent,
and the Dutch the Red Land, from the colour
of the soil hereabouts. Half a league farther north
is the river Mongopoa, which has the peculiarity of
being wider at the source than the mouth, before
which latter there are two find banks ; and at
Receif, two leagues more north, there is another
bay called by the Portuguese Bahama de Treycano,
or Treason : several more there are, which being
immaterial we iliall not particularise.

There are seven villages in Parayba; the principal
of which is called Pinta Una, wherein were,
in the year 1634, fifteen hundred inhabitants, no
other village containing above three hundred ; the
buildings are very long, with many small doors.

The principal commodities of Parayba are sugar,
brasil wood, tobacco, hides, cotton, &c.
Near the river side a low plain country presents
itself to view; however, the sight is relieved by
gradual and agreeable risings, which appear at a
moderate distance, and serve to vary the prospect

About the latter end of November, 1634, the
Dutch projected the conquest of Parayba ; and
colonel Schoppe being furnished with thirty-two
ships and two thousand three hundred fifty-four
men, the expedition was undertaken. Colonel
Schoppe landing with six hundred men, put the
Portuguese to flight, and was very near making
their leader Anthony Albuquerque prisoner : having
raised a battery, and being joined by the remainder



90 THE VOYAGES OF

painter of bis small army, he obliged Simon Albuquerque
to surrender the sort of St. Margaret :
fort Antonio was soon after given up ; upon
which the Dutch immediately marched for Prays
and made themselves matters of it without
any opposition, the Spanitti commander Angola
retreating with two hundred and fifty men, his
whole force, after he had nailed up the cannon,
and set fire to the ships and warehouses. Upon
this conquest of Parayba, count Maurice ordered
the several sorts to be put in a more defensible
condition.

The captainttiip of Porcigi, called by the Portuguese
Rio Grande from a river of that name,
and by the Dutch North Brattl, borders to the
south upon Parayba, and to the north upon
Sara.

In the year 1597 the French were matters of
this captainttiip, but were discontented by Felicia
Caeca de Tharvalattio; it is marked'out into
four divisions, called after four rivers which run
thro them, viz., Kunhao,. Goyano, Mumpobu, and
Potegy.

The river Rio Grande, called by the Brazilians
Potegy, lies at the mouth in five degrees and for
ty-two minutes southern latitude ; it empties itself
four leagues above the fort Theulen, and is navigable
to ships of considerable burthen : there are
several bays, and some other rivers of less note in
this captainttiip.

Fort Theulen and the whole captainttiip was
conquered by the Dutch in the year 1633, under
the command of Matthias van Theulen, assisted by
several approved captains; among whom were
Lichthart Byma and others.,


€ H A P.


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 91

,* *■ /

CHAP. m.

Of the captainjhips of Potigi and Star a : people with
very long ears: the commodities in which they dealt,
this country in the hands cf the Portuguese i who
are dispossessed hy the Dutch, at the desire and invitation
of the natives , who prove treacherous to their
deliverers: a new settlement made at Rio Grande
with indifferent success: a short char after of Brasil
considered in a commercial light: fevers common
here ; their cause: setting of the tides: of theeccle-
fafticalgovernment and different religions cf Brasil i
disputes between the Dutch and Portuguese : outrages
committed by Paulo de Runha: a peace between
the Dutch and Portuguese at Brasil for ten
years agreed upon.

T HE captainfhip of Potigi, Doting, or ,
was fubjeff to frequent incursions
of the Tapoyers or mountaineers, who were at
constant enmity with the Portuguese. In July 164 c,
these Tapoyers, having notice that the Portuguese
intended to revolt from the Dutch, marched against
them, under one Jacob Rabbi, and did considerable
mischief.

Siara is one of the most northerly captainfhips,
situated upon a river of the same name, and bordering
to the north upon Maranhaon: the extent of
this diflridf is not above ten or twelve leagues : the
river Siara empties itself about seven leagues and a
half to the north of the bay Mangorypa, under
three degrees and forty minutes southern latitude.

The inhabitants of this captainfhip are of large
feature; their features are disagreeable, and their
ears so large, that they hang down on their shoulders.




92 THE VOYAGES OF

ders. The produce of the country is sugar, reeds,
crystal, cotton, See.

In the year 1630, part of this country was governed
by one of their native kings, called Algo-
coi, who was in some sort tributary to the Portuguese,
they having built a sort on the river Siara,
and possessed themselves of all the seacoasts thereabout
; nevertheless they were perplexed with intestine
broils until the year 1638.

Count Maurice and his council being sollicited
by the inhabitants to deliver them from the oppression
of the Portuguese, and having received two
youths of their bell families as hodges for their
faith and alliance, sent a body of troops under the
command of colonel John Garfhnan, a resolute
and experienced leader, to accomplish the deSign.

The colonel being furnished with men, arms,
ammunition, and all other necessaries for such an
expedition, set sail for the river Siara, where he
was met by Algodoi, and joined by two hundred
of the inhabitants ; with these he proceeded immediately
against the fort already mentioned, which,
after a brave refinance from the Portuguese, he took
by form, making mod; of the garrison prisoners,
among whom were some persons of note.

After this success, the Dutch built a small fort upon
the river, and called it Siara, not so much for defence
of the country, as for cultivating an intimacy with
the natives ; for which end the great council ordered
the commanding officers to treat them with all
possible respect and friendship ; and to this civil
treatment were added several small presents, which
nevertheless proved ineffectually in the year
1644 they killed several of the Dutch, at a place
called Komefy, thirty leagues from Siara.

In the year 1641, Siara being too populous, and
the district of Rio Grande a!mod: void of inhabitants,
Andrew Bliss proposed to the great council



MR. JOHN N 1 EUH 0 FF. 93

ell, building a village in Rio Grande, for such of
the Syrians as chose to settle there, which proportion
was accepted of by count Maurice and the
great council, who gave Bliss leave to draw as
many from Siara as he could; at the same time
making him chief captain of the new settlement: this
scheme being thus executed, they chose certain chiefs
out of the most antient families of each division,
called by the Portuguese Refidoor; notwithstanding
which the Brazilians of Siara in the year 1644
revolted against the Dutch, as has been already
observed, and massacred the garrison of the fort,
with the commander in chief Gideon Mores, and
a great number of workmen belonging to the fait
pits, near the river Upahamma: they also murdered
the master of a flip, a lieutenant, and some soldiers,
who, ignorant of their treacherous revolt,
went on shore, and falling into their hands, became
a prey to their matchless barbarity.

Some have imputed this revolt to the Portuguese,
and the Brazilians of Maranhaon; but the true
source of the evil, was the extortion and oppression
of the Dutch officers, who by ill usage roused
a vindictive rage that quenched itself in blood.

Having first pointed out the happy situation,
with the many other advantages of Dutch Brasil,
and described the ecclesiastical Prate thereof, we
shall proceed to recapitulate the remarkable occurrences
which filled up the space of time that Mr.
NieuhofFrefided there.

Brasil is remarkably fertile in every natural production
that can flourish in such a climate, and
claims the precedence of all other places in the
Weft-Indies, for conveniency of harbours to trans
the whole coast being full of small rivers,
which conduce greatly to the carriage of sugars
at a light expence : to this we may add the convenience
of sending thence that commodity to Europe




94 THE VOYAGES OF

rope and Africa, with more ease than from any
other part of the Weft-Indies; and that Brasil is
happily situated for Eat-India ships to call at, and
take in fresh provisions ; in short, its great extent
and vat commercial advantages, were it diffidently
peopled, muff soon render it a flourishing empire,
great in itself, and terrible to neighbouring
nations.

Being situated between the equinoctial line and
the tropic of Capricorn, this country is subject to
violent heat, which however is so well tempered
by easterly winds off the sea, that the climate is
deemed very wholesome ; putrid fevers sometimes
prevail, and are attributed to the complicated heat
and moisture of air, also to the excessive use of raw
fruit.

There is a peculiarity in the winds and tides on
the chaff of Brasil, which those who are bound
thither ought carefully to observe: from February
to Augur the stream runs northerly, during
which time there is no possibility of sailing from
north to south : from the beginning of September
to the end of November the stream reverses its
course; consequently there is no sailing from south
to north : the wind always blows with the stream.

The'ecclefiadical date of Dutch Brasil was chiefly
composed of protestantism ; however, the French
that were there had liberty of conscience to exercise
their own religion ; the English likewise had
a minister of their own : the Dutch were regulated
bv the prescriptions of the Dort synod. Great care
was taken to catechise youth; the sacrament was
administered four times a-year ; as a preparation for
which, those who intended to be partakers were
obliged to make a confection before the church-council,
or the ministers, who booked their names ;
if dangers, their names were publicly read to the
congregation. The church-council was composed of

fix


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 9S

fix church-wardens and the minister, these fettled
the general run of ecclesiastical matters * but in any
affair of particular consequence, the deacons, fix
in number, were called in as assistant counsellors:
to the care of those deacons, two of whom were
chosen monthly, the sick and orphans were given,
the latter being by them taught to read and write;
and all other ordinations were exactly fulfilled, and
the church-discipline in every respect strictly adhered
to.

In the year 1640, Mr. Henry Hamel, one of the
WeA-India directors for the chamber of Amsterdam,
and Mr. DirckKodde Vander Burgh were, by de
fire of the council of nineteen, deputed to succeed
Matthias Van Keulen, and John Hireling as directors
of Dutch Brasil, then under the government
of John Maurice count Nassau.

At the time these two directors or counsellors arrived
here, Dutch Brasil included the captainfhips
of Pernambuko, Hamarika, to which Goyana was
annexed, Parayba, Rio Grande and Siara being the
northern part of Brasil; the Portuguese having possession
of the following diaries which compose the
southern, Bahia He's, Porto Secure, Spirit Santo,
Rio Janeiro,'and St. Vincent. The island osman
was some time after in possession of the
Dutch; but in a few years they were obliged to
abandon it, by a combination of the natives and
Portuguese. *

Before the arrival of Messrs* Hamel and Vander
Burgh, a fleet was sent to invade Bahia, which
expedition being attended with success, so far as
the design of depredation, the same squadron, under
the command of admiral Sol and Cornelius
Lichthart, was dispatched to intercept the Spanifh
plate fleet, but returned without success in December
1640, having loA four or five ships. About the
same time, colonel Koin was ordered with a body

of


96 THE VOYAGES OF

of land forces to attack the captainfhip of Rio
Real, but being very ill supplied with necessaries,
and much harassed with fatigue, this expedition
was also fruitless ; and major Van Brande, who was
sent out with a party to provide some cattle, was
yet more unfortunate, his party being entirely defeated,
and himself made prisoner.

While the Dutch squadron already mentioned
was on the watch for the Spanifh plate fleet, the
directors of Dutch Brafll, conscious of their weakness
at sea, were very justly apprehensive of their
vindictive neighbours the Portuguese, who might
seize this favourable opportunity for destroying their
sugar-mills; wherefore they took all precautionary
methods to avert the impending mischief ; and being
sensible that the good-will of those Portuguese
who lived in Dutch Brafll, must be very essential
to the wished for security, they thought it advisable
to call an assembly of the principal Portuguese
inhabitants, belonging to the three captainships,
Pernambuko, Hamarika, and Parayba, that they
might concert proper measures for the security of
their possessions

The means proposed by this assembly were to
put their forts in good order, and augment their
garrisons; as also, to place a number of men in the
fields adjacent to the sugar-mills : these fiefs however
failed of the intended advantage; for several
incursions were made by the Portuguese, to the
prejudice of the Dutch, particularly one by a
party of soldiers, which the marquis Montes
the viceroy sent to burn the sugar-reeds. In
short, the charge of maintaining thirty or 'forty
soldiers, for the defence of ' each sugar-mill, and
the damage sustained by frequent depredation
greatly impaired the revenues of the Dutch company,
nor were they able to bring a body of men
into the field, so many being scattered about in the

manner




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 97

manner we have already mentioned: such was the
sickly Rate of Dutch Brasil towards the end of the
year 1640.

On the 22d of December, in this same year, arrived
Mr. Adrian Van Bullaeflrete as director of
Brasil, who completing the great council, it was
resolved to send the Dutch fleet to Bahia by way
of reprisal on the Portuguese, and to facilitate a
negotiation for a peace then on the carpet. The
council of nineteen also gave orders that some large
drips should cruise off Rio Janeiro to intercept the
Spanifh flora, which generally sets 'out from thence
for Spain in May or June : during the time of this
negotiation, a certain Portuguese, named Paulo de
Kunha, committed the mod: unpardonable outrages
in murder and all sorts of devastations, which occasioned
count Maurice to write a letter of complaint
to the viceroy, in which he also complained
of delays in the negotiation, that seemed calculated
rather to arrive the Dutch than adjust the differences
then subsisting between them and the Portus
guess ; wherefore he infilled on a categorical answer.
Shortly after this remonstrance, by the remarkable
assiduity of Vander Burgh, who had the management
of the treaty, it was happily completed in February,
1641 ; and in consequence thereof, all a 61 s of hostility
immediately ceased. The treaty was published
by proclamation in each captainlhip, and all the
Portuguese ordered to quit the Dutch territories.
O11 the conclusion of this truce, which was for
ten years, the Dutch, by a friendly intercourse with
the Portuguese, plainly proved that they were re
foiled to keep their faith inviolable.


Vol. IV.


F


Chap





S THE VOYAGES OF

( \ f • : t .

CHAP. IV,

Trade begins to flourish at Brasil under the protection
of the Dutch : the influence of peace , but soon declines
on failure of the company's magazines : great
variations in credit: planters the country damaged
by an epidemical diaper among the negroes ,
and other misfortunes not to be avoided : increased
by malcontents ; and great disorders ensue in the
company's affairs : a corf piracy carried on by the
Portuguese again the government of Brass: the cc -
cafbn and grounds of it : an embassy arrives from
Angola ; sent to count Maurice , and the Dutch
Eajl- India company .

npHE council very wisely judging that peace
JL is the nourishment of trade, resolved to
employ this happy interval in the cultivation of it,
thereby to promote the public good, and that of
the company in particular. For this great and de-fir
able end they gave all possible encouragement
to husbandry, which had so good an effeT, that
the sugar-mills were speedily rebuilt, and the labourers
wrought with such assiduous emulation at

o

the crops, that large sums were borrowed on the
glorious prospect of gain which industry gave to
view.

The next care was to establish wholesome laws
.as the source of national health ; without which,
a body politic, like a natural body filled with corrupted
blood, muff inevitably fall speedily to decay.
In these laws particular attention was paid to the
promotion of commerce, and the enlargement of
the public revenues.

In conference of these proceedings, trade began
to flourish, commodities were sold in greater

quantities



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 99

quantities some time after the truce than ever was
known before; large sums were dealt for in a final!
space of time, and credit so remarkably good, that
merchants and factors frequently chose to sell their
goods to such as paid only part of the stipulated
price, preferably to those who would pay the
whole.

In the years 1640 and 1641, the revenues of the
company were upon so respectable a footing, that
they bought up large quantities of sugar on the
public account, which they sent to Holland ; several
handsome structures began to rise; the inhabitants
lived in great plenty and magnificence; all
debts were looked upon as secure, and every thing
seemed to indicate a flourishing Rate.

This pleasing prospect began to be clouded over
in the year 1643, ane ^ things wore a quite different
appearance; for some expeditions against Angola
having exhausted the magazines of the company,
and no supplies arriving from Holland as was usual,
the great council was obliged to pay their officers
and gai prisons with what was due to the company,
as also to force their debtors to prompt payment.

Besides the misfortune of exhausting their magazines
as already mentioned, the merchants in
Holland began to call on their factors for large returns
of money, which occasioned those factors to
press their debtors for the sums due, that they might
satisfy the demands of their mailers in Holland ; a
circumstance which occasioned a great scarcity of ready
money, and consequently damaged trade considerably.
This scarcity in a short time grew so general,
that many proprietors of sugar-mills were, for want
of ready money to pay their debts, obliged to borrow
at the rate of three and four percent, a month,
which reduced many of them to such extremity,
that in a short time they could neither pay principal
nor interest.

F 2


What









THE VOYAGES OF

What seemed to give the first rise touch confusion
in trade and public credit, was the practice of the
Portuguese, who buying up large quantities of goods,
in hopes that a revolution would pay all their debts,
contracted such enormous ones, that the Dutch
faCtors, who indiscreetly gave large credit, chained
vast Losses, till their employers in Holland began
to be very importunate, which occasioned them
to press hard those country traders, thro whose
hands the Portuguese had received the goods. But
as the Portuguese had nothing to pay, the country
merchants fell to ruin, the faCtors sought their money
in vain, and the merchants in Holland received
a very severe shock in trade : these circumstances,
terrible to the public in general, were nevertheless
happy for the lawyers, as the whole country was a
scene of litigation ; several were caff into prison,
but being maintained at the expence of their creditors,
the creditors themselves sollicited their freedom,
and made the best composition they could.

To the inconveniencies already recited, we may
add another material one, the mortality of the
negroes and Brazilians, by an epidemical distemper
incident to the natives, called bexigos, which is
somewhat similar to our European small-pox. As
the negroes in general were purchased at the rate of
three hundred pieces of eight, upon an average, the
loss of them consequently occasioned the ruin of
the planters, who were at the same time severely
prejudiced by vermin and inundations, which considerably
damaged the fugar-fieids. Such a concurrence
of misfortunes in trade occasioned intestine
broils among the inhabitants ; the most clandestine
methods were made use. of to evade and recover
debts. These divisions, fatal ill themselves,
were hill rendered worse by the fomentation of
feme malcontents, animals that always fish in
the troubled Bream of perplexity for advantage,

and






MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. hoi

and prey upon the vitals of a community to satisfy
their malice or avarice : such cankers are in all
governments ; and here they discovered themselves,
by taking pains to persuade those who had lost
their debts, that the regency and courts of justice
were culpable; suggesting yet farther, that the publie
funds should repair private Losses.

Upon this occasion, the debts of the company
increased every day : for the directors, who before
the year 1640 had the management of affairs
in Brasil, sold most of the confiscated estates, ,
merchandizes, and negroes belonging to
the company upon credit; so that they flood possessed
of extensive debts, but no cash : the succeeding
members of the council, Messrs. Hamel, Bullies
and Van Burgh took all imaginable pains
to correct this erroneous management, and sold
their commodities for ready money, or exchanged
them for sugars, so to ease the company in point of
their expensive expeditions ; in consequence of which
the years 1640, 41 , and 42 furnished Holland with
much larger quantities than ever were known before.
Notwithflanding-which remittances, the vas
number of negroes furnished after the conquest
of Angola, ran the company still farther in debt,
as their debtors made very dilatory payments ; upon
which the council of nineteen gave express orders
that the negroes should be sold only for ready
money, or exchanged for sugar, which determination
they were obliged to alter, as they found
it pregnant with the entire ruin of the negro trade ;
for the inhabitants were obliged to deal upon credit
for their slaves, till they could reap the advantage
of their labour.

The members of the council, to be as secure as
possible, resolved to call upon their debtors exactly
at the time of the fugar-harvefiy and, upon def

3 fault


102 THE VOYAGES OF

fault of payment, ordered proper officers to force
by seizure.

This method of proceeding occasioned such a
multitude of law suits, and such general perplexity,
that the great council very justly feared an insurrection;
upon which they turned their thoughts
towards a palliation of matters, and at lass a proposition
for adjusting debts was made, viz. that
the company should undertake to settle the debts
of private persons, to which end the proprietors of
sugar-mills were to surrender the whole yearly product
of their mills to the company, till they had
paid off their several debts; and that the benefit of
these proceedings might extend to the company and
their sugar-mills, as well as to the merchants and
sailors, it was resolved that certain articles should
be agreed upon for that purpose, the company proposing
no other advantage to themselves from this
scheme, than that of having an opportunity of recovering
some debts which were supposed to be lost.

The company being veiled with the power
consequent to this accommodation, gave public
notice of their agreements with particular per
fons, in order that inch persons should not receive
any thing upon credit, without the approbation
of the great council, and their creditors were fuea¬
rn one d to prove their debts in three weeks time,
on pain of being excluded the benefit of the contra!.


As the the most prudent measures will, by some
wrong-headed or evil-minded persons be cavilled
at, so this foie method of healing the wounds of
public creditors by some people condemned, and
pointed out as a cause of the Portuguese revolt : nevertheless,
so good an effect had these proceedings,
that industry began again to raise its head, and promise
a flourishing fate, free from the encumbrance
of debts; and the year 1645 promised so plentiful

a harm.


JOHN N I E U H O F F. 103

a harvest of sugar, as had not been seen for many
years before.

The Portuguese, partly from a natural hatred
they had to the Dutch, such a one as the conquered
always entertain against their conquerors, and
partly with a view of clearing away the immense
debts they had contracted, which debts, in some
measure made them desperate, resolved not to rest
till they had undermined the government; for
which purpose they determined upon a revolt, and
were so confident as to declare, that if they did not
receive the sought for assistance from Bahia, they
would sollicit succours from Spain or Turkey.

About the end of the year 164.2, they were disarmed
on the rumour of an intended revolt; nevertheless
their arms were restored some time after,
and they remained tolerably quiet, from fear, as is
supposed, of the Dutch garrison.

The true origin of their revolt may be traced
out in the following manner.

On the 13th of December, 1642, one John Fer
nantes Vieira appeared in the council-room, where
he said, a certain Jew informed him, that he
and his father-in-law Berengel, were charged with
having dispatched letters of an evil tendency to
the state, by Berengel’s son, to the king of Portugal.
Upon this occasion he confessed having fens
a letter by the person mentioned, to the king, but
asserted that the letter contained no more than a recommendation
of the bearer to some employment
at the court of Lisbon ; and this assertion he justified
by the copy of the letter, which being examined,
Was found to contain no more than he mentioned.
Vieira then proposed disarming the Portus
guess, particularly the captains de Campo, withall
under their jurisdiction, the Brazilians, negroes,
Mulattoes, and Mameluke.

F 4


Count




104 THE VOYAGES OF

Count Maurice produced a letter from the council
of nineteen, informing him, that John Van
North, who had served fourteen months in Brasil
as a cadet, declared to them at Amsterdam, that he
had been servant in a sugar-mill belonging to Fer
nantes Vieira; that after passing two months in
that capacity, he was solicited by Francisco Beren-
gel Labrador, to accompany his son Antonio Dan-draco
Berengel, as his interpreter to Holland, and
thence to Portugal; that being allured by large
promises, he attended young Berengel, who, after
three weeks intimacy, told him he had a letter
signed by Vieira, Francisco Berengel, Bernardine
Karvalho, John Biferro, and Lewis Bras Biferro,
in which they signified to the king of Portugal,
that they were provided with sufficient means to
reduce Brasil under his obedience : the council
added, that on account of this massage, the king
of Portugal had made young Berengel a captain ;
wherefore they ordered a strict watch to be kept
over the persons mentioned.

The great council having met on the 16th of
February, 1643, count Maurice informed them,
he had assurances that some of the principal Portuguese
intended to surprise and cut off the Dutch
garrisons in the country of Moribeka and St. Anthony,
as well as in some other places; and that
this design was to be put in execution upon one of
their saints days, the better to screen their intention,
it being usual with them to assemble in great
numbers upon such festivals : the chief managers
of this affair lived in the Target, and they proposed
surprising the Receif; likewise concluding
that the garrisons in the country muff quickly yield
to the possessors of that, and consequently that
the company being stripped both of trade and soldiers,
could not longer subsist in Brasil.

This fit nation bf affairs having undergone mature



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 105

tore deliberation, a resolution was taken to avoid
alarming the country by a public apprehension of
suspected persons ; therefore precautionary Reps
only were taken, such as putting Rro-ng places into
a better Rate of defence, and keeping a continual
watch on supposed secret enemies. Several
letters, some anonymous, were sent to count Maurice,
confirming the traiterous intentions of the
Portuguese, particularly one from Mr. Van Els, dated
at Serinhaim, importing, he was credibly informed
that a certain Mulatto, of the company of
Augustine Hardofo, being asked by some of the
people of Fregafie, what business they had thereabouts,
replied, they had been to give letters to
certain persons living near the Receif; adding, that
they would speedily lee that place taken without
any effusion of either Dutch or Portuguese blood.

In December, 1643, Don Michael de Krafio,
Don Sebastian Mantua de Sonho, and Don Antonio
Ferdinand, three ambassadors from count
Sonho in Angola, arrived in the Receif, with whom
came several negroes as presents to count Maurice
and the company: by whom being admitted to an audience,
they Signified that their massage was to request
that the government of Brasil would not send
any succours to the king of Congo, who, they believed,
intended to attack them : in answer to which, they
were told, that the council would write to Mr. Wieland
their director there, to endeavour at removing
all cause of conteR between the king of Congo
and their master. The council also wrote a letter
to the king and count Sonho, recommending peace
to them.

The ambassadors were extremely well treated
during their Ray, and shewed themselves great pro
ancients in Latin and back-sword playing ; in which
latter exercise they displayed many poured remarkably
tenable, and distorted their faces yet
more horribly.

F 5


On




xo6 THE VOYAGES OF

On the departure of the ambassadors, they were
furnished with some confiderable presents for the
'king of Congo, and others of equal value for the
count Sonho.


CHAP. V.

Sone designs carried an by the Portuguese underhand
against Dutch Brasil: the council veiled in the government,
which count Maurice for that purpose resigns:
he sets Jail for Holland: an embassy fentfrom
Brasil to the Bahia sands; the Jiate of the Port
tuguefe in the Bahia sands: the Dutch Brasil in
danger from new machinations: a very material letter
of advice and intelligence brought to the great
council: measures taken to prevent a revolt and prefer
ve the peace .

O October the 13th, 1644, fresh suspicion of
a revolt was raised by Gaspar Francisco de
Kunha a Jew, and two others of the same tribe,
who signified to the great council, that they had
been informed by some Jews who kept a correspondence
in the country, that the Portuguese were
plotting against Dutch Brasil. The council having
returned these elders thanks for their friendly information,
proceeded to discover the schemes of the
Portuguese; and having received well-grounded intelligence,
that they expected some arms and ammunition
by sea, the yacht called Nieuhoufe, with
a galliot and a shallop, was ordered to cruise along
the coafrof Dutch Brasil, and observe what vessels
approached the shore.

On the 22d of April, the commission from the
governors of the West India company was read in
the great council, by virtue of which the members
of the council were to have the administration of

the


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 107

the government till farther instructions : in order
to inveA them publicly with this authority, count
Maurice appointed a general assembly of all the principal
persons, ecclesiastical, civil, and military, also
the chiefs of the Jews, who all met on the 6th of
May accordingly, when count Maurice resigned the
government which he had held for eight years, paid
them some compliments on their adherence to the
high and mighty Rates, as also their kind treatment
of him as their governor; adding, that he had
drawn up a memorial which might be of some
service in governing : for all which the members
of the council returned him moR unfeigned thanks.
Before the council broke up, it was debated who
should be president of it; at laR it was determined
every thing should remain as was usual, under the
government of count Maurice, viz. every,perfon to
keep his proper rank, sir Mr. Hamel, next Mr.
BullaeRrete, then Mr. Vander Burgh, &c. Things
being thus regulated, count Maurice left the Receif
on the nth of May, 1644, being attended by
vaR numbers of people, to whom he gave the greater
demonstrations of affection. On the 22d he set
sail for Holland, with a fleet of thirteen ships and
a large body of soldiers, leaving only eighteen companies
for the protection of Dutch Brasil.

On the departure of count Maurice, the grand
council proceeded to inspect more narrowly the designs
of the Portuguese again A the government; to
which efleCf, it was resolved in January, 164 4, to
send Gilbert de Wit counsellor of the court of justice,
and captain Dirk HoogArat<p, then commander
in chief of the Cape of St. Turin to Antonio
Telles de Sylva, governor of Bahia, with instructions
to the following purpose : sir, having delivered
their credentials, to compliment the governor
in the name of the great council, with a compromise
of the moA inviolable friendship, then to

F 6 - acquaint





hob THE VOYAGES OF

acquaint him that many subjects of Dutch Brasil,
after having contracted confiderable debts, both
with the company and other inhabitants, did retire
into the Bahia, and to desire that for the support
of public justice, he would either detain those
bankrupts in prison, or give timely notice of their
arrival, to the Dutch government, that the injured
subjects might have an opportunity of prosecuting
them accordingly. With this specious pretence were
the aforementioned persons sent in embassy; but
the real design of their journey was to find out the
Portuguese force by land and sea, to discover the
date of their negro trade, whether they had any
commerce with the people of Buenos Ayres, and
chiefly to learn who cherished the design of the
Portuguese against the Dutch; likewise to desire
that the governor would not fuller such of the
Dutch soldiers as deserted from the Receif to be
transported to Portugal, but order them back to
the Receif.

On the 8 th of February these envoys arrived safely
in the Bahia, having caA anchor near the city of
St. Salvador, where they were met by two officers
deputed by the governor to receive them, major
Domingo Delgados, and captain David Ventura ;
by these two officers they were conduced in confiderable
Late to the governor, whom they found
in a large assembly of the principal officers. On
being admitted to an audience, the envoys, in a
long and elaborate harangue, set forth the Arica
regard of their masters for the Portuguese, and the
desire they had to support an inviolable friendship.
After which they mentioned having matters of a
more particular and private nature to communicate.
A second audience was appointed for this purpose;
and the governor having heard their proposals,
gave a general answer, importing, that he would
consult his council, and next day furnish them

with


MR. JOHN NIEU HOFF. 109

with the result of his deliberations. Accordingly
he saw them next day, and in very complaisant
terms let them know he had consulted. his council;
and that a letter he then delivered to them for their
mailers was all the answer he could possibly give :
upon which the envoys observed, that since vagrants
muff find shelter in the Bahia, they hoped
the governor would signify their names to the Dutch
government, that it might be known whither they
are fled ; which sequel being granted by the governor,
they took their leave having been entertained
with great friendship and magnificence.

The envoys arriving safely at the Receif, delivered
governor Sylvas letter to the great council, which
contained little more than general terms of respect
for the hates of Holland, and those their subjects
in particular, whom he then addressed concerning
the several points of secret instructions already mentioned.
The envoys gave a very minute account,
importing upon the whole as follows.

That the Portuguese troops, according to the
bel information they could obtain, amounted to,
negroes ancUBrafilians included, three thousand,
which were scattered in various garrisons, St. Salvador
being the principal ; that the naval length
was very inconsiderable, confining of fifty small
vessels and yachts not in the least calculated for
war ; that during their hay at Sr. Salvador, two
Portuguese ships of war arrived in Bahia, on pretence
of protecting their trade from the privateers
of Denmark and Chile; that these two ships had
brought orders from his Portuguese majehy, to
forbid the building of small craft, and to enjoin his
subjects to fit out ships in some sort able to refit the
insults of the enemy, from which the envoys seemed
to infer advantages the Dutch, as this alteration
muh render the carriage of Portuguese sugars dearer.
7


In







no THE VOYAGES OF

In regard to the negro trade it was found to
be very trifling; however, they supposed by the
price being three hundred gilders each, that negroes
were not scarce : they farther reported, that
on the 8 th of February they saw in the Bahia two
ships of twenty guns each, whose destination they
could not discover with any degree of certainty;
for which reason they suspected, and justly, some
smiler design : however, before their departure
they learned concerning these Ships, that they were
designed for Angola to defend Malaga and its
inhabitants against the negroes. The truth of this
account they referred to all-explaining time, but
presumed that there was somewhat more intended
by this expedition, as the greatest: care was taken
to secrete it from the envoys, all the Dutch and
Germans being prevented from having any conference
with them during their slay at St. Salvador.

As to Buenos Ayres they reported there was
no commerce between it and any of the Portuguese
captainfliips ; and in refpeff of those persons
who concerted and promoted designs again
the Dutch Brafll, they could not gain the slighted
information, the envoys having thus, as far as they
were able, fulfilled each article of their private
instructions ; to which general account they added
a description of St. Salvador, its inhabitants
governor, fortifications, &c.

The flying report of a revolt which was raised and
quickly vanished in the year 1640, was revived upon
more substantial grounds in 1645 5 for it was discovered
and proved ^lmofl to a certainty, that depending
upon the succours from Bahia, and considering
the weak condition-of the Dutch, (the
greatest part of their fleet and land forces having
gone with count Maurice to Holland) the male-contents
intended to take up arms. This design
the great council being thoroughly acquainted

✓ with,





MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF.

with, they took all imaginable care to prevent it
from taking place, and sent spies to all quarters
with Drift orders to found the inclinations of the
people, and discover, if possible, the ringleaders
of sedition. These precautions, however, proved
successless, for no material discovery could be
made; but as we have already hinted, the Dutch
council were convinced, that an insurrection was
seriously meditated ; for, besides that the Portuguese
were discontented as a conquered people,
their difference of religion from the Dutch, gave
a Rill keener edge to their animosity, and in a great
measure justified the suspicion of them ; they therefore
wrote a very long and explicit letter to the
council of nineteen in Holland, giving an exaff account
of the Rate of things, a detail of the informations
they had received concerning a revolt, the Reps they
had taken to prevent it, concluding with an assurance,
that nothing Should be wanting on their
side to check the insolent or treacherous designs
of public or private foes.

The great council were alarmed with a letter
and various reports concerning the march of a
body of Portuguese again their captainfhip of
Sergippe del Rey ; but these reports appeared upon
examination to be ill grounded : however, on
the 30th of May they received a letter subscribed
A Verdure, under plus ultra ; which letter being
translated from Portuguese, was found to import
as follows : That an attack was absolutely intended
again Dutch Brasil; that Fernandes Vieira was
the moR formidable malecontent, therefore ought
to be seized ; however, that as he was very much
upon his guard, great precaution was necessary for
the apprehending him, as the discovery of such
an intention, previous to the execution, muR in
all probability expedite the impending mischief;
that therefore secrecy as well as expedition was

absolutely




11 2


THE VOYAGES OF

absolutely requisite : disarming the inhabitants of
several Fregafies was wrongly recommended by
this letter. The writers of which infilled strongly
on their veracity and drift attachment to the
Dutch government, observing at the same time it
was then necessary for them to rest unknown, but
that they would discover themselves when danger
was less imminent. To all which they added, byway
of conclusion, advice to apprehend Francisco
Berengel, Vieira’s father-in-law, Antonio Kavalkan-
ti, and all the chief of the Verges. Such was the
purport of the letter, wherein, as they themselves
remarked, the writers were as explicit as they
could have been in personal conference.

On receipt of so material a piece of information.,
the great council called into their assembly, as assistant
members, Paul de Linge, president of the
council of justice, Cornelius Lichthart, vice-admit
rat, and lieutenant-colonel Guardian, to concert
the speediest and mod effectual measures for the
preservation of Dutch Brasil from foreign and domestic
enemies. The several letters and other private
advices being taken under consideration, it
was unanimously agreed, that the situation of
things required the following resolutions to be
put in practice.

Find, To provide all their forts and other garrisoned
places with meal for two months, and to-issue
drift orders to the commanding officers that
they should be constantly upon their guard.

Secondly, It was resolved, thatjohn Ledry, commander
in chief of the Brazilians, should be ordered
to keep his people in readiness to take the
field at an hours warning: and at the same time
the council determined to send spies to all parts
where any intelligence could be hoped for.

Thirdly, It was agreed to furnmon John Fer
nantes Vieira, with his sureties Francifeo'Berengel

and


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 113

and Bernardin Karvalho to the Receif, under colour
of a second agreement with him, which he
much wished for. This appeared the mo if plan-bible
method of attacking Vieira, and thro 5 him
to get at the bottom of the Portuguese plot;
wherefore one Koin a broker, Vieira’s agent in the
agreement, was prevailed upon to draw him into
the snare. Equal care was taken by the great
council for the apprehension of several other dangerous
persons.

C H A P. VI.

Attempts made to seize feme of the principal malton -
tents , but without success ; several of them are attainted
: two of the chiefs seize d , who make some
very material discoveries , and appear to have been
in reality friends to the Dutch: they are set at liberty
: more prisoners brought in: great preparations
are made on every side for an open attack: an
amnesty offered to the rebels : a rising at Cape St.
AugujUne : colonel Hans inarches agairfi the rebels
, and has good success: a dreadful con [piracy of
the Portuguese discovered : Vieira and the rei of
the chiefs of the malcontents make remonstrances to
the council ineffectual: the examination and confess
fion of Antonio Deliver.

A according to the resolution taken by the great
council, all possible means were used to decoy
Vieira into the Receif, but without success ;
upon which lieutenant Dernier was sent to his
house with a party of soldiers to apprehend him by
force. This attempt too proved fruitless, he having
absconded three weeks before. Dernier also
searched the houses of Antonio Kavalkanti and
Antonio Biferro without success.

Several fresh advices of the enemy's being in
motion were transmitted to the great council,

which







114 the voyages of

which being for the mod part ill grounded, served
no purpose but that of perplexing the government.

The council being disappointed in their design
of taking Vieira, attainted a confiderable number
of persons in the several provinces; and fearing
the inhabitants of Parayba, on account of their
large debts, would be foremost in the revolt, Mr.
Paul de Linge was immediately sent thither as a
director, with discretionary power for the government
of Rio Grande as well as Parayba, and brief
orders to press a hundred men out of the lips,
with provisions in proportion, for the defence of fort
St. Margaret, and to keep the inhabitants quiet.

As provisions were very scarce, it was thought
necessary to form a small camp near St. Lawrence,
as well to secure a supply of necessaries as to awe
the malcontents; accordingly four hundred and
odd men were ordered to the ground already mentioned,
and Moribeka town being reviewed, directions
were given to lengthen the fortifications.
The same day information being given that Vieira
had been seen in his mill, that night a party was
immediately dispatched thither, but returned without
having found him ; and by the account of
Vieira’s Reward, on being examined, it appeared
that it was impossible to surprize his vigilance
; however, these disappointments were in
some measure atoned for by the seizure of Sebastian
Kavalho and Antonio de Bulbous, two of the
proscribed persons, who being made prisoners,
were brought into the Receif, where the former
was examined the night of their arrival before Mr.
Warbeck assessor of the court of juice ; upon
which occasion he made a verbal confession to the
following effects :

- That he was one of the three who sent the letter
mentioned in the preceding chapter to the
council; that he had Rgned an association for the

reduced.


JOHN NIEUHOFF. 115

reduction of the Dutch Brasil to the dominion of
the king of Portugal; but said, that Vieira, who
on all hands appeared to be the life blood of the
plot, had by threats frightened him thereto ; however,
that upon signing it he gave immediate notice
thereof to Fernando Vale, and a third person
in conjunction with whom the before-mentioned
letter was written. This and some observations
upon the plan of revolt, which perfectly agreed
with informations already recited, made up the
sum of Karvalho’s confession.

The council being now convinced of Vieira’s
villainous designs, ordered fresh attempts to be
made for apprehending him and his faCtor Manuel
de Sousa; accordingly they were sought for, hill
to no purpose : however, Caspar Perverse who was
supposed to have drawn the association, being a
public notary, was by an order of council seized.

Kavalho, notwithstanding his confession, was
detained prisoner till the 4th of August ; but having
given the council sufficient proof that he was
one of the three secret friends who wrote to them,
and earnestly soliciting enlargement, he was set at
liberty.

The still nearer approach of danger, called for
all possible preparation of defence, to which
end the inhabitants of the Receif, and those persons
who lived on the back of the river, were ordered
to surround their habitations with pallisadoes,
on pain of forfeiting two hundred gilders ; the
fortifications of Maurice town were likewise enlarged
and strengthened ; admiral Lichthart Rationed
two hardships at convenient places, to prevent
any surprize at low water ; and to supply the
deficiency of provisions among the garrisons, orders
were filled to the several military commanders,
to take the necessary quantity of farina or
meal from the inhabitants, for which the company

would







ii THE VOYAGES OF

would be answerable : at the same time Paulo
Lingo set out on his expedition for Parayba, at
the head of one thousand five hundred men, and
Bernardo Karyalho, who had absconded for some
time, was, upon felicitation, allowed to come to
the Receif and justify himself; John Peffoa, another
suspected person, also required leave by
letter to appear before the council, which with a
familiar petition from Father Lawrence Alkunha
was granted, as likewise those of several other
persons.

On the 16th of June, intelligence was received
that Andrew Vidal, with one thousand Portuguese
and a body of negroes, had polled himself
above St. Anthony, near the sugar-mill called
Topekura ; the same day, two proscribed persons,
John Warner de Maris, and Francisco dias del
Gad, were brought prisoners to the Receif.

In this confusion of circumstances, the great
council, after some deliberation upon the matter,
thought it necessary to remove the camp from St.
Lawrence to Moribeka, so to secure the river
Sangea, consequently to become mailers of the
country as far as Cape St. Austin, and thereby to
Rand allured of a safe passage for their provisions ;
which Rep was deemed the more necessary, as
former wars had shewn how supplies from the
feu them country to the Receif might and certainly
would be cut off, if the aforementioned poR
was not secured.

In pursuance of this resolution, the troops were
ordered to Moribeka, and the aldermen of Maurice
town were inRrubled to buy up all necessary x
provisions for the use of those troops : a proclamation
was also issued, commanding the inhabitants
of Serenhaim, Pojuka, St. Antonio, and Moribeka,
to repair completely armed both horse and foot to
St. Antonio, there to serve under the command of

colonel


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 117

colonel Gaspar Vander Ley, and lieutenant colonel
John Heck, for the defence of the open country,
such who were not able to maintain themselves
being ranked in point of provisions with other
soldiers ; the colonel and lieutenant colonel offered
to furnish the garrisons with one thousand five
hundred measures of farina for ready money.

The great council having great reason to suspect
the Brazilians, under their jurisdiction, would be
tampered with by Kamaron, resolved to treat with
their chief Liftry, and endeavour, thro his means,
to persuade those Brazilians to send their wives and
children into the island of Tamarika, under pretence
of securing them from the danger of hostilities,
but in reality to keep them as hostages for
the fidelity of their husbands and fathers.

■ One Antonio d’ Oliver having sent advice to
the great council, that a confiderable number of
Portuguese commanded by Kavalkanti’s brother,
four hundred Brazilians led by Kamaron, three
hundred Indes Rondel from Sertoa, and fifty
negroes headed by Henry Dias, were destined as
succours from the Bahia to the rebels, Mr. Slopes
an enfin was sent out with a snail reconnoitering
party, who having staid out eight days,
returned to the Receif without having made any
confiderable discoveries ; however, he brought intelligence
which, with former discoveries, plainly
proved Vieira to be the main spring of rebellion.

On the 17th of June, the great council with
the approbation of the council of justice, issued a
proclamation, offering a general pardon to all persons
concerned in the rebellion, except the ringleaders,
who would, in five days after said proclamation,
make their personal appearance in the
Receif; in consequence of which, they should,
having taken a new oath of allegiance to the
Dutch government, be indulged with entire and

quiet


118 THE VOYAGES OF

quiet possession of their estates and privileges;
but on the contrary, fire and sword in the worst
degree of military execution, was denounced
again ft such as rejected the proffered mercy : fever
al copies of the proclamation to this effects,
truncated into Portuguese, were next morning
distributed in various places.

Preparations were now making for a vigorous
defence, when the grand council received certain
information that the enemy, to the amount of four
thousand men and upwards, were in motion and
had actually begun hostilities in the district of
Pojuka, where they had seized upon two boats
with passengers, whom they made prisoners, and afterwards
put to the fword,except-one sailor, who was
fortunate enough to escape their barbarity; upon this
intimation, the inhabitants having chose Abating
Amador d’ Arravio for their leader, rose in arms,
and cut off the communication of the Dutch by
land with Cape St. Austin.

June the 20th, a Brafilian arrived at the Receif,
who informed the great council, that being dispatched
to them with letters from captain John
Boar in Porto Calvo, he was set upon near Bamboo
by certain persons of Pojuka, who took from
him the packet of letters, and killed a companion ;
to this he added, that Kamaron was polled in the
district of Porto Calvo, but that captain Boar
possessed the fort.

The receipt of this intelligence, put the council
upon meditating frefti expedients for defence,
and in consequence of their deliberations, it was
resolved that two companies, the whole force then
in Allenoas, should be drawn from thence to the

O 7

Receif. Accordingly a vessel which lay ready for
cruising, was ordered to Porto Francisco, there to
take on board the aforementioned troops, or such
part as she could contain; the remainder to march

by


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. n 9

by land to Rio Francisco, and there join captain
Koin; the garrison of Serenhaim, esteemed too
weak for service there, was ordered to join, the
forces at St. Antonio, and at the same time forty
recruits were sent to reinforce the island of Ta-maria.


Mr. Bas, and Mr. Van de Verde, counsellors
of the court of justice, by order of the council,
entered upon the examination of Gaspar Pervert
the public notary for drawing up the instrument of
association, and John Kariero de Maris, Francisco
Dias del Gad, both mailers of sugar-mills in Po-jura,
and Sebastian Karvalho, concerning what they
knew of the projected conspiracy : upon this examination,
being his second, Karvalho made a confession
of much the same import as that already set
forth.

The same day, the great council received a
letter dated St. Antonio, from messieurs Ley and
Hook, informing them that the whole Fregafie
had taken up arms, and made sixteen or eighteen
Dutch inhabitants prisoners, and that a reinforcement
from the Receif was absolutely necessary to
prevent very ill consequences; this the council
took into consideration, and tho already weak in
numbers at the Receif, yet depending on their fleet
lying off Red-land, for keeping Parayba and Rio
Grande quiet, they ordered colonel Haus with a
hundred men to Moribeka, there to join the forces
commanded by captain Wiltfc.hutt, from thence to
proceed to St. Antonio, and then directly to Po-jura,
to prevent the rebels from cutting off the
communication between the Receif and the garrisons
in the south.

This expedition was attended with such great
success, that the rebels were entirely put to flight,
colonel Haus making himself mailer of the town
and convent, in which latter he found forty prison
news






THE VOYAGES OF

news loaded with irons, whom he released; but receiving
intelligence that Kamaron, with the main
body of rebels, came towards him, he was obliged
to solicit succours from the Receif, which however
necessary, the great council could not send,
having already weakened themselves too much.

On the 21 ft of June, the great council proclaimed
a general sass to be held on the 28 th of
that month, in order to give God thanks for the
timely discovery of Portuguese treachery, which
had plotted to destroy them when they were least
aware of danger, in the following manner.

The malcontents intended on the Whitfun-holi-
days to make solemn rejoicing, give great feasts
and exhibit tournaments, to which the principal
men of Dutch Brasil both civil and military were
to be invited, whom when flushed with wine,
and lulled into unguarded security, with the moll
specious hospitality, they intended to cut off in
like manner as the Sicilian Vespers or Parisian
wedding; but being prevented from perpetrating
their villainous designs for that time, they
fixed on Midsummer day as the next proper period,
well knowing from concurring circumstances, the
Receif to be then more available than at mold
other times: this dark design being discovered before
Midsummer day, it vanished into air, and in
consequence of the discovery, each party betook
themselves to arms.

The Portuguese did not pretend to justify these
proceedings, by putting them on the foot of allegiance
to the king, but pleaded liberty of conscience ;
nevertheless, there was the greatest reason to believe
that the insurrection was known and encouraged
by the court of Portugal as well as the governor
of Bahia, it being very inconsistent with
reason or probability that Kamaron and the other
ringleaders would presume to attack the Dutch,

unless


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. m

tiles encouraged by some superior power; bell
des Acheron affected, that he read in a Portuguese
commission the following words, 44 This revolt
“ and war are undertaken for the honour of God,

“ the propagation of the Roman catholic faith,
and for the service of the king and common libere

ty.”-To this he added, that he had heard several

Portuguese fa}q that if they miscarried in
their secret design, they would openly attack and
drive the Dutch out with fire and sword. It has
been by some suggested, that it was very improbable
the king of Portugal should draw on himself
a Dutch war, when his affairs were in so un
fettled a situation as they appeared to be at that
time ; nevertheless, future events contradicted this
opinion very sufficiently.

On the 22d of June a letter was delivered to the
great council from the following persons, Fernando
des Vieira, Antonio Kavalkanti, John Pafcoa, Manuel
Kavalkanti, Antonio Biferro and Cosmo de
Eraflo Paros; in which letter they complained
heavily of being great sufferers on account of false
accusations laid against them by certain jews, as
enemies to the government; that being informed
their estates and goods were to be confiscated and
bellowed upon certain Hollanders, they humbly
prayed that the late offered pardon of five days
continuance might be prolonged, as too short a
space for the determination of so material a ife,
and that the pardon might be rendered general,
by a removal of all exceptions. To this the petitioners
added, that if so equitable a proposal
was refused, they thought themselves before God
and all catholic princes perfectly innocent of all
those ill consequences and miseries which such a
refusal might give rise to.

The great council having deliberated upon this
very model! letter, warm debates arose j some
Vol, IV. G were










THE VOYAGES OF

were for granting the solicited general pardon*
others with more justice and resolution observed*
that tho affairs were not in the most agreeable situation,
yet that a letter pregnant with such arrogant
and sanctified untruths, ought to be treated
with the greatest contempt; it being certainly unworthy
of notice. During this debate advices came
from colonel Haus at St. Antonio, acquainting the
council that he hoped to attack the rebels the
next day, with a strong presumption of success ;
which by what has been already said, we find the
colonel was not deceived in. This express determined
the debate, which ended in a resolution to lay
aside the letter under confederation till they heard
again from colonel Haus.

o

On the 28 th of June, Acheron arrived in the
Receif with two companies from Allegory, which
were on their arrival divided between the Quin-irregular
and Ernest sorts. This definable
reinforcement was attended with letters from Paul
Linge in Parayba, which gave very particular pleasure,
as they contained an account that the Prays
gave the most solemn assurances of fidelity,
and offered to take a fresh oath of allegiance; and
that he had great reason to believe them facere, as
the nicest inspection could not discover any appearance
of revolt or discontent.

June the 29th, a special commission was issued
from the council for Balthazar Vander Voerden to
examine Antonio d’Oliveira^ concerning the plot
formed by the Portuguese against the government:
.being questioned, he declared that about the beginning
of the month current, at the house of sebastian
Karvalho, being in company with Francisco
d'Oliveira, Bernardin Karvalho, and Sebastian Karl
valho a certain Portuguese, w r ell known to them
all, delivered him a letter directed to all persons
present, which letter contained another piece of

paper









MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 123

paper unsealed, which he began to peruse; but
finding the contents run as follows—That the underwritten
persons declare themselves faithful subjects
of his Portuguese majesty, Vieira, Berengar
and many others, whose names he did not read,
were the subscribing persons; he gave back the
paper without signing it, and observed at the same
time to his son Francisco d’Oliveira, that it would
be better for him to suffer the cutting off a limb
than to sign that paper. He also deposed, that not
one person then present signed ; that he knew not
the hand ; but thinking it incumbent on him to
discover so villainous an affair, did accordingly, two
days after, acquaint Matthew Rey with it, directing
him to make it known to the great council.


C H A P. VIL


Diego Lopes Lyete examined before the great council:
a party of the Dutch'are defeated , and the people
of Iguerfu revolts: proceedings of the council there*
horn : fops taken by colonel Haus : Vieira leaves
nothing untried to increase his party : pardon offered
to such of the rebels as Shall chuse to fruit: Ferdinand
Vieira , Antonio Kavalkantf and Amador
d'Arouje are outlawed: a second deputation.fsnt to
the Bahia if ands) which is treated by the governor
with great repeal : plain proofs appear of the Port
tuguefe treachery : military proceedings in the mean
tune : some remonstrances of the ringleaders of the
rebellion treated with great contempt , and some favour
craved for their families denied: the rebels lay
siege to Cape St. Antonio but retire on the approach
of colonel Haus.


M Messieurs BuliaeftreteandDortmont taking
one Diego Lopes Leyte under examination,
upon the 30th of June, he confessed to

G 2 the







124 THE voyages of

the following purport, viz. That when the design
of the portuguese revolters was first set on foot,
the said rebels had by letter solicited succours
from De Silva governor of the Bahia, declaring if
he refused the required aid, they would surrender
themselves to the Turks, as they preferred any
mailers to the Dutch; that nevertheless he had
heard many dreadful imprecations uttered again!!
the fomenter of these disturbances, Vieira, who by
several was looked on as a consummate villain,
whose only motive for promoting the projected insurrection,
was to clear himself of those exorbitant
debts he owed the company.

The same day a small party of Brahmans, who
were sent to bring in a considerable quantity of
meal from St. Lawrence, were entirely routed, but
few escaping with the account of this disagreeable
circumstance. The council received an express
containing matter yet more irksome, that some
inhabitants of Iguarafu had taken up arms a-
gains them.

It being judged necessary to draw the fortifications
of Maurice-town into a Smaller compass, and
to Strengthen that place by a new line with a
breast-work, the same was accordingly executed
by the negroes under the inspection of admiral
Liehthart.

The fomenters of rebellion in Iguarafu were
pointed out to the council by the names of John
Lawrence Frances and John Dias Leyte. Advice
also came from the magistrates of that country,
Signifying that Vieira had caused papers of very
evil tendency to be polled up in the sugar mills,
which however they ordered to be torn down,
being resolved, as much as in them lay, to check
the progress of rebellion, which they had great
reason to believe many of the inhabitants ripe for.
At the Same time letters came to the council from

captain













MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 125

captain Suffer In the island of Tamarika with
intelligence, that certain Brazilians from the villages
of St. Michael and Nassau, to the number of
eighty men, one hundred and ten women and children
were arrived there, and that the Brazilians
of Otto intended the like. With these letters came
dispatches from the Portuguese magistrates, and
principal inhabitants of Goyana,alluring the government
of loyal adherence.

Ferdinand Vale, a person already mentioned
as one of the three who wrote a letter to the
council, revealing the Portuguese plot, being examined
before messieurs Vander Verde and Bas,
made confession of what has been already set forth
in the deposition of Sebastian Karvalho, without
any confiderable variation or addition.

The council being alarmed with a rumour, that
the Portuguese of Bahia would send a fleet to the
assistance of the rebels, ordered four £hips from
the Red Land to the Receif, and sent dispatches
to lieutenant-colonel Haus, who had taken and
caused a ringleader of the rebellion to be hanged, - ’
containing orders for his return to the Receif withall
the forces that could be spared from Pojuka.

While colonel Plans was labouring to quiet matters
in Pojuka, Vieira and Antonio Kavalkanti,
who now Riled themselves heads of the war, used
not only persuasion, but force, to augment their
party, carrying cruelty so far as to put some to the
(word who refused to join them. The same lawless
proceedings were carried on by Amador d’A-
rouse in Pojuka ; so that by dispensing provisions,
dealing out large promises of reward, and intimidation,
they formed a confiderable body in the
Vergeaa. In order to curb as much as possible this
insolent treachery, the great council ordered
captain Blaar to march out from the Receif withall
imaginable secrecy, at the head of three hung

3 died


126 THE VOYAGES OF

died men, which he was directed to place in ambush
near certain passes where the enemy might be intercepted,
not questioning but home prisoners mud betaken,
by which means discovery would probably
be made of Vieira’s utmod strength, where his main
body lay, and what discours were expected from
Bahia. Orders were also dispatched .to colonel
Halts to march with all possible expedition towards
the Vergeaa, there to join captain Blaar, and
endeavour to bring the rebels to an engagement,
as one successful blow on the governments side
mud, in all probability, extinguish the dame of rebellion.


It being debated in council, whether the juncture
of affairs did not demand a general pardon for all
rebels without exception, who submitted to sue
for it, the argument was determined in the affirmative
; this being deemed the mod piaudble method
of quieting many of the malcontents.

Letters were received by the great council July 2d,
from captain Blaar, importing that he was prepared
and resolved to attack the rebels wherever he met
them. Colonel Haus also acquainted the council
by express, July the 4th, that having disposed of
every thing in Pojuka to the bed advantage, he
was on his march to Moribeka, where he would
remain in expectation of their farther orders.

The inhabitants of Goyana having fortified themselves
in the house of the chief magistrate Lidry,
solicited the great council for a supply of forty
muskets to arm those who were unprovided,
which request was immediately granted ; and orders
were sent to Serves Carpenter to disarm all
the Portuguese either by fair or foul means : to
which command he replied, that he would use his ut-mod
endeavours to disarm them by gentle methods,
as it was not in his power to use compulsion ; he bedded





MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. resides

observed that every thing had hitherto remained
quiet in Goyana, except that some a< 5 ts of
violence had been committed by the Brazilians
again if the Portuguese inhabitants : he also informed
the council, that moil of the rebellious
Portuguese had left their wives and children behind
them ; in which case several friends of the
government thought it very necessary to oblige their
families to follow them, which, as they observed,
would incumber the rebels with useless mouths to-consume
their provision, and considerably impede,
their marches, also remove a number of persons,
who in their present situation served as spies.
Which reasons being maturely weighed, the council
blued a proclamation, that the wives and children
of all those concerned in the rebellion should
quit their respective dwellings, and repair to their
husbands and fathers within six days, unless the
said husbands and fathers within that time fur-rendered
themselves, and sued for mercy from the
council.

About the same time, near one thousand Brazilians,
three hundred and sixty-nine of the number
being men, the res women and children, had retired
to the bland of Tamarika, there to shelter
themselves from the rebels, arid Mr. Dormant
counsellor of the finances was sent thither as absolute
director of Iguarafu.

July the eth, a proclamation was blued, consenting
the estates arid effects of Fernandes Vieira,
Antonio Kavalkanti, and Amador d’Arouje, as
traitors to the bate : by this proclamation they
were also outlawed, and a reward of one thousand
Charles's gilders promised to any person or per
fons who should apprehend or kill either of thea
foresaid rebels, besides exemption from all previ¬
outcries; and if a Have, freedom was to be his

G 4 reward.


128 THE VOYAGES OF

reward, for the meritorious aft of cutting off such
treacherous disturbers of public tranquillity.

While the great council were thus labouring to .
crush rebellion, a fresh alarm rose of a fleet coming
from the Bahia to assisi the rebels; upon
which it was determined once more to send an
embassy to Antonio Telles da Silva, complaining of
so manifest an infringement of the truce concluded
between the king of Portugal and the
States General.

The persons fixed for this embassy were Balthazar
Vander Verde counsellor of the court of
justice, and Dirk van Hoogftrate, then captain in
chief to the Cape of St. Austin, having Francis
Jurymen Pineapple appointed their secretary,
with Gerard Dirk-let, Alexander Solve and Jacob
Swears as attendant gentlemen.

The instructions given by the great council to
these ambassadors were to lay open the occasion of
the rebellion, and to pry into the real intentions of
the governor, by preferring complaints again the
succours sent to the rebels by land thro Rio St.
Francisco, and to desire them to recall Kamaron
and Henry Dias with their troops from Dutch
jBia.ni, men 10 pump them according to their defer
ts ; and the aforesaid ambassadors were instructed
to declare, in case the governor did not give
some proofs of real friendship, that the acts of
nobility which had been already committed would
certainly be looked upon as a breach of peace ;
and that the Dutch thought themselves innocent of
all the ill consequences which might ensue from
taking up arms in their own defence, as they had
taken so much pains to compromise matters by reasonable
remonstrance.

The ambassadors, upon their arrival in the Bahia,
were received on the part of the governor by

lieutenant.



JOHN NIEUHOFF. 129

lieutenant-colonel Andrew Vidal and captain Pedro
Kavalkanti, who conducted them to the palace,
where they delivered their credentials to the governor,
acquainting him, that he would find in
them the several points which they were empowered
to negotiate. The governor having perused
their credentials, replied, that he was ready to
hear their propositions; upon which they proceeded
as follows.

That many of the States Generals Portuguese
subjects having taken up arms again the government,
had solicited others to join them, under colour
of being powerfully affixed from abroad ;
that Kamaron and Henry Dias at the head of their
negroes and Brazilians being on a march in a hostile
manner to Pernambuko, several of the principal
malcontents Vieira, Kavalkanti, Arouse, &c.
immediately quitted their habitations to join with
foreign troops, in conjunction with whom they endeavoured
at subverting the Dutch government.
To which the ambassadors added, that their mass
terms wanted not power to repel such treacherous
insolence, but were somewhat at a loss to account
for the hodie entrance of foreign troops into their
territories during a time of peace : that the great
council and the rest of the inhabitants being convinced
of governor Silva’s wisdom and probity,
could not admit a thought so injurious to his character,
as to suppose he would encourage any persons
under his jurisdiction to give rebels the leaf!
abundance, but were certain that on the contrary he
would, as became a good neighbour, exert his ut-mod
power towards the suppression of such law*
less proceedings.

In answer to this remonstrance the governor replied,
that he had no knowledge of any succours sent
to the rebels ; that those Brazilians and negroes
who appeared in arms again the Dutch govern

5 ■ meat



130 THE VOYAGES OF

sent were no more than banished vagrants, who
having committed misdemeanours in the Bahia,
took those methods of escaping legal prosecution ;
that tho many such like persons came from
to the Bahia, he never entertained the
leaf! doubt of the Dutch governments sincerity
and friendship. To this the governor added, that
be was extremely glad to find the great council
entertained a good opinion of his integrity ; that
lie would continue to deserve it, tho the illegal
capture of a Portuguese flip had given him just
cause of complaint; and tho he had great reason
to believe that this embassy, as well as the first,,
was merely calculated to found his intentions and
discover his strength ; that nevertheless he would
lay the letters of the Dutch regents before his council,
and give the ambassadors a speedy answer. Thus
ended their first audience.

At the second audience of the ambassadors, the
governor told them, that having perused the great
councils letter to him, he found it perfectly-con
sonant with what they proposed to him at their
first audience; wherefore the same answer would
serve for the present, but that he would for greater
satisfaction of their masters send a written reply
by them, and Shortly after dispatch envoys to the Receif,
who should declare his sentiments more at large.
In consequence of this promise, the ambassadors
were furnished with a letter for the great council;
and having taken their leave on the 20th of July
sailed for the Relief, where arriving the 28 th,
they acquainted their masters with their negotiations,
and delivered to them the governors letter,
which contained solemn assurances of friendship
on his part: however, he set forth many causes of
complaint against the Dutch, such as unjust proceedings
in the conquest of Angola, &c. and seemed
to say that the regents had too readily listened

7 to






MR. JOHN N'lEU H O F F. 131

to the information of Jews, as he observed, the
sworn enemies of Christians; and in consequence.
of what they had maliciously said, acts of hostility
were committed against the Portuguese inhabitants,
who were obliged upon the principles of felf-de-
fence to quit their dwellings and seek for safety in
arms: then continued, that as to their lordships
proposition of obliging Kamaron and Henry Dias
with their followers to quit their arms and return
to the Bahia, he had not power to fulfil it by
compulsion; however, that to shew his friendship,
he would use his utmost power of mediation, and
send deputies to their lordships for a farther proof
of his pacific intentions, and desire to cultivate a
good opinion and correspondence with the Dutch.

This letter being delivered to the council, Mr.
ttoogfirate proceeded to give them a secret verbal
account of the following import: that shortly after
his arrival at the Bahia, three Portuguese, Andrew
Vidal, captain Kunha, and John de Sousa attempted,
by promising of a large reward, to corrupt
him ; that, as being commander of St. Austin, they
might so far prevail on him as to gain that sort for
the Portuguese king, offering in lieu of the quiet
surrender thereof, to repay the obligation with vail
possessions and employments; to confirm which proposal,
they told him he might have a private interview
with the governor, to which he was accordingly
introduced, with great caution and privacy.
When the governor fainting him with great marks
of affability and friendship, recommended to him
the acceptance of Sofas proposals; for, says he,
we do not intend to declare war again if the Dutch,
but to recover what indisputably belongs to the king
our mailer r then continued, that he could not, for
fear of causing suspicion in Hoogflrate’s colleague'
VanVoerde, be so explicit on this occasion as he
would wish, but that he would shortly send two

G 6 deputies







i 3 2 THE VOYAGES OF

deputies to the Receif, captain Kunha one, and
that the said Kunha should be empowered to treat
with him at large upon Sofas proportion, prevailing
that whatever agreement Kunha should make,
would certainly be ratified by the king their mailer.

The military transactions, during the absence of
the ambassadors, were as follows. July the 5th, it
was debated in council, whether the Tapoyers of
Rio Grande, under their king John Duvy, should
be employed against the rebels : however, foreseeing
the inconvenience that muff accrue to the inhabitants,
from a march of such barbarous irregulars
thro the flat country, it was resolved not to
determine this point till colonel Haus had been consulted,
to whom a letter on this fubjeff was immediately
dispatched.

On the 7th, an express from colonel Haus to the
council arrived, which informed them that he intended
to march the next day from Moribeka to
St. Lawrence, there upon his junction with captain
Blaar to attack the rebels. The same day the council
received a letter from lieutenant Fleming in
Po’uka, to inform them that Kamaron was marched
against them, and that two companies of the
enemy were come so near as the sugar-mill of Pandora;
upon which the council dispatched instructions,
directing, that if he could not maintain his
.poll in the monastery, he should immediately retreat
to St. Antonio.

Ensign HartRein was also dispatched, with a detachment
of ninety soldiers and thirty Brazilians, to
join colonel Haus ; and on the 8th, two companies
more were ordered to join him. The council judging
this expedition to be of the utmost importance*
the next day advice came that captain Blaar had
joined the colonel; to which latter the council Rnt
an account of the intelligence they had received
from Pojuka, desiring him that he would send as

many





MR. JOHN NIEUHCFF. 133

many firelock and Brazilians to the aid of St. Antonio.
Two letters from John Fernando Vieira, and
Antonio Kavalkanti were received by the council,
complaining against the severity of the two lash proclamations
: however, these two letters were taken
no notice of, which contempt was the more especially
shewn, as Amador d’Arouje had some two
days before retreated from the pass of Pinderama.

Mr. Hock, governor of Rio Grande, informed
the council, that hitherto there had not been
any commotions in that part as yet; however,
that he had disarmed the Portuguese, and that the
Troyes s appeared well inclined to the government s,
orders were immediately sent him to cultivate a
good understanding with theTapoyers, to further
which they sent presents to John Duvy. At the
same time several Portuguese inhabitants of Dutch
Brasil petitioned the council, that the time of six
days, appointed by the lash: proclamation, for the
wives and children of the revolters to leave the
country, might be prolonged, till the ways which
overflowing rivers rendered impassable were in some
measure mended: however, as the rebels proceeded
with such violence as to force the inhabitants
to join them, the petition was rejected.

On the 13th of July, the council received advice
from colonel Haus, that he had passed the river Ka
pivaribi, and marching thro the Matta had met
with four hundred rebels, who on his approach
fled to Moribeka, some of their men being cut off
in the retreat; that he was then marching to St.
Lawrence, and would there wait the councils further
orders. Upon this the council sent him instructions
to pursue the rebels immediately, so to prevent
them from coming to ahead; after which they
advised him to fix his head-quarters in some place
where he might be supplied with provisions, as
they could not spare him any from the Receif; however.







134 T HE VOYAGES OF

ever, the colonel had of himself taken precautionary
Peps in this case, having sent a reinforcement
of an hundred foot, and a company of Brazilians,
to Mr. Ley governor of Moribeka and St. Antonio.


Orders were dispatched to the governor of cape St
Austin, to lengthen the fortifications, he having
received Advice from St. Antonio, that the rebels
under Amador d’Arouje, and Pedro Marina
had poised themselves within sight of Mr. Ley,
from whence he expected, when he received certain
succours, to dislodge them, Arouse having in
vain attempted to force those of Pojuka to take up
arms against the government.

Whilst colonel Haus was bulled anainff the reo



bets in the Vergeaa, Pedro Falkao gathered a sufficient
number , of rebels to block up St. Antonio,
where the garrison were supplied by the adjacent
country, in which dilemma the council ordered
colonel Haus to hasten thither to relieve the fort;
to which purpose the colonel marched the same
night he received those orders, leaving a company
and ail the sick at St. Lawrence, under the direction
of captain Wietfchut.

Paul de Linge governor of Parayba, by letters
dated July the 12th, informed the council that
things as yet remained quiet in his dismiss; but
that he had confiderable trouble in keeping the
Brazilians from plundering the Portuguese inhabitants,
who on their side complained much, that
feme of the Brazilians and Tapoyers, who had done
them confiderable mischief, were discharged out of
custody. Upon receipt of this intelligence, the council
ordered him to mediate matters as well as he
could, and sent a proclamation to the following effect
to be published there, that no military person
should, on pain of the governments utmost displeasure,
presume to invade the lead property belonging







MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 135

mg to any of the Portuguese subjects who had taken
a new oath of allegiance.

July the 15 th, the council was advertised by Mr,
Ley, that the rebels had killed some of the garrison
of St. Antonio, who were sent out to fetch in
some cattle, and had blocked up the place so closely
that the garrison could not get any provisions *
and, as they had not necessaries for above a few
days longer, were in the utmost: danger : upon:
which the council ordered colonel Haus from St,
Lawrence, with several small parties to join him to
relieve fort Antonio ; or if the colonel did not think
k so prudent to go in person, captain Blaar was
to undertake the expedition in his Read, as the pre*
servation of cape St. Austin was dependent upon
that place.

In consequence of these orders, colonel Haus
proceeded on his march, which had so happy an
effefi, that Pedro Falkao, on the first notice of his
approach, raised the siege, and with small parties
collected from St. Antonio, Pojuka, and Moribeka,
to the amount of about six hundred, retired to
the main body of the rebels in the Vergeaa of .



CHAP


136 THE VOYAGES OF


CHAP VIE

Instructions of the council to colonel Haus : king john
Duvy offers to raise forces and march against the
rebels: proportions made for raising men by Mr .
Ley : the Tapoyers murder thirty-five Portuguese
who hadprevioufh laid down their arms : the rebels
are defeated \ but in their turn obtain a very signal
victory over the Dutch troops commanded by colonel
Haus: they also harass them in different quarters :
remonstrances sent to Holland of the necessary of succours
from Europe : deceitful conduct of the governor
of the Bahia islands: an engagement between
the Portuguese and Dutch fleets in which the former
are entirely defeated: reports raised to the
disadvantage of the Dutch 5 but contradicted by
their admiral .

T HE council were informed by letters from
colonel Haus, that he was obliged to put
the men into quarters of refreshment in Moribeka,
they having been lately much fatigued with tedious
marches; however, that he had sent captain Blaar
with a body of the ablest and freshest men to seize
two boats laden with ammunition, which Pedro de
Kunha had landed in Puerto de Gallinas, On receipt
of this advice the council sent their approbation
of his conduct to the colonel, and at the
same time furnished him with instructions to keep
a strict watch upon the rebels, who were retired
into the woods, but that in case they grew too
strong for him he should retire into the Receif: he
was likewise advised that Amador d’Arouje, with
the several parties of rebels gathered in St. Antonio
and Pojuka, had marched the day before from
Moreno Garde, to join their troops with those under
the command of Fernandes Vieira.


Rio





MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 137

Rio Grande being threatened with an invasion
by Kamaron on the south, and by the Brazilians of
Siara and Maranhaon on the north, the Portuguese
inhabitants were all disarmed, and their weapons
secured in Fort Keulen, and one Antonio Vitally,
with his son, were taken into custody by the advice
of king Duvy, who charged them as concerned
in the murder of the Dutch at Siara, and other
adds of rebellion. Complaints were preferred to the
great council against several Portuguese in this district
for oppressing the Dutch thereabouts ; and
they were at the same time informed that king
Duvy was ready to lead his Tapoyers against the
rebels.

On the 24th of July, Mr. Ley came to the council,
and made several propositions to them, importing
as follows: that he thought it expedient to
force several able young men of Maurice town and
St. Antonio to take arms against the rebels, there
being a confiderable number thereabouts who
would not enter as volunteers; that it would be
good policy to draw out the garrison of Porto Cairo,
as a more formidable appearance might by that
be made in the field ; also, to divide the land-forces
into two parties, the better to maintain themselves
in the open country, and to strengthen the
garrison of St. Antonio ; which latter was the only
point they agreed to, for they would by no means
suffer force to be used in respect of the inhabitants
of St. Antonio, Pojuka, orMoribeka, but empowered
Mr. Ley and Heck to enlist all who offered
themselves volunteers for four months at nine gilders
per month. In respect of Porto Calvo they
thought it of too much consequence to venture it
without a garrison; and as to the proposed division
of the land-forces, they determined to consult
colonel Haus,


By




138 THE VOYAGE S OF

By letters dated the 18th and 27th of July from
Hans Vogel, at Sergippe del Rey, the council were
informed that the said Vogel having sent a party
out to gain intelligence of Kamaron, they took a
single Portuguese, charged with a packet of letters
for Rio Francisco, which Portuguese told him,
that Kamaron had marched into Sergippe del Rey,
and that three or four small vessels with troops
aboard, under the command of Andrew Vidal,
were sailed from the Bahia to Marshal and Tiara.
The letters taken from the forementionedPortuguefe
being examined in council, furnished very confiderable
proofs that those of Bahia were at leas! accessary
to the rebellion : as, among many others, there
was found a letter from the bishop of that place
to a friar of the Receif, wherein he hoped to be
with him ere long. This discovery occasioned an
order to the fiscal to examine the matter, and find
out, if possible, the bottom of this secret correspondence
between the two clergymen. While theses
were under consideration, the Tapoyers of
Rio Grande murdered thirty-five Portuguese in the
sugar-mills of Kunha, which circumstance eauied
the greater uneasiness, as they were of the number
who had laid down their arms, according to the
tenor of the councils proclamation, and consequently
this accident muff give advantage to the
rebels by frightening many over to their party; w therefore
Mr. Linge solicited a reinforcement to awe the
Tapoyers ; upon which the council ordered a detachment
to con duff the Tapoyers to the Receif.

By this time the troops of Beaus being sufficiently
refreshed, he,by consent of the council, went in quest
of the rebels, came up with, and attacked them so
successfully, that they retired from place tp place
till the 3d of August, when they took shelter in
an entrenchment on a sleep hill, accessible only
on one side. Thither the colonel, flushed with

hopes





MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 139

hopes of a complete and decisive victory pursued
them, but the ill consequence of so imprudent, tho s
daring an attempt plainly evinced, that courage
without conduct is but a very trifling or rather
dangerous attribute for a commander, the rebels,
from the advantage of their situation, and superior
numbers, obliging him to retreat with the loss of
an hundred, or as some say, five hundred men,
and one captain Lor.

In consequence of this defeat, and being apprised
that the rebels expected succours from the Bahia,.
Hans thought it necessary to retreat into the Receif,
knowing likewise that his troops were absolutely
wanted to defend the place.

On the ifs of August, two Portuguese, Consilio
Cabral de Kaldos, and Thomas Pais, were condemned
as abettors of the rebellion ; and the same
day letters came from Serenhaim, which informed
the council that many rebels appeared thereabouts,
who had made themselves masters of the river,
Raved all the boats, plundered D’Ingenio Formosa,
and killed all the beads belonging to the Dutch,
leaving those which belonged to the Portuguese
unhurt.

The council being thus alarmed and perplexed
with disagreeable accounts from all quarters, and
rightly judging that nothing but force could reduce
the rebels to reason, which means they did not
find themselves possessed of, especially as the Dutch
troops diminished daily, resolved to send Mr. Balthazar
Vander Voerden to Holland, to acquaint the
council of nineteen with the true Rate of Dutch
Brasil: accordingly the said Vander Voerden being
furnished with the necessary instructions, failed
from the Receif, taking with him a letter, setting
forth in an explicit manner, the perfidious behaviour
of Antonio Telles de Silva, who under a specious
magic of friendship endeavoured secretly to

corrupt




140 THE VOYAGES OF

corrupt one of the Dutch officers ; and also sent
succours to the rebels : these proceedings the great
council of Brasil submitted to the council of nineteen,
requiring that their lordships would take all
possible and speedy methods to ward off impending
destruction, by a timely supply of those succours
necessary for defence of the settlements.

Having taken a view of the proceedings of the
Dutch, let us turn our eyes to the Bahia, where it
appears that immediately after the departure of
Messrs. Vander Voerden and Hoogflrate from thence
on their return home, governor Silva ordered all
the sea and land-forces that could be collected, to
embark on board of twelve ships which were ready
to receive them, with arms, ammunition, and provisions
necessary for the intended invasion, Hieronymus
Sera de Pavo being appointed commander
of the fleet, and colonel Martin Moreno of the land-forces.


This armament got ready under colour of forcing
the rebels to obedience, was ordered to sail
as secretly as possible from the Bahia to Pernam-
bubo, where the land-forces were to be put on
shore at the moll; convenient harbour, which was
accordingly done at Tamandre, when the fleet,
according to order, failed for the Receif, admiral
Payva being instructed to deliver a letter from the
governor to the great council with his own hands.

The land-forces put on shore the 28th of July,
under the command of colonel Martin Moreland
Andrew Vidal, numbered between eighteen
hundred and two thousand men, among whom
were many well experienced officers, the whole
body being extremely well furnished with every
military appointment.

The Portuguese fleet under admiral Payva being
joined by another fleet from Rio Janeiro, commanded



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 14*

handed by admiral Salvador, steered their course
towards the bay of Pernambuko.

The first: intelligence the great council received
of these motions on the side of the Portuguese, was
from the master of a small vessel who had met
their fleet to the amount of twenty eight or thirty
ships off Una, three of which pursued and fired after
him: about the same time major Hoogfirate sent
letters from cape St. Austin, intimating, that a body
of troops landed at Una had marched to Serene
taken the place, where they gave quarters
to the Dutch, but cut the Brazilians to pieces ;
whereupon the council sent orders to Mr. Ley to
leave Fort Antonio, and march with the garrison
thereof to cape St. Austin, whither also they sent
a supply of provisions ; and for the better defence
of their territories, they gave orders for getting
the small fleet the Dutch had there in immediate
readiness ; and at the same time intelligence of the
enemy's arrival was dispatched to the governors
of the several districts.

The Portuguese fleet coming to anchor overnight
off the Receif, next morning their admiral
sent two deputies on board the Dutch admiral, with
whom he sent four letters, two from the governor
of Bahia, one from each of the admirals Salvador
and Payva; besides, a letter from governor Silva
to Vieira and Kavalkanti. Admiral Lichthart having
carried the deputies ashore, they delivered the
letters to the council, which after being translated
were read, and found to contain, exclusive of many
fair words and friendly protestations, nothing
more than some sophistical arguments to persuade
the Dutch council, that their very good friend governor
Silva had sent them succours both by land
and sea to crush rebellion, tho they had signified
to him that a severe proclamation issued by him
against the rebels would better please them: to

this



142 THE VOYAGES OF

this the deputies added, that the governor would
be obliged to the great council, if they would, by
a letter to his matter the king of Portugal, signify
his manner of proceeding.

In taking a View of governor Silva’s evasive conduct,
it will not be amiss to observe, that in his
letter to Vieira and the rest of the rebels, he styled
them the king's subjects, for whose defence he had
sent the necessary succours ; but with this paltry restriction,
that they were to use all gentle means in
bringing the rebels to obedience of the Dutch government.


From a comparison of circumstances it appearing
manifest, that governor Silva acted contrary to the
councils interest and intentions; and, instead of recalling
the Portuguese subjects who had joined the
rebellion, sent forces to aid them; and likewise caused
so formidable a fleet to appear before the Receif,
for no other end but that of spiriting up the rebels ;
they very justly viewed him as a treacherous and
deep scheming enemy: wherefore the presence of
the Portuguese gave great uneasiness, especially as
the Dutch naval force in that part of the world was
only dive ships ; that number "was indeed ready for
sailing, but very indifferently manned, and scantily
provided with ammunition, especially gun-powder.

The council, upon mature deliberation of the
present circumstances, unanimously resolved to thank
admiral Salvador for the proposed succours ; and to
desire him, for several reasons then set forth, to
quit the harbour with his fleet : in consequence of
this resolution, a letter was dispatched from the
great council to the admiral, which at worst might
gain time for the preparation of two ships then getting
ready to strengthen the Dutch fleet, which in
case the Portuguese proceeded to hostilities, might
give some probability of standing against them:

however.


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 143

however, to remove all doubts, the Portuguese
fleet got under sail the 14th, by break of day.

It being now agreed on all Sides, that the governor
of the Bahia endeavoured only to amuse the
great council, till a fair opportunity presented itself
to Subvert their government, orders were given to
admiral Lichthart to treat the Portuguese as enemies
wherever he could meet them.

Intelligence being received that the Portuguese
intended to land Some men at the bay of Frackona,
Mr. Linge was ordered to collect! all the soldiers
and Tapoyers he could, to prevent their junction
with the rebels in that captainfhip. A debate was
also held whether it would not be prudent to send
Some ships under the command of admiral Lich
that thither, with peremptory orders to attack the
Portuguese as Soon as possible; but, after various
arguments, if was agreed to wait till the naval
power was rendered as strong as possible, by getting
ready all the ships and helping the deficiency
of Sailors with a number of able land-men to be
collected in the Receif.

Affairs being brought to the present Serious cliffs,
all possible preparations, offensive and defensive,
were made by the council; and the fleet, when
ready, sailed under the command of admiral Lich
that to the bay of Tamandre, where th ey attacked
a Portuguese Squadron, admiral against admiral;
when after a warm engagement, above Seven hundred
Portuguese were killed, their admiral made
prisoner, and Several of their ships destroyed; of
which success Lichthart acquainted the council by a
letter, wherein he promised a Speedy return to the
Receif, there being no appearance of any future
action where he then was.

A report having prevailed, that in the engagement
between the fleets, the Dutch had behaved

with


144 THE VOYAGES OF

with great cruelty, the Portuguese admiral Payva
wrote a letter to Andrew Vidal, justifying the behaviour
of the Dutch, and highly commending
their humane generous treatment both of the prisoners
and wounded.

CHAP. VIII.

Fort Serenhaim taken by the Portuguese, who are guilty
of many barbarities; which they endeavour to excuse:
their publications are refuted by the Dutch :
the Portuguese attack cape St. Austin ; which , together
with the whole garrison is betrayed for a sum
of money : the character of the traitor canvassed:
colonel Haas retreats with the forces under his com -
?nant: relation of the Brazilians: several Dutch
officers made prisoners: their treatment: Differs and
Bruckhaufen in danger of assassin nation : the former
is put to the rack ; but at la } t both get off to Holland:
bad news from Rio St. Francisco : an am -
nest published by the Dutch council.

I N answer to the admiral's letter in favour of the
behaviour of the Dutch, Andrew Vidal replied,
that many flagrant instances might be produced of
the moil: violent abuses committed against his Portus
guess majesty's subjects, for which he hoped speedy
and severe vengeance might be taken: at the same
time he sent a letter to the great council, teeming
with complaints, and requesting, or indeed rather
ordering them to take care of their future conduct
towards the Portuguese, left he should be under
a necessity of making reprisals.

Upon the taking of Fort Serenhaim, a specious
declaration was made by the Portuguese, importing
that they came into the Dutch territories merely
as mediators; but, finding their countrymen

treated


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 145

treated with moil; unparalleled barbarity, and even
fearing their own safety tho they came as friends,
they were forced to take precautionary Heps again
Dutch treachery: nevertheless, it soon appeared,
that the complainants were most guilty; for, immediately
after the surrender of Serinhaim, in direct
opposition to the terms of that capitulation, they
began to lord it over the country as undoubted masters
thereof. Thirty poor Brazilians, tho protected
by treaty, they put to death, and committed many
other acis of violence equally unjust, tho not quite
so cruel; however, safe-guards were furnished to
the Dutch inhabitants, but two of whom quitted
the thrift of Serinhaim tho affairs wore so unfavourable
an aspect.

The Portuguese commanders Hill labouring more
and more to varnish over the face of guilt, wrote a
long letter to the great council, wherein the complaints
already mentioned were repeated with great
exaggeration, and many new ones added besides,
as a proof of their friendly intentions. At the
time of their landing with this letter, they issued
a proclamation, requiring all Portuguese, of what
degree soever, to appear before them in eight
days, to the end that they might reHore public
tranquillity by a reconciliation of contending parties.
To this letter the great council determined
upon a very short answer, and ordered the two
counsellors De Wit and Moucheron, affixed by
by Mr. Warbeck, to refute the proclamation ; by
another, evincing that the disorders then subsiding
deduced their origin from the rebels and their adherents
only, whereby the condign of the council
in Brafd might be cleared up and justified to the
council of nineteen in Holland.

After these quibbling preparatives to action, the
Portuguese troops, lately landed from the Bahia,
marched towards Cape St* AuHin, where being
XV. U ’ ed


146 THE VOYAGES OF

ed by Kamaron Dias, and the inhabitants, they resolved
to besiege the fort Vander Duffen; which
design the great council being previously informed
of, they sent Mr. Bullaedrete and admiral Lich-that
to review the fortifications, and cause them
to be put in as defensible order as the circumstance
of things would admit; which commission they executed
with all possible diligence; but, as it afterwards
appeared, to very little purpose; for major
Hoogdxate, whose integrity the council greatly relied
on, sold the fort for the sum of eighteen thou-land
gilders, and the command of a regiment of
Dutch deserters. Thus a place of the utmod consequences
betrayed by a man, whoiometime before
appeared, in his secret discoveries to the council,
beyond the power of corruption ; a man who
derived his fortune entirely from the patronage
of the company ; yet he not only sold the fort, in
return for their favours, but conferred on them
the additional obligation of carrying over the whole
garrison to the enemy: and to aggravate his treachery,
if such matchless ingratitude could admit of
aggravation, several letters were discovered, which,
proved beyond doubt, that he had schemed his
villainy ever since the time he went envoy with Miy
V oerden to the Bahia. Wherefore we may judy.
conclude, that his discovery of the governors pro
pools to him was to lull suspicion, and by gaining
the confidence of the great council, to secure
the means of becoming a traitor to his country in
general, and to his friends in particular.

Colonel Haus, being apprehend that the Dutch
forces which were in camp mud hand in great
danger of being cut off by the enemy, proposed
their retreating into the Receif, as well for their
own safety as for the defence of that place : after
feme opposition, the colonel's proposal was agreed
to; and it was resolved, Aiigud the 15th, that

those








MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 147

those troops should retreat into the Receif with all
possible expedition ; captain Wiltfchut and fifty
men being ordered to remain as a protection to
the foraging parties.

In pursuance of this resolution, Haus went from
the Receif to command the retreat, but was so dilatory
that he let flip a night and a day without
doing any thing, which gave Andrew Vidal an opportunity
of coming up with him, whose troops
being much superior in number, put Haas to flight,
and forced him into the house of De Wit, where he
soon after surrendred at discretion. The misfortune
of this defeat appeared to be entirely owing'
to the negleCt or ignorance of Haus, either of
which was severely reproved by captain Wiltfchut,
who upon the colonel's afldng him what was best:
to be done, replied, “ Fir, as you never asked our
“ advice till things were in an almost irreparable
“ Rate, even do what you think best.”

Here the Portuguese cruelty shewed itself again ;
for tho quarter was given on capitulation to the
Dutch, yet such Brazilians as espoused their cause
were cut in pieces; which barbarity raised fncli
indignation and despair in their wives, that they
exercised a most unnatural fortitude, and dashed
out the brains of their children to prevent their
falling into the hands of the enemy.

All the Dutch, to the number of two hundred
and fifty, with colonel Haus, captains Blaar and
Liflry being made prisoners, Fernandes Vieira and
many inhabitants solicited Andrew Vidal to deliver
the said prisoners into their bands, in order, as it
is thought, to have sacrificed them to revenge ; but
Vidal had generosity enough to deny this" request,
and send the prisoners under a proper convoy to the
Bahia, where they were indifferently well treated,
and allowed two shillings and seven pence halfpenny
per week, with a measure of meal every ten
%■ - Ii 2 days.-






148 THE VOYAGES OF

days: however, tho the main body of Dutch, by
Vitals care, escaped assassination, yet such as by
sickness or any other accident were left behind, immediately
fell a prey to the mod insatiate cruelty.

The prisoners at the Bahia were indulged with
the liberty of the whole city, except the colonel and
the captains : these were confined to their lodgings,
and ordered not to speak with any person who
had not special leave given them for that purpose.

After the surrender of Cape St. Audit, the garrison
were carried to, and disarmed at St. Antonio;
among other prisoners were Isaac Zweers, afterwards
vice-admiral of Holland, Abraham Van Mil-linen,
and John Broekheufen, all of whom the
traitor Hoogdrate endeavoured to seduce into the
Portuguese service, but without effect, they being
men of unshaken integrity; men, who indeed of
accepting sordid bribes even in captivity, laboured
to serve their country: for, having observed that
an attack was to be made on the island of Hamarika,
they determined, if possible, to acquaint the
great council therewith ; for which purpose Isaac
Zweers, with great difficulty and large promises of
reward, prevailed on a Dutch trumpeter named
Flop to bear the intelligence ; and, led any accident
should prevent him from fulfilling his errand,
another messenger was sought out in the per
son of Peter Ritvaur, a baker, who was also dispatched
thither, a letter being at his own request
given him, to certify that he never served the Port
tuguefe.

The prisoners Zweers and Broekheufen having
received intimation that their lives were in danger,
they concluded some discovery had been made of
their secret couriers ; wherefore thinking it advisable
to drift their ground, they asked colonel Falkao’s
leave to go to the Algodais, a request which he immediately
granted them. However, they were shortly

after



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 149

after in the moll imminent danger ; for the baker
being intercepted by two Portuguese, was detained
on account of the certificate already mentioned,
and put to the torture, which made so much noise
among the inhabitants of St. Antonio de Cato,
that they infilled upon having Zweers and Brooks
brought from the Algodais that they might
be cut in pieces ; which threats would certainly
have been executed but for the interposition of captain
Ley.

The secret thus in one place narrowly escaped
entire discovery; for the baker, tho tortured, told
nothing material: yet was very near disclosed in another
; the trumpeters wife having told some of
her acquaintance, that her husband was gone to
the Receif, though lire had received repeated
charges to say he was gone quite a different
way. However, as a secret mull work its way out
of a female breath, Ike threw abide caution; but
finding her error, shewed, by Handing the torture
without any farther discovery, that a woman may
have resolution enough to bear any pain but that
of keeping a secret.

Major Hoogftrate being of opinion, that it was
dangerous to keep the Dutch longer in Pernambu-
ko, the prisoners were all sent to the Algodais,
where they were severally asked to serve his Portus
guess majesty, such as refused being told that they
would be sent to the Bahia, a very wearisome journey
over-land. Zweers and Broekheufen being ask
ed, answered as before with a truly noble reflux
tion, that they would sooner die than take up arms
against their country ; whereupon they were carried
with other prisoners to Pojuka, where they
had but just arrived when Zweers was ordered back
to Cape St. Austin, where he was put to the rack,
to extort confession from him concerning the trump
peter's journey to the Receif: however, he had

Id 3 suffices


THE VOYAGES OF

sufficient resolution to withstand the torture, and
defeat their expeditions of a discovery ; whereupon,
after five weeks imprisonment, he was sent to
the Bahia, where Mr. Broekheufen and the rest of
the Dutch prisoners arrived on the 28th day of November,
after a most tedious and fatiguing journey.


During the time of their residence at the Bahia,
Zweers and Broekheufen intercepted a letter from
Cooperate, concerning several material transactions,
which being discovered, they were immediately canto
a loathsome dungeon where they underwent
particular hardship, being aloe Carved to death;
yet, after many calamities they were at hae sent
to Portugal, from whence they took flip for Holland.


The defeat of colonel Hans already mentioned,
put the council and all the inhabitants of the Receif
into so Wrong a conversation, that they fancied
the rebels just at their gates; wherefore every
thought was turned upon defence : Peter Bas was
appointed commander in chief of the Receif, admiral
Lichthart had the conduct of the artillery, and
Moucheron was nominated commander of Matrices
town.

Notwithstanding these repeated adds of hostilities,
Andrew Vidal again wrote to the council, observing,
that he had the Wronged inclination to maintain the
peace, but that several circumstances concurred to
justify the measures he had taken : to which the
council peremptorily replied, that they esteemed,
on manifest proofs, not only his declarations eva-eve,
but also those of governor Silva; therefore
proceed againE his proceedings, and required
him, if he really had any regard to treaty, to retire
with his troops to the Bahia.

After the defeat of Haus, it was judged advisable
to endeavour at removing the garrisons from

the


MR. JOHN MI EUH OFF. 151

the forts in Rio St. Francisco, and Sergippe de
Rey, where it was impossible for them to do any
confiderable service to the Receif. When the council
of war had given their approbation of this shep,
two barks and a flip were ordered to Rio Francisco,
but being interrupted in their expedition by a Portuguese
vessel, full of armed men, the council was
obliged to send a yacht and three barks more to
reinforce them, captain William Lambartz being appointed
commodore, who returned to the Receif
October ill, where he gave an account of his expedition
to the following import, viz. That three
days before his arrival, the sort of Rio St. Francis
co had, after a siege of twenty-fix days, for want
of provisions and wood, surrendered ; that the enemy
had taken such measures as must inevitably put
Sergippe into their hands ; and had alfomade themselves
mailers of Fort Dos AfFagados, where Mr.
Bullaellrete was made prisoner ; in which terrible
situation of affairs, he thought it moil prudent for
him to return to the Receif, not crowned Wuh success,
but as the messenger of very disagreeable
news.

By the articles of capitulation the garrisons of
Rio St. Francisco, Sergippe and Porto Calvo were
to be sent to the Receif; but, in contradiction thereto,
were carried as prisoners to the Bahia. Several
of the soldiers dreading so tedious a march, entered
into the Portuguese service, sixty-four of w hom,
with captain Nicholas Nicholson at their head, softly
after deserted to the Dutch ; which accident so
enraged the Portuguese, that they put all who remained
amongst them to death, and slaughtered also
many of the Dutch inhabitants.

The success of the rebels spiriting up the male-contents
of Parayba, they took arms against the government
; however, by the wisdom and vigilance
of Mr* Linge, who had hitherto almost miracle

4 lousy






152 THE VOYAGE S OF

loudly kept them quiet; their designs were rendered
ineffectual, when finding that force was not likely
to prevail, they had again recourse to artifice, and
made a proposal of nineteen thousand gilders to
the governor ; but he convinced them Hoogflrate’s
principles were not universal, by causing the messenger
to be hanged.

The council, in order to gain as much additional
strength as possible, sent two deputies to the
chiefs of the Tapoyers, represent ting to them the
necessity of their joining forces with the Dutch for
mutual defence; and issued a proclamation at the
same time, offering pardon to all such as had defer
ted or entered into the Portuguese service, on
condition they would return, Hoogflrate and such
like traitors being excepted.

CHAP. VIII.

The rebels and Portuguese block up the Peace 'if; attack
the Dutch near Hamarika , but are reputed: the
Dutch rent them again: a very beautiful woman
made prisoner : Gaspar Gonzales , a spy in the For -
tugueje interest , made prisoner: designs to burn the
Dutch fleet: cruelties and proceedings of Ka mar on ;
Jacob Rabbi treacherously murdered: Colonel Gars
man put under an arrest: state of affairs between
the Dutch and Portuguese in Europe : captain Lam -
hart killed ; John Vieira d’ Pile go as accused of treason
, convicted and punished: the Receif in great
distress.

T H E rebels having, in' conjunction with the
portuguese, blocked up all the avenues leading
to the Receif, seemed determined to reduce it
by famine; but finding matters too well prepared
against them, they resolved to proceed against Hama

rik‘%>


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 153

maria, whither accordingly they dispatched the
greater part of their troops, with all possible expedition
; and having attacked the Dutch forces on
a hill near the city, they forced them to retreat into
their entrenchment near the church ; upon which
they made three vigorous assaults, being so often
repulsed with very confiderable loss : Kamaron and
Hoogftrate were both wounded, and in consequence
of this defeat were obliged to quit the island.

The great council being informed that the Port
tuguefe had been encouraged to attack Hamarika,
by promises of assistance from some secret enemies,
thought it necessary to remove captain Shutter,
with his company, whom they replaced with the men
under captain Lambartz’s command, making the
said Lambartz commander in chief of all the forces
there : about the same time the council received letters
from Andrew Vidal concerning a cartel for the
exchange of prisoners ; and proposing that such of
the Portuguese inhabitants as were prisoners should
be released for a reasonable ransom, which the council
would not agree to.

The enemy being disappointed in their hopes of
gaining Parayba by treachery, renewed their design
of starving the garrison of the Receif into capitulation
; however, the Tapoyers in Rio Grande
being too powerful for the Portuguese, made that
country fur nidi supplies to the Rmceif, which odca-
> honed the rebels to send out several parties by way
of prevention, but they were so unsuccessful as to
be obliged to retreat to Parayba.

By the deposition of captain Nicholson, whom
we have already mentioned, the eight companies
of Dutch who had entered themselves in the Portus
guess service under Hoogffrate’s command, amounted
to the number of two hundred and fifty-seven
men variously armed : the troops fentfrom the Bahia
he numbered at seven hundred; and besides

H 5 these






154 THE VOYAGES OF

these he observed that there were about three hundred
and forty vagrants of different nations.

On the 2d of November, letters came from Mr.
Linge in Parayba, to the great council, informing
them that Vidal had entered that captainfhip at the
head of two hundred men, and that Kamaron had
strongly solicited his relation Peter Potti to revolt
with his Brazilians : however, that solicitation
proved vain, as Potti and his party remained firm
in their allegiance ; of which they gave the council
an additional proof, by sending all letters of the enemy
to them unopened to the Receif, which with
other instances of sincerity placed them beyond suspicion.


November the 14th, intelligence was received
that a party of three hundred Dutch, in conjunction
with force Brazilians, had, after a very smart engagement,
defeated eight hundred of the enemies
troops, of whom many fell; which success so encouraged
the Brazilians that they over-ran the flat
country, and meeting with several Portuguese, put
them all to the sword, except a virgin of very particular
beauty, whose charms had so much influence
even upon enraged barbarians, that they used
no farther violence than bringing her prisoner to
the sort of Parayba.

Shortly after this, a detachment of three hundred
and sixty men were ordered to Kunhao, to attack the
enemy that were come to Rio Grande from Parayba ;
but they being informed thereof retired to a retrenchment
among some bogs, and gave the Dutch so warm
a reception that they were obliged to retire with
some loss to the castle of Keulen, as well to refresh,
as to prevent the Portuguese from penetrating farther
into the country.

The council being desirous to get some intelligence
concerning the naval force at the Bahia, sent
thither a flip to cruise oft the harbour, and take



prizes


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 155

prizes if file met with any, and at the same time
inform the Brafilian chiefs, that they had received
a large quantity of ammunition, besides intelligence''
from Holland, that a powerful fleet would shortly
sail for the protection of Dutch Brasil. This artifice
gave the Brazilians particular satisfaction, as they had
been somewhat intimidated by reports which the
Portuguese had very industriously propagated, that
no succours were or could be expected from Holland.


In the month of December, one Gaspar Gonzales
was taken prisoner in Hamarika, who upon examination
was found to be an agent for the Portus
guess, sent thither to persuade the Brazilians, that
the Dutch were privately selling their in ter eft in
the country; being determined to retire with their
effects to Holland, and leave their friends to the
mercy of an enraged enemy : this artful report had
so far the desired effect, as to cause great discontent
among the Brazilians, which was with great difficulty
palliated by Caspar Hothouse, who was appointed
their chief upon Liftry’s being made prim
finer.

Several unsuccessful attempts were made to burn
the Dutch fleet, and three hundred men were ordered
to attack Peter Potti in his entrenchments;
however, shortly after, Potti with one hundred and
fifty Brazilians engaged four hundred of the enemy 7 ,
whom he put to flight, twenty being killed, and
several wounded on their side, and but one upon
his.

The council having received advice from Mr*
Linge, that Kamaro.11, at the head of five hundred
well-appointed soldiers, had marched from Prays
to Rio Grande, with clefign to prevent supplies
provisions going from thence to the Dutch garrisons,
by which means he hoped to oblige them
to a speedy surrender, they, after mature deli
d liberation,




i 5 6 THE VOYAGES OF

liberation, resolved to draw one hundred and sixty
men from Hamarika, and the like number from ,
which, under the command of captain Welling
and lieutenant Freeman, were ordered to Rio
Grande, to oppose and frustrate the enemies designs
on that side.

Mr. Bas, a member of the great council, who was
sent to Parayba to consult with Mr. Linge about the
beb methods for defence, dispatched a letter from
the cable of Keulen in Rio Grande, wherein he
signified that a storm had prevented him from
landing his forces at Kunhao, where he hoped to
join captain Rhinebergh, but he had put them ashore
near Peering, during which time Kamaron having
forced his way thro the Matta, surprised many of
the inhabitants, all of whom, without paying any
regard to sex or age, he gave to the edge of the
sword. Then he robed his forces, confiding
of four hundred soldiers, as many Arabians, and
eighty Tapoyers, where he judged they would
bell answer the end of cutting off provisions from
the Dutch troops, who being a thousand Prong,
marched on the 23d of January to attack the enemy,
and force them, if possible, out of Rio Grande.
It being dubious, according to the circumstance of
things, whether the Portuguese would hazard a
battle, the council deliberated, whether upon their
retreating to Parayba it would be prudent to pursue
them thither, and endeavour at the recovery of
that captainfhip ; but this being seemed an enterprise
of too desperate a nature, was laid aside, and
orders were sent to Mr. Bas and the other commanding
officers, to aft with all possible circumspection
in the recovery of Rio Grande, without attempting
any thing farther.

According to letters from Mr. Bas at fort Keu¬
len, dated the 30th of January, captain Rhine
bergh had attacked the enemy hx several times,

and


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 157

and tho he had rather the word: of the action, nevertheless,
in consequence thereof, they retreated
to Parayba.

On the 4th of March, Mr. Bas, having returned
the forces to Mr. Linge which had been drawn
from Parayba some time before, arrived with five
hundred men in the Receif, and the following day
furnished the council with a journal of his expedition.


From the 9th to the 30th of March, frequent
skirmishes happened, without any remarkable advantage
on either side: the council was alarmed
with intelligence, that Kamaron had again entered
Rio Grande ; but colonel Garfman eased their fears,
by advice that the enemy had retreated without attempting
any thing material. Not many days after,
the council received information that Jacob Rabbi,
a mod industrious agent and sanguine friend to the
Portuguese in gaining the Tapoyers to their side,
was, at the indignation of colonel Garfman, treacherous
murdered, which ciixumdance gave considerable
uneasiness, as they knew not how much
mischief it might occasion; however, to view their
disapprobation of so illegal an acf, when colonel
Garfman returned to the Receif, they ordered him
to be arrested, and put prisoner aboard a drip called
the Hollandia.

Some seditious papers dispersed, to taint the minds
of the Dutch soldiers, were found and delivered to
the council, whereupon they issued a proclamation,
upbraiding such of their countrymen as had entered
into the enemy's service with treachery, and advising
them to return to their allegiance. They like-wife
published a copy of a letter, delivered by the
Portuguese ambassador at the Hague to the dates
general, from the king his mailer, with the dates
answer thereto, hoping, that as the king of Portugal
disowned the war, and governor Silva’s, meat$








THE VOYAGES OF

sures, the publication of the said letter would, in some
measure, open the eyes of the Portuguese inhabitants,
as it tended to prove their hopes of assistance
from Portugal, vain, as also to create divisions
between them and the Portuguese commanders.

By the disposition of the rebel forces and their
allies, provisions growing very scarce in the Receif;
several parties were sent out for supplies, but without
success. A flemish happened in Hamarika,
wherein sixteen Dutch were killed, and twenty-fix
wounded, captain Lambartz being among the latter.


By a letter to the council, on the 3d of May,
they received advice, that the Brazilians in Hama
ria had been prevailed upon, by the artifices of
the enemy, to refuse their duty; however, that
the interposition of Mr. Apicius, one of their minis
hers, had reconciled them to their former attachment,
and lulled to rest all inquietude for the pre
fen t. Provisions began now to grow so scarce, „
not only in the Receif, but also in Hamarika, ,
and Rio Grande, that fishing was thought a
very necessary expedient, and was therefore much
encouraged, Mr. Hamel and Mr. Bas giving orders
to buy up all the yarn that that could be got,
in order to make up nets. At this juncture a Port
tuguefe, who having committed man-daughter in
Angola, fled from thence to the Receif for shelter,
gave information against John Vieira d’Allegoas asa
traitor to the date ; upon which the said Vieira
was ordered into custody, and the Portuguese charged
him with delivering to his care, a parchment
inscribed with certain characters, and a box with
several other papers to be delivered to the enemy,
which parchment box and papers the Portuguese
produced in court; whereupon Vieira having denied
the charge, was put to the rack, yet dill remained
resolute in his denial, till the key of those

characters.







MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 159

characters on the parchment being found among
his papers, enabled a Jew to decipher them, when,
it appeared that Vieira had given the enemy an exact
account how matters were Situated in the Receif,
and also instructions how they might make
themselves mailers of it: tho he had withstood the
torture, yet this palpable discovery drew confection
from him of what the Portuguese had alledged ;
in consequence whereof he was put to death.

About the ill of June, the magazines were reduced
to so low an ebb, as to be provided with Stores
for a few weeks only; wherefore the bread was to
be distributed only in certain quantities, the members
of the great council themselves not being exempt
from the limitation; and, to prevent discontent
among the Soldiers, fix-pence was paid them instead
of a pound of meat, and they had in point
of bread a iganifell advantage ; for all persons whatever,
except them, were allowed only two pounds
per week, their portion being three.

The council having received information, that
Garfman had endeavoured, without their orders, to
lure the Tapoyers into Rio Grande, were under no
Small surprise at so imprudent a Step, as thereby
their Supplies of provision, at the moll very Scanty,
were much diminished; wherefore they immediately
took the necessary Heps to draw the Tapoyers
by fair means into their habitations. The prudent
conduct of the council had so happy an effect, that,
by the alliance of Rio Grande, the Receif was
tolerably furniShed till the arrival of Supplies from
Holland ; and it was generally supposed, that the
Said captainlhip would have furniShed necessaries to
the Southern garrisons sometime longer, had it not
been for the number of twelve hundred Brazilians,
who on being reduced to the utmost Traits in Ha-maria,
were ordered by the council to Rio Grande,
there to subsist upon what the country could afford
;





i 6 o THE VOYAGES OF

ford ; in consequence of this disposition, Ships were
sent to transport them from Hamarika to Rio Grande.

In such a Rate of exigence and perplexity, it is-not
to be wondered that many desperate and romantic
propositions Should be made and debated ;
however, prudence was not quite So effectually
disabled by distress, but that the council was enough
tempered with proper resolution, to wait the expected
Supplies from Hollands rather than hazard-all
upon any particular effort,

CHAP. IX.

The Portuguese , under Andrew Vidal , Jumrnon Ha
maria to surrender : a conspiracy detected: the inhabitants
ojthe Receif reduced to vast distress ; they
are relieved by succours from Holland : the enemy
retreats from Hamarika ; they are driven from the
pass of Barely, which is Strengthened by colonel
Schoppe : the old council resign in favour of other
members from Holland :■ letters between the new
council and the governor of Bahia : a very menacing
message sent by Fernandes Vieira : colonel Schoppe
attacks and reduces Rio St. Francisco : a party of
Dutch defeated near Rio St. Francisco y and several
cf their officers killed

H E enemy being informed, that the departure
of the Brazilians from Hamarika had
much weakened the garrisons, resolved to attack
that-island, and accordingly landed there to the
number of two thousand ; when Andrew Vidal and
Fernandes Vieira wrote a letter to Mr. Dortmund,
in terms complaiSant tho haughty ; Signifying that
they were willing to treat with him upon the rules
of war, and that they could not Suppose him So ignorant
of their Superior Strength, and the impossibility
of his refilling them to any end but certain

deffrudtioiq





MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 161

destruction, as to refine their proportion, to which
they required an answer the next day. This summons
induced Mr. Ormond to solicit the council
for immediate succours, which in reality they
were not able to send him, because they wanted
men much, but provisions more, at this very disagreeable
juncture, when misfortunes pressed hard
on every hand. Some gunners were conviCted of
having taken money to betray the sort of Orange*
for which treachery two of them were very justly
put to death, the rest being fortunate enough to
escape the merited punishment.

The circumstances to which the inhabitants and
garrison of the Receif were at laid reduced, makeup
a picture of digress amor beyond description,

surrounded not by generous, but implacable foes
without the city, attacked by famine arid all its dismal
consequences within ; despair hung over like a
cloud, while fainting nature sunk beneath the load
of misery; cats, dogs, and even carrion claimed
the greatest regard, and to meet with a Sufficiency
of either was esteemed happiness; some who had
basked in the sunshine of life, and indulged luxuriant
appetites with the most delicate productions,
were now glad of contending for such morsels as
the pooreR beggars would despise, and the brute
creation negleCt. In this melancholy Situation, without
prospect of relief, or what was to be done,
life upon such terms appeared to all unworthy of
care: and it was universally agreed, that to die in
an attempt for liberty and furnace was far preferable
to the calamitous Rate of Raving to death ;
that as they had Raid in expectation of supplies
till nature could hold out no longer, they could
not be deemed culpable for Setting their all upon a.
single caR. Wherefore they resolved, council and
all, to Sally out and true their success to that de
fair which urged them on; but ere this fatal resolve





162 THE VOYAGES OF

solve was put in execution, two vessels under Dutch
colours appeared in sight of the Receif. This happy
incident gave a respite to calamity, and straight
a gleam of joy appeared, which when the ships came
to anchor, and by a signal of three guns gave assurance
that they came from Holland, increased to
universal transport, insomuch that those who could
not for want of strength walk, crawled to the harbour,
where they received, the comfortable news 1
that the whole convoy might be hourly expelled.
This providential supply was not only of the mod:
happy consequence, in regard of the famine at the
Receif, but also proved of singular service in the
affair of Hamarika ; for the rebels no sooner heard
of it, than they quitted the island, very justly foreseeing
that their retreat might be cut off by means
of the ships lately arrived from Holland; so that
adversity seemed now to move a little off, and despair
made way for the fir ft comfort of life, hope.

The fleet equipped in Holland lor the protection,
of the Receif, met with more misfortunes than were
ever crouded into the same space of time; from
their setting out, the elements seemed to conspire
against them, elfe the relief would have been much
more timely. Bankers, admiral of Zealand had the
command of all the ships, 2nd colonel Sigismund
Shoppe, a very experienced officer, of the land-forces.


Besides the military persons embarked on board of
this squadron, there came five new members of the
great council to relieve the old ones. All the ships
being arrived, and intelligence received that the
enemy intended to erect a for-t on the Bast of Baretta,
it was unanimously agreed, that the said pass,
as of the utmost consequence, should be seized and
fortified against them; to which end colonel Shoppe,
with all the forces he could immediately muster,
marched thither, ordering the materials for the intended




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 163

tended fortifications to follow him the next tide:
on his arrival having with ease displaced the enemy*
he took possession of the house of Baretta.

The new members of the great council being all
arrived at the Receif, Mr. Henry Hamel, Mr. Bui-
laeflrete, and Mr. Bas ordered a general assembly,
civil and military, to be called; at which the old
members resigned the reins of government to those
appointed their successors, returning the several
orders of people thanks for their Ready attachment
to them while governors, and recommending perseverance
in the same towards the new council,
who from that time transacted all public affairs ;
however, the old members were complimented
-with a request, that they would give their a Alliance
in all matters of moment.

A general review being thought necessary, the
same was appointed, and proper persons sent for
that purpose to the several garrisoned places, and
at the same time a fresh proportion of pardon was
published and sent to the enemy, with a letter to
the Portuguese commanders of those troops which
came from the Bahia, desiring them once again to
withdraw their forces. To this an answer came
Bon the Portuguese colonel, which being read in
the great council, appeared to be little more thana
collection of falsities and palpable evasions ; their
Strength was greatly enlarged upon in it, as well
as in letters from Fernandes Vieira, directed to fe
vernal Dutch merchants, which arch-rebel wrote
in the Rile of a conqueror, remonstrating to the
said merchants, that it was impossible for the Dutch
power, in that part of the world to Rand again A
him, especially as providence seemed to combat on
his side, of "which he enumerated many proofs,
as he Riled them : to this he added moR severe
threats again any of the inhabitants who should
appear in arms again him ; and complained heat


6 4 THE VOYAGES OF

wily, that an officer who had been sent with letters
to the great council, was examined in a RniRer manner
by them, and abused for not giving satisfactory
answers : “ But, continues he, if they dare to appear
in the field, I'll try whether their swords
“ ate as nimble as their tongues, and teach them
44 what respect is due to the messengers of those
4,4 persons who have supreme command here.”

On the 14th of September, another flip of war
f rom Holland arrived in the Receif, after a passage
of fourteen weeks : about the same time the enemy
caused several insolent pamphlets to be published,
wherein they haughtily proposed terms of grace to
all such as would seek their protect ion.

Colonel Shoppe having made several attacks upon
the enemy, mostly unsuccessful ones, the Dutch
forces were so much diminished thereby, that they
were not in a condition to cope with the Portuguese
near the Receif, which made the council resolve
to attempt the recovery of Rio St. Francisco,
the execution of which enterprise was committed
to the management of colonel Henderson, who fulfilled
his orders without much difficulty, as he met
with very slight opposition.

On the 30th of November, the Rates strained a
confiderable loss in the death of admiral Lichthart,
which was occa honed by drinking a large quantity
of cold water, after having overheated himself. Mr*
Nieuhoff being ordered to Rio St. Francisco, went
there accordingly, and well nigh escaped drowning,
being overset in a boat. Some parties being sent out,
scoured the country, and brought in seven hundred
oxen, and three hundred calves. Shortly after, a
Re happened in the soldiers quarters, by which
means many of them loR all their cloaths, which
loss however was repaired by the order of the colonel
: this accident might, had it happened by

eight*






MR, JOHN NIEUHOFF. 165

night, have done confiderable mischief, especially
as it was supposed an a£f of treachery.

Intelligence being brought to the Dutch quarters,
that the enemy began to appear in a confiderable
body, five companies were dispatched to attack
them, and seize all the cattle that could be
found ; the first advice received of this party was
that they were unfortunately closed in by the enemy,
in such a manner that it was hardly possible
for one to escape. This intelligence occasioned
great consternation ; to increase which, news arrived,
that the said party was entirely routed,
the captains Shut, Cousin, and La Montagne,
with a great number of the men being killed ; which
mishap was entirely attributed to the rashness of the
Dutch troops, who, contrary to colonel Henderson
orders, upon firing threw down their muskets,
rushed upon the enemy sword in hand,
and were thereby drawn into an ambuscade; some
that fled from their polls were marked out for
death, but having gone thro all the terrors of preparation
for that awful period, were pardoned. Captain
Gyfeling’s lieutenant however met with the due
reward of cowardice ; for being sent to the Receif,
he there had his sword broke over his head, and
was rendered incapable of ever serving the company
again, tho faithful service for seven preceding
years pleaded in his favour. To many other disagreeable
circumstances, which at this juncture concurred
in perplexing the company's affairs, we
may add the revolt of the Tapoyers, who quitted
the Dutch interest on account of Jacob Rabbits
murder ; nor could the banishment of the colonel,
and confiscation of his goods, prevail on them to
continue their friendship.

Several propositions being made for the annoyance
of the enemy, the council deliberated upon
them, and finding that they admitted of very material



166 THE VOYAGES OF

trial objections, laid them aside: it had, among
others, been suggested, that refuting quarters to
the enemy might prove serviceable; a question
that was also determined in the negative, because
more likely to occasion a revolt of those who then
remained quiet, than to answer the end proposed.

On the 30 th of December, intelligence was received,
that a party of two hundred men, under
the command of one colonel Rebellion, was arrived
in an Land near Rio Francisco from the Bahia,
and that a reinforcement was expected shortly, not
only from thence, but also from the Target; at the
same time advice was brought that some of the
Dutch troops had attacked a body of the enemy,
without any farther advantage than the seizure of
their arms, and cloaths ; however, shortly after, the
enemy returned with a much stronger body, and
put the Dutch to slight, one hundred and fifty
were (lain, among whom was one captain, and five
subaltern officers were taken prisoners.

A fresh consultation being held concerning the

o o

assembling a large body of troops to undertake
fomeadfion of consequence, and a draught of troops
fromParayba being proposed for that purpose, the
council thought such proceeding muff lay them
open to considerable danger ; therefore the proposition
was rejected; and from advice, shortly after
received, it appeared a prudent resolution, for
the enemy entering Parayba with a powerful party,
threatened ruin upon that side, which they began
by the daughter of fifty Dutch and Brazilians, several
of that number being women and children ;
however, finding the country in a more defensible
fate than was expected, they retreated from thence
in a few days, after they had entered it.

On the 22d of January, the enemy began to
batter a wooden fort, near the Baretta, which, tho*
inconsiderable in itself, and hardly worth defends
kg.




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 16;

ing, was, by the advice of Mr. Hamel, reinforced
with five companies, and in hope that the enemy
finding the reduction of this sort difficult, might
thereby be intimidated from undertaking any thing
farther on that side : in consequence of a vigorous
defence, the siege was railed January the 24th,
the repulse being esteemed the more happy by the
Dutch, as they at that time laboured under many
terrible inconveniences, and among the rest a desertion,
which going beyond private men, reached
to the officers.

The Receif being closely blocked up on the land
side, by the enemy, a scheme was laid to conquer
it by treachery ; for which purpose a certain Portuguese
invited all the principal commanders to a
grand entertainment, he intended to give on account
of his daughters wedding, during which
scene of merriment the enemy were to have surprised
the city; but this design being discovered
by some Portuguese and Jews, was rendered abortive.
However, the siege was carried on,, and the
towui battered in such a dreadful manner, that the
inhabitants were so terrified as to seek for shelter
in caves, while the wounded, dying, and dead persons
preferred spectacles of horror on every side.
Among many tragical incidents, one to which Mr.
NieuhofFwas an eye-witness, claimed particular notice
and pity; that of a very beautiful young lady,
admiral Lichthart’s niece, being deprived of both
her legs by a cannon bullet, which at the same
time killed a friend of hers, a new married woman
who flood by her. During this time colonel Schoppe
had made himself mailer of Tapering, which he
destroyed. However, the strength of the Dutch
began to be so much diminished by many unsuccessful
encounters, and there being no prospect of
timely succours, a general attack was resolved upon
; which resolution was opposed by colonel

Schoppe,


168 THE VOYAGES OF

Schoppe, and several other officers ; however, their
opinion availed not, for a general sally was concluded
on, the command of which was given to
colonel Brink, as Schoppe’s wounds, received in a
late encounter, were not as yet cured.

The Dutch forces having marched out, attacked
the enemy with great fury, and pressed them
hard for some time; but they, flushed with success
and their superior numbers, repulsed the
Dutch, of whom in the sight and slight eleven
hundred were slain, and among these colonel Brink
and almost every other officer of note; there
were also nineteen pair of colours lost, with all the
cannon and ammunition the Dutch had brought
into the field. This general defeat put an end to
all contention in the field, and all remaining care
was appropriated to the defence of the Receif,
which, however, without supplies from Holland,
could not be long maintained. To make disagreeable
circumstances still worse, divisions arose among
the members of the government, the great council
ascribing the late defeat to the misconduct of the
council of war ; the members of which latter alledging,
that the former were in fault, the soldiers being
ill paid and ill provided : in short, the Rate of affairs
looked so bad on every side, and wore so much the
appearance of growing still worse, that Mr. Nieu-
hoff solicited a passport for his return to Holland,
and with a good deal of difficulty obtained it,
which he had no sooner done than he prepared
every thing necessary for his voyage home.

Having thus run thro v the proposed recapitulation
of the material transactions during Mr. Nieu-
hosts residence in Brasil, it will not be amiss, before
we proceed with him on his voyage, to give a
general view of the inhabitants, animals, and various
products of that country.


CHAP.





MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 169


CHAP. X.

Of the division and different classes of the inhabitants
of Brasil: desperate action of a negroes; the political
cruelty of the Portuguese while possessed of this
country : the manners of the people in general: their
arms ; their notions of the Supreme Being ; their
knowledge of futurity , &c. of their Skill in for eery ;
their usage of the sick , and respect to the dead : the
Tapoyers described: two of them engage and conquer
a bull.


T HE inhabitants of Brasil, properly divided,
were formed into two classes, viz. free-born
subjects, and (laves: the free inhabitants were made
up of Dutch, Portuguese, and Brazilians; of these
the Portuguese were much the mod: numerous, and
the richest: the Dutch merchants, selling their good*
at a vast profit, would no doubt have acquired
large fortunes, had they not sold upon credit to the
Portuguese, who, as it appears from what has been
already related, were resolved never to pay them.

Among those free inhabitants of the Dutch Bra-fill,
who were not in the company's service, certain
Jews claimed the foremost: place, as they carried
on a more extensive trade than any other set of
people, insomuch that they purchased several ,
and raised (lately edifices for their own
habitations in the Receif: these people would no
doubt have been a great (Strengthening to Dutch
Brasil had they kept their traffick within reasonable
bounds.

The fia-ives were partly negroes, and partly natives,
the latter being either prisoners of war
bought in Maranhaon ; or in the country of the
Tapoyers, where the custom was either to sell the
Vol. IV. I captives











170 THE VOYAGES OF

captives as slaves, or put them to death ; all other
Brazilians enjoying under the Dutch government
the sweets of perfect liberty.

In the time of NieuhofF there were near forty
thousand negroes employed in the sugar-mills, between
Rio Grande and St. Francisco, mod: of which
were brought from the kingdoms of Congo, Angola,
and Guinea : they had a black shining skin,
flat noses, thick lips, and short curled hair, those
being their marks of beauty. The price of these
negroes rose and fell according to the circumstance
of things; when trade flourished one of them
would sell for seventy, eighty, or a hundred pieces
of eight, sometimes the price stretched to fourteen
or fifteen hundred gilders for such as appeared to
be more intelligent, and more capable of service
than the general run : but, when trade fell into decay,
forty pieces of eight was esteemed a confiderable
price.

These negroes are very dextrous at swimming and
diving, the latter of which they are so amazingly
expert at, that they will bring up a piece of eight
from the bottom in deep water ; they are also good
fishermen, and earn a considerable deal of money
that way. Mr. NieuhofF observes, that while hew
as in Brasil, a certain negro, very famous at filling,
being sold three fever al times, took such treatment
so ill, that one day when he went out to sea,
he tied a (lone to one of his legs, and so leaping
into the water, drowned himself.

The negroes, as has been found on many occasions,
are of a very vindictive nature, and will run
any length to revenge ill usage. Some of them,
when old, have long grey beards, and hair of the
same colour.

The natives of Brasil were divided into four fe
vernal nations; three of which spoke the same language,
differing only in dialed!: but the fourth,

named





MR. JOHN NIEUHOF F. i n

named the Tapoyers, were subdivided into several
drffrifts, all which differed both in language and
manners.

Those Brazilians who resided among the Dutch
and Portuguese, were middle-sized, of a strong ro-buff
make, with black eyes, wide mouths, black
curled hair, and flat noses, which latter circumstance
is here deemed so great a beauty, that parents
squeeze their childrens noses flat while they are
young. They paint their bodies with various colours
: their women are likewise of a middle stature,
well-proportioned, and not ill-featured ; they have
black hair,, but are not born black; however, the
excessive heat of the fun gives them a tawny colour.
The Brazilians arrive early at maturity, and
live to great ages, which muss be in some measure
owing to the climate, as several Europeans who dwell
there live to an hundred or an hundred and twenty
years. There are very few cripples or deformed
people to be met among the Brazilians, a circumstance.
which can be only thus accounted for : they never
swathed any part of their children but the feet.

Before the Dutch got footing in Brasil, the natives
were absolutely enslaved by the Portuguese,
who looked upon the extirpation of them as a
master-piece of policy ; a design they put so effectually
in execution, that the captainfliip of Rio Grande,
which in the year 1545, could have turned out
one hundred thousand fighting-men, in 1645 could
hardly produce more than three hundred, The
cruelty of these taskmasters occasioned mortal hatred
between the Portuguese and them, tho it is
to be observed, that this extraordinary decrease of
the latter was in part owing to war, and some epidemical
distempers which broke out among them :
the final! remainder of them live in villages assigned
them, where they had their plantations, their dwell
king-places being made up of wood-work, covered

I 2 with












127 THE voyage of

with palm-tree leaves. The Brazilians in general
had among them a great spirit of liberty, especially
the Tapoyers : they live among each other in tolerable
harmony, except when drunkenness, their
chief vice, occasions some irregularities. They are
very fond of dancing, naturally very indolent, and
will sleep twenty four hours together ; nor would
they dir then if different calls of nature did not
rouse them : they keep fires in their huts night and
day, by day to prepare their victuals, and by night
to send off the cold air, v which is keener among
them than in mod; parts of Europe, because the
days and nights are here of an equal length, almond
thro the whole year.

The inland Brazilians of both sexes go quite naked
; but nearer the seashore they wear different
sorts of covering ; some wear only Shirts of linen or
calico ; others, being more polite, chuse to dress in
the European manner. The wives always follow
their husbands, even to war : the man carries nothing
but his arms, the woman Supplying the place
of a fumpter-horfe; for die carries not only provisions,
but such furniture as is judged necessary,
a child, or children, also a parrot or an ape in one
hand, and a dog with a firing in the other. The
hedges or open fields are their only places of accommodation,
and friendly dreams their only Supply
of drink, except what they get Sometimes in the
hollow of a tree, called karrageata. Towards
night they always hang their hammocks on trees,
ok elfe fallen them to poles, and make a Sort of defence
from the rain, with palm-tree leaves. When
at home, the husband generally goes abroad in the
morning with his bow and arrows to kill Some

O

birds or beads, or goes to dfh, while the wife either
employs her time in working at the plantation,
or attends her husband to carry what game he may
kill. The wild beads are caught and killed in various






MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 173

pious manners, some by arrows, others by pitfalls,
&c. &c.

The Brazilians are not much burdened with furniture
; their hammocks or ins, as they call them,
are the chief part of it; these are made of cotton,
like net-work, six or seven feet long, and four broad:
the Tapoyers make their hammocks twelve or fourteen
feet long, so as to contain four or six persons;
their cans, cups and mugs are made of calabashes,
one of which holds thirty or thirty-five quarts, but
they generally divide them. The poorer sort make
Rones into the shape of knives, but the better sort
use real ones, purchased from the Europeans.

The arms of the Brazilians were only bows, arrows,
and clubs ; their bows are made of a very
hard wood, called virapariba ; the firings are made
of twilled cotton, and their darts are made of wild
cane with the points hardened, or armed with fish
teeth, called jacru: some have several points,
others but one.

They reckon up their age by laying by a chef-nut
for every year, and they begin the computation
of their years with the rise of a certain far called
Take, or the Rain Star, which appears in the
month of May ; they also call the year by the same
name. Some of the inland Brazilians scarce know
any thing of religion, or a Supreme Being: they
have a slight knowledge of the general deluge, and
believe that the whole race of mankind were extirpated
thereby, except one man and his filler,
which latter was pregnant before the deluge, and
these by degrees repeopled the-world. That they
have no notion of a God is evinced by their not
having any term for such a being, unless the word
Tuba, which finishes some what most excellent. The
thunder they Rile tubakununga, which may be interpreted,
a noise made by the supreme excellency :
they are unacquainted with any particular Rate of

I 3 futurity,



174 THE VOYAGES OF

futurity, but have a tradition among them, that
the souls do not die with the bodies, but are
translated to pleasant regions and vales, placed, as
they say, behind mountains, where they are to enjoy
great pleasure, as dancing, singing, See, this
hate of felicity is however confined to such brave
men and women as have, during their lives, done
meritorious actions ; such as killing and devouring
many of their enemies: but such as have been idle
are supposed to be tortured by devils, whom they
distinguish by various names.

Tho so ignorant of any form of religion, or particular
object of worship, they have persons among
them whom they call paye or priests, who are used
as prophetic instructors, and carefully consulted
in all material transactions, especially those of war.
They are so horridly afraid of spirits, to which
they give many different names, that some have
been killed by the shock of an imaginary apparition
; however, they do not pay any devotion to
the supposed spirits, except now and then that particular
persons pretend to appease their wrath by
certain presents fastened to flakes set in the ground
for that purpose. A nation among the Brazilians
called Potiguaras, are accounted so well skilled in
sorcery, that they can bewitch their enemies even
to death.

Those Brazilians who lived among the Dutch
and Portuguese, did in some measure follow the
dilates of Christianity, but seldom shewed any zeal
for them unless such as were instructed in their
tender years; some Dutch ministers and Portuguese
priests were tolerably successful in making
converts, and several of the natives were brought
to read and write by the Dutch schoolmasters.

Many distempers common in Europe are entirely
unknown in Brasil: such as are natural to their climate,
and arise from their manner of living, they

cure




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. ' 17$

cure with fnnple medicines, holding all compounds
in utter contempt; they take great pains to cure
sickness, but if, after a certain process, the patient
continues ill, he is to be knocked on the head,
for they deem it better to die at once, than linger
in pain to the last gasp of natural decay; when
dead, they exercise the same cruelty on the remains
of their friends, as they do upon their foes, tho
from a different motive; for they tear them to
pieces, and eat them with keen appetites.

Erastian women are vastly fruitful, and have
very easy labours, in fomuch, that a woman, immediately
after delivery, goes to the next river and
there purifies herself; while the husband goes to
bed, and, for the firs twenty-four hours, is nursed
with all the care and ceremony used with a lying-in
woman among Europeans : mothers lament the
death of their children in excessive howling for
three or four days; and when friends have been
long parted, they meet with open arms, tears, and
all possible marks of affection; the Brazilians, tho
said to be hereditary men eaters, by mingling with
the Dutch and Portuguese, have for the moll part
laid aside that branch of barbarity; becoming as
affable and humane as some European notions.

The Tapoyers are of much larger stature, and
greater strength of body'than the other Brazilians :
they are of a dark brown colour, with black hair,
which hangs down over their shoulders, being only
shaved on the forehead parallel to the ears ; the
rest of their bodies they keep clear of hair, even
their eye-brows are plucked *, their kings and chiefs
are distinguished from the vulgar, by their hair
and quality; they are great admirers of long
nails.

Royalty is distinguished by hair cut into the
form of a crown, and long thumb-nails, which
latter is an ornament entirely appropriated to the

I 4 kings;


176 THE VOYAGES OF

kings; the princes of the blood and grandees being
allowed long nails on their fingers, but none
on their thumbs.

These people having great strength and agility,
prince Maurice ordered two of them to attack a
wild bull, which they did accordingly, and, after
having galled him a good deal with arrows, one of
them leaping on his back, seized him by the horns,
and threw him down ; upon which, being seconded
by his comrade, the beast was killed ; when
they roasted him under ground, with a fire above
him as their custom is, and then feasted not only
themselves, but several other Tapoyers, who were
present at the combat as spectators.

The Tapoyers of both sexes, and all ranks from
the king to the peasant, go quite naked to the privities,
which they very carefully conceal; the
men wear a kind of ornament on their heads, made
of the feathers of a bird called guard, from which
some long tail feathers of the bird ararat hang down
on their shoulders behind : sometimes they only tie
a firing of cotton round their heads, in which they
.flick party-coloured feathers •, they have also cloaks
made of cotton thread, framed like a net, and ornamented
with feathers of different birds and colours
; which lie together almofflike fish scales : on
the inside of these cloaks, there is a kind of cap or
hood to cover the heads ; so that all together, they
cloath the wearer aimofl from the knees upwards :
but these may properly be called holliday suits ;
tho sometimes they wear them to send off rain,
which purpose they answer tolerably w ell.

Upon the death of a father or mother, the Ta
powers tear all their hair off their heads: they have
holes in their ears, lips, and cheeks, from which
are hung pieces of wood, or certain ornamental
stones; their bodies are painted all over with
brown-coloured juice, squeezed from the apple

janipapa •


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 177

janipapa; besides which, with maffick or wild
honey, they Hick feathers of all colours upon their
bodies, so that, at force distance, they referable
large birds,: they wear round their legs also certain
bracelets made of the fruit of aguay, and
shoes made of the bark kuragua. Some of the
Tapoyers have no bows and arrows, but throw
darts ; their clubs are made of very hard wood,
broad at the top and full of very sharp teeth or
bones ; they have three sorts of wind instruments,
one of human bones, another of horn, and a third
of cane. The Tapoyers are not esteemed so good
soldiers as the other Brazilians, as, in the time of
danger, they are much more inclined to exert
agility than strength, and indeed they run with
such astonishing swiftness, that tis hard to overtake
them ; they are peculiarly indolent, for rather
than take any trouble of cultivation, they live upon
the wild produces of nature: they eat human
flesh; and, tis remarkable, that if a woman miscarried,
she immediately eats the child, alledging it
cannot have a better grave than the belly from
whence it came.

The Tapoyers, like the Arabians, lead a vagrant
life, with this difference, that they keep within particular
bounds, changing their habitations according
to the different seasons of the year: they are
great sportsmen, and use their arrows so expertly
as to bring down birds flying when ever they
please.

When a woman has conceived, she abstains
from her husband till after her delivery; nor is it
usual to cohabit while she gives suck: if a married
woman is known to have unlawful commerce with
another man, her husband may turn her away;
but if he catches them in the aft of adultery, he
may kill them both. There arefome other customs
in 1 ejard to w omen before marriage, the relation

X 5 of





I 7 S THE VOYAGES OF

of which, tho it might satisfy curiosity, mull: offend
modesty, therefore we think it better to pass
on at once from the inhabitants of Brasil, to the
animals, and other matters which may be worth observation.



CHAP. XL

Of the various kinds of birds , beasts , &c. to be found

in Broad.

T HE first animal peculiar to Brasil, which
comes in view, is the iron pig, called by the
Brazilians kuandu ; it is about the size of an ape,
its body being entirely covered with spikes of three
or four fingers length, instead of hair; which
spikes-upon being irritated, this animal can dart
forth as a porcupine does its quills, so as to wound,
nay often kill a man : its eyes are round, flaring,
.and like carbuncles in colour; it has long whiskers
like a cat, feet resembling an ape, but with four
fingers only, the place tor the thumb being vacant;
and its fore legs are lefsthan the hinder ones. This
creature usually deeps by day, and goes in search
of prey by night, loves fowl vafliy, and climbs up
trees, tho slowly; the flesh of this creature,
which is of no disagreeable flavour, the inhabitants
eat roasted.

The sluggish, so called from its lazy pace,
which cannot in fifteen days make the-extent of a
closes throw, is about the size of a fox, its forelegs
being about seven fingers long to the feet ;
the hinder ones but six ; the head round ; its mouth ,
which bears a constant foam, snail and round. ; its
teeth little and blunt; its nose black, high, and
smooth ; the eyes small, black, and heavy ; its body
is covered over with alii-coloured hair. The reason

of






MR. JOHN NI E U HOFF. i 7p

of its remarkable slowness, is because the limbs areas
it were disjointed in the middle. It dwells upon
trees, and lives upon their leaves, without ever
tailing any drink; and is so much afraid of rain,
that upon the approach thereof, it hides itself.
Tho the limbs of this animal are weak, yet its
claws will take such an hold as is not easily unloosed;
the noise it makes, as well as that of the
iron pig, is somewhat like the mewing of a cat.

Of the pifmire eaters, named so from their food,
there are two sorts, the great and the final 1; the
former, which is about the bigness of a middling
dog, has a round head, long knout, and no teeth.
To catch the pifmires, this animal lays its tongue,
which is twenty-five, sometimes thirty inches long,
upon a dunghill, till his prey settle upon it, which
they have no sooner done, than he swallows them.
The small one is about the bigness of a Erastian
fox ; on the fore feet it has four crooked claws;
two broad black lids run along the back; it is a
very savage creature, grasps every thing with its
paws, and upon being ft ruck with a slick, will sit
upright like a bear, and take hold of it with its
mouth : it sleeps all day long with its head from
its fore paws under its neck, the night being the
time for it to prey; when it drinks, the water immediately
spouts thro its nostrils.

The creature called the shield hog, or armadillo,
because it is covered with scales like a shield, resembles
our hogs in bigness and shape : it has on the back
fe-even partitions, between each of which, appears a
dark brown skin ; the head is perfectly like that of
other hogs, and its nose sharp, with which it grubs
up earth; its eyes are small, and lie deep in the head ;
it has a small sharp tongue, and short dark brown
ears, without hair or scales ; the belly, the bread,
and legs, are likewise without scales : this animal
is generally very fat, it lives upon roots, and all

I 6 kinds


180 THE VOYAGES OF

kinds of carrion, drinks a vast deal; and, tho an
land is its residence, yet it chiefly loves marshy
places : it is caught by sending a small dog after it,
who barks and gives notice where it has sheltered
itself under ground, when, by digging, it is found ;
the flesh is good to eat.

In Brasil, there is a kind of baths, the flee of
a crow, which are very fierce and bite violently,
with very sharp teeth; they build in hollow trees,
and old walls ; there are also in that country, a
kind of wild geese, much like those in Europe,
only somewhat larger, and their feathers vary more
in colour; they are water birds, and generally
prove both fleshy and well tailed.

The bill bird, is about the size of a wood
pigeon ; it has a saffron coloured crop about
the neck, of three or four fingers in compass ;
its feathers, which are yellow on the bread,
and black on all other parts, are tipped with red ;
its bill is the length of the palm of a hand, and
very deep ; it is yellow without, and red within,
being rendered manageable by its lightness.

The Brazilians have a bird among them called
kiokoi, which appears to be a kind of crane, is
about the size of our forks, and very pleasing to
fight. Its bill, which is of a greenish yellow,
measures about six fingers in length, is straight
hand sharp ; the neck is fifteen fingers long, the
body ten, and the tail five ; its legs, which measure
about fourteen fingers in length, are covered
about half way with feathers, the neck and throat
are white, the head black, mixed with ash colour ;
on the undermost part of the neck, there are long
white feathers fit for a plume ; the flesh of this
bird is good and of an agreeable flavour ; there is
a smaller kind of these birds about the size of a
duck, the flesh of which is also eatable, and some
what like that of a crane.


The


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. iSt

The barn bird is peculiarly odd in its appearance,
having a bill near seven feet and a half long, and a
crown of green and white feathers upon its head ;
one half of which, as well as one half the neck,
has no feathers: it is about the size of a stork, '
and proves tolerable food when skinned and
boiled.

Brafd produces many more sorts of wild fowl,
which vary but little from those in Europe, one small
bird excepted, namely the hummingbird; which,
tho but as big as one joint of a finger, makes a very
loud noise, and has feathers of so variable a hue,
that turn the bird which way you please, it shews of
a different colour ; wherefore the Brafilian women
make one at each ear supply the place of pendants.

The rivers and lakes, as well as the sea coast of
Brafd, are extremely well docked with variety of
fish ; there are also in this country several sorts of
serpents, among the number of which, we find
one called gekko, from its constant cry ; the ding
of this creature proves mortal, unless the part
wounded is cut away, or burned with a red hot
iron ; the blood is of so poisonous a nature, that
the javanese, for gekkos are plenty in the ide of
Java, dip their arrows in it to render them more
mortal; and frequently tie one of these animals by
a dring to the dealing, that, by irritation, they may
cause it to vomit forth a yellowish liquor, which
they catch in pots, and then coagulate in the fun ;
the poisonous quality of this creature is particularly
evinced by the dreadful effects from an outward
application of its urine, which, upon touching the
skin, causes a blackness and a gangrene; the cur
cum-root, which we call turmeric, is deemed by the
Brafdians the mod powerful remedy for this poison.

The rattle-snake, so named from a noise which
its tail makes, moves with swiftness almond equal to
flight; the mitre of its body is about the thickness





£%?. THE VOYAGES OF

nefs of a mans arm at the elbow, and tapers both
towards the head and tail; it is of a very poisonous
nature : however, as it may be heard at a
confiderable distance, there is no great danger.
The chief remedy used by the Brazilians against the
venom of this and moll other serpents, is a plaster
made from serpents heads bruised and mixed with
falling spittle.

The guaku or libya is a serpent of monstrous
size, some of them being eighteen, twenty-four,
nay thirty feet long, and about the thickness of a
man ; by the Portuguese, it is called the roe-buck
serpent, because they frequently swallow deers of
that kind, or indeed of any other that come in
their way ; it is not so venomous as other serpents,
and the shells is by some deemed eatable; it is a
very voracious serpent, and will leap out of the
hedges upon men or beasts. Besides those which
we have already mentioned, there are many other
kinds of serpents reilly venomous, and differing
only in point of size or colour.

The fenembi or land crocodile is a creature frequently
met in Brasil, seldom exceeding five feet in
length ; it can live two or three months without
food, and affords flesh as eatable and as white as a
rabbit; in its head are found certain stones, which,
given by two drams at a time, prove an infallible
remedy for the gravel.

There are lizards and scorpions in Brasil, the
former of which are sometimes four feet in
length ; these, the negroes eat with safety, tho
when alive their sling is venomous; as is also that of
the scorpions, which in this country grow to a
very large size. There are also many sorts of pif-miles
here, for the moil part of a very different
nature and construction from those in Europe, being
vastly larger and more destructive to the fruits






MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. i 83

of the earth. Various kinds of bees are to be met
with in Brasil, which serve the same purpose as
ours, that of making honey, tho with this difference,
that they are not made, as among us, domestic
infests, by being kept in hives ; but fix their
residence in hollow trees, from whence the effect
of their industry is extracted by different methods.

Among other sorts of spiders, there is one of a
remarkable large size, generally found in dunghills
or the cavities of hollow trees, which weave
cobwebs like other spiders; if provoked, they
wound with a sling so small, as to be scarcely
visible, yet so venomous, that it raises a blueish
swelling, which is very painful, and dangerous even
to death, if not prevented by a timely antidote.

Brasil produces plenty of wild beads, among
the rest leopards and tygers; the latter extremely
fierce, in so much that they frequently devour
men as well as beads : there is also another savage
-creature, called jack over sea, amazingly nimble*
and peculiarly furious, tearing, without diminution,
every thing weaker than itself,. to pieces.

Having thus given a general view of those animals
which are peculiar to Brasil, it will not be
amiss to take notice of some roots and trees produced
there. The shrub Mandioka, to which the
Brazilians are indebted for great part of their sustenance,
claims attention find : the shrub itself is
molly called manilla or mandiiba; there are several
kinds, but the root is always named mandioka,
which root dried, powdered, and afterwards baked
in the manner of European bread, serves as
the common food of the inhabitants of America:
this root somewhat resembles our parfiiip ; it will
only grow in dry soil, and is, when ripe, about
two or three feet in length, and the thickness of a
mans arm; each shrub will produce three, four,
and sometimes twenty roots, which roots will not

keep


i8 4 THE VOYAGES OF

keep above three days out of the ground, wherefore
they are always dried and converted into
meal; the root mandioka, being pressed, yields
a certain juice which furnishes a sediment that serves
instead of pale, and mixed with sugar-rice and
orange flower-water, makes a very agreeable conserve
: there are several other methods of preparing
this root for use, which, however, as they
tend to the same purpose, we shall not particularize
; there is one great peculiarity appertaining
to the mandioka, which is, that eaten fresh, it
proves a mortal poison to the human species, tho
roasted, it is not of the least: ill consequence ; and
it is also a worthy remark, that tho all kinds of
beads will eat and grow fat upon this root, yet the
juice of it proves pernicious to them as well as to
men. About three bushels of the meal made of
these roots, is deemed sufficient to serve a hardworking
man for a month ; and a piece of ground
planted with them, will produce four times the
quantity that the same space would do, if sown with
wheat.

The sensitive plant is also found in Brafll, and
the fruit called carabines, the rinds of which
are so thick, that when dried they wall supply the
places of cups, printers, &c. and what may be
deemed surprizing is, that they vary greatly in
shape, some being round, and others long ; the
trees blossom and bear a fruit once a month, which
is tolerably agreeable to the taste, but being too
astringent, proves very unwholesome.

There is a tree which the Brafllians call imam
that having no peculiar or remarkable quality,
we only mention by name, and proceed to
observe another named pavo kaatinga, which
much resembles cane in its appearance, and bears a
fruit on the top of its flem, not unlike a pineapple

j



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. iB?

apple ; the stalk being chewed, draws rheum from
the head, and dissolves the Rone in the bladder.

All over Brasil, but chiefly in the isle of Ha-maria,
grows a tree called katjou, which bears
two different sorts of blossom and fruit; the white
blossoms produce a soft spungy kind of apple,
from whence the Brafllians make a sort of finer,
which, seasoned with sugar, has much the relish of
Rhenish wine, and is a very heady liquor, tho not
unwholsome, as it passes off quickly.

Chili lata, or Brasil pepper, grows on knotty
stalks of about five or six feet high; the rind,
which is dark green, is divided by white rings,
from whence shoot forth small branches of about
four inches in length, which bear small white flows
hers, and these produce the pepper seed.

The sugar canes, called by the Brafllians vita,
are of two sorts, the one being distinguished by
small, the other by large leaves; the latter, which
is esteemed the best, sprouts up a long stern about
the thickness of a child's arm : these canes are propagated
by planting small ships, which, if they are
put into a good soil and kept free from weeds, will
in six months produce a brown seed at the top,
and then they are fit to be cut; if they stand longer,
their juice diminishes and turns sour : low
grounds are much better for sugar canes than hills,
and they thrive particularly where the soil in which
they are planted is frequently overflowed by some
adjacent river. The sugar produced from these
canes, is not extracted without much labour, but
being a moll profitable commodity, well repays
the labourers toil ; Dutch Brasil, is computed to
yield two hundred or two hundred and fifty thousand
chests annually.


CHAP,





186 THE VOYAGES OF


CHAP. XII.


Nimhoff's account of Brasil concluded .



R A Scil wood, well known in Europe, from


11 its utility in dying, is cut from trees of two
or three fathom thick; there is nothing very remarkable
in these trees, but as they constitute part
of the trade of the country, they deserve to be mentioned,
as does also the tree named tiinbo, which,
on account of its flexible nature, is converted into
hoops, at the same time that its bark supplies the
place of hemp.

Among many sorts of palm trees to be found in
Brafll, that named pindar claims the preference
as faired and mod beautiful ; there is another
fort, called by the Portuguese tamar or date, from
its bearing a fruit similar to that of the date tree :
neither the fruit or timber of this tree is any thing
confiderable ; and the pindar is for little more
than ornament; however, indeed of bark, it is covered
with a white rough excrescence, which contains
a sulphureous substance that the Brazilians,
by preparation, convert into a wrong lee, and bears
a sort of fruit which is eatable.

There are a great number of coco trees in Bra
fil, which generally rise very crooked, grow to the
thickness of fourteen or fifteen feet, and reach
fifty feet in heighth ; it is worthy remark, that these
trees have no branches, but, in dead thereof, have
fifteen or sixteen leaves round their tops, which
stretch to the enormous length of fifteen or six
teen feet.

Having thus sketched out a general view of the
animal and vegetable products of Brasil, we shall
now return to Mr. Nieuhoff, whom we left prepared
for his return to Holland, in pursuance of


which*



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 187

which, July the 23d, 1649, embarked on board
the Union, captain Albert Jantz, and reached, without
any material intervening occurrence, the bland
of Corfu, which is one of the nine islands called
by the Dutch, Fleming islands; the large: of
which, named Terra, is about sixteen leagues in
circumference; it is fruitful, tho rocky, and maintains
a confiderable quantity of oxen; there is a
spring in it of so petrifying a quality, that it turns
wood into krone ; besides which, there are several
springs so hot, that they are capable of boiling
eggs; this bland is very liable to earthquakes.

From the isle Corfu, Mr. NieuhofF proceeded
forward on his voyage, and reached Fluffmgen
safely, September the 19th, where he passed five
days of refreshment, and then continued his journey
to his native country, where he had, to recompence
the dangers and fatigues of his voyage to
Brasil, the unspeakable comfort of meeting his
parents and many friends in good health.

As many disputes arose concerning the loss of
Dutch Brasil, some malcontents charging it to
the mismanagement, or, indeed, treachery of the
great council, when messieurs Hamel Bullaeflrete,
and Bas, were members thereof, an enquiry into
the circumstances of that affair may prove satisfactory;
by exculpating those unjustly charged
with guilt, and fixing the censure where it ought
to lie.

Among many reasons assigned for the revolt of
the Portuguese, that of recovering their liberty
seems to be the principal, as indeed it is the mod:
natural; where language, manners, and, above all,
religion, to which the Portuguese are remarkable
bigots, differ so widely, it is not to be wondered,
there should be secret antipathies, which antipathies
excite the people to destroy the causes of
them; add to this, the weakness of Dutch Brasil,

which






188 THE VOYAGES OF

which alone was enough to create a spirit of revolt \
so that, upon afiriff examination, it will be found
that the great council were more deficient in power
than wisdom, integrity, or diligence. It is a first
principle in policy, that a conquered country must
be maintained by military power, unless the Portuguese
and Spanifh method of extirpating the natives,
by massacre, is thought preferable; how
then was it possible to defend Dutch Brasil again!!
a multitude of bosom foes, when the garrisons
were not sufficient for keeping in awe the malcontents
of a fettled government, much less those of
a conquered country, where there were not only
enslaved natives, but also vast numbers of a rival
nation, who viewed the government with jealous
eyes, and watched for opportunities of disturbing
the public tranquillity.

On the conquest of Brasil by the Dutch, the
Portuguese were left in quiet possession of their sugar
mills and plantations, by which the Dutch
were prevented from getting such footing in the
country as they might have done; there were alio
such heavy taxes imposed, that the Dutch subjects
being poorer than the Portuguese, could not bear
them; whereas, had there been true policy exerted,
such immunities should have been granted
as would have put the Dutch upon as respectable,
if not a preferable footing to the Portuguese ; besides,
the military establishment was so very ill
supported, that tho count Maurice, in the year
1641, produced an estimate, which proved the
necessity of maintaining at lead seven thousand
men to defend the garrisoned places in that country,
the fates of Holland, after the conclusion of a ten
years truce with Portugal, would allow no more
than two thousand seven hundred.

And tho repeated remonstrances were made
against so impolitic a reduction, yet the fates resolved






MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 189

solved upon it; and when intestine commotions,
spirited by foreign assistance, threw affairs into a
molt deplorable situation, such trifling and tedious
succours were sent from Holland, that things
grew worse and worse every day, till, by the year
1754, all the fortified places fell into the hands
of the Portuguese, which, by the peace concluded
in 1660, they were confirmed in the possession of;
at which time, among other articles, the three following
were stipulated.

First, that in lieu of Dutch Brasil, the Portus
guess should pay the Dutch eighty turns of gold, or
the value thereof in commodities, or by a mortgage
on the Portuguese customs: secondly, that
the places on each side should remain in the quiet
possession of those in whose hands they were at
that time : and lazily, that a free trade should be
allowed to the Dutch in Portugal, Africa, and
Brasil, without being liable to any duties, but
such as were imposed on the native Portuguese.


Mr. .




1 ;

Mr. John Nieuhoff’s VOYAGE
to the East-indies.


CHAP. I.

if dr. Nienhojf embarks for the EaJl'Indies ; arrives
at the islands of St. Vincent and St. Anthony : sone
account of these places ; also of the soil, productions
, and inhabitants of the Cape of Good Hope; together
with its beasts 5 birds , i and shoes : of the
vast cupidity of the natives: their marriage cere -
monies : our author goes to Java 5 thence to China 9
and returns to Europe .

/% August the 23d, 1653, Mr. NieuhofF
embarked at Amsterdam for the East Inn
J&. dies, on board the Calf, Cornelius Just
mailer.

October the 10th, they came in view of the
island of St. Vincent, in the bay of which they
came to anchor about noon, and provided themselves
with fresh water and goats, as well as with
plenty of oranges, lemons, pumpkins, and other
sorts of fruit, which they purchased at very trifling
rates.

Stringent is one of the fait islands ; it is about
five leagues in circumference,, and fubiedf to the
Portuguese. The inhabitants, who live in a moll
miserable manner, have no women among them, are
negroes sent thither from several neighbouring colonies
to catch wild goats, the Reins of which they
send to Portugal, where they fell to advantage.


Another



THE VOYAGES, &c, 191

Another of these islands is called St. Anthony,
and abounds with fruits of all sorts, as well as
plenty of wild fowl. They sailed from this place
on the 26th, and on the 9th of March got into
the Table bay, in the Cape of Good Hope, about
noon, the wind blowing briskly from the southwest:
it was well they arrived here so soon, on account
of the plenty of medicines and refreshments
of all sorts, for which the Cape of Good Hope is
remarkable, above forty of their men lying sick,
besides eight that they had lost upon the voyage.
The fields about the Cape, a little way up the
country, are covered with lillies and tulips. Things
in general are extremely dear here, arrack selling
for fix-pence a quartern, brandy for a Chilling, and
a saleable water melon at no less than half a
crown. The Hottentots, who are sometimes very
shy of trafficking with Grangers, exchange their
cattle for tobacco-pipes, bits of copper, and other
toys.

Olives, apricots, oranges, and peaches thrive
here very well: the air in general is wholsome,
temperate and clear ; and tho they have some ice
in June and July, which is their winter, yet it
never comes to any great thickness.

The woods are full of partridges, pheasants,
geese, quails, crows, ducks, teal, water-snipes,
wild peacocks, hawks, ravens, magpies, fp arrows,
black and white cranes, and ostriches of a prodigious
size; they are grey, and never fly, but expand
their wings when they run, which they do
as sass as a horse in full speed.

The oxen here are fat, and some that have no
horns are above a foot and a half higher than any
to be found in Europe.

The sea-cow is found in great plenty upon the
coast ; it is as large as a heifer, without hair .or
horns, having a short tail and thick legs lice an

elephant:



x 9 z THE voyages of

elephant : its eyes are round, its ears long, and
Its teeth very large ; the flesh of it will keep when
faked, and eats something like coarse Dutch beef.

The iron pig, which is a native of the Cape, is
a very curious sort of animal: its skin is luck
round with spikes, which; by contracting, it can
shoot out again its enemies ; and a dead lion
was once found in the woods with one of these
spikes truck thro him, which was undoubtedly
the cause of his death.

The sheep of the Cape have no wool, but are
covered with hair like goats; and their tails, which
are a lump of fat, often weigh above twenty
pounds.

The jackall is said to be one of the mok quick-scented
animals in the world, and so very voracious
that it will dig ten feet deep after a dead
carcase : it is supposed often to supply the lion with
prey.

The inland country is full of tygers, lions,
wolves, leopards, rhinoceros, and a creature
not unlike an elephant ; but there being a reward
offered for the head of every wild beak that is
brought to the Dutch governor, there are few now
to be found on the seashore.

Whales are sometimes found in the Table bay ;
but they are very lean ; and among their fifties,
to mok of the species of which we are rangers,
is the foal, the Hottentot fish, something like a
cod ; and the torpedo, or cramp-fish, so called
from its communicating that disorder to those
whom it chances to touch while it is alive.

We have observed elsewhere, that the natives
of the Cape, who are called Hottentots from
their hammering, are the nakiek people in the
world ; and the mothers always cut out the right
vehicle of the male child as soon as tis born, in
order to make him the swifter of foot. They are

for





MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 193

for the mold part so very Rapid, that .if you (hut
them up in a house, with the windows close,
and the door latched, they will have no notion of
effecting an escape, being in this respect inferior to
beads, which generally endeavour to free themselves
from bondage. Their attachment to their
own country is surprising ; for it has been known
that a Hottentot, after his return from Europe,
where he has lived for many years, has rejected his
manners with his cloaths, and returned to his foot
and his garbage.

The maids are distinguished from the married
women, by having green twigs tied about their
legs; and these on the wedding-day are removed
for dried guts.

When a girl is married to a man, the first joint
of her little finger is cut off and buried, after
having been some time tied to her husbands
middle finger.

They are divided into many different nations,
the moll cunning of which are those which inhabit
near the cape : they have no fixed habitation,
but wander about like the Tartars and Arabs,
carrying with them their wives and children.

No place in the world is more subjects to Storms
than tie cape ; but ships are sufficiently sheltered
from their violence by the several commodious
bays wherewith nature has provided it.

March the 13th, they quitted the cape, fleering
their course westward, and on the 24th of
May anchored to the north-northeast of the
i'le of Java, where several boats came off to them
with provisions and refreshments ; they left this
place on the 26th ; and on the 30th, about four
in the afternoon arrived off the city of Batavia,
where our author went ashore, and was soon after
sent in the train of an embassy from the governor
of Batavia to China, in quality of a Reward. Ass
IV. K ter.






i 9 4 THE VOYAGES OF

ter his return from thence he made a voyage home
in a (hip called the Pearl, and arrived in Amsterdam
on the 6th of July, 1658.

CHAP. II.

Our author reimbarksfor Batavia , as supercargo in
the Dutch East India company's fervid ; he is sent
from thence to Amboina ; that if and' s fuhjedion ,
situation , commodities , but particularly the clove-tree
described: he arrives at 'Malacca ; a description
of that city ; it surrenders to the Portuguese ,
<70 d /j taken from then hy the Dutch ; /Vi trade ,
modifies , inhabitants , #/" // 6 <? night people : the

divisions of the kingdom of Malacca : long nails
a mark of high birth : mistresses let out by the months
and very faithful: an account of the queen of Pa tan ;
her vaji magnificence: the slips crezv in danger of
being poisoned : the cooks roguery discovered : they
arrive at Singula : the queen of Golconda visits
Mahomet s tomb \ her attendants described herleai n-
ing and reception by the Dutch factors at Wingur¬
la : our author comes to the city of Gammon : water
scarce here ; heat intolerable : how to preserve Ships
from its intrusion .

D December the 22d, 1658, Mr. John NieuhofF
was ordered by the East India company to
embark on board a flip called the Arnheim, of
five hundred tons, carrying forty guns and four
hundred and thirty men. They came to anchor
before the city of Batavia, July the 18th, 1659,
where Mr. NieuhofF having delivered up his charge
as supercargo, was ordered on board the Henrietta
Louisa, bound for Amboina, some of the
company's goods being delivered to his care.

Amboina







j n




■'T«


'* ' * • ■






| *’ JI 1 A H Q


r


■


y.>.




i' v

'' -■ .

. «-■ . v‘



/ V ’ ' -

- . • ► , t .- ^ s , ., .

"' ■,/■ '

'4' ' \


/

- ~ m ■




■

'0 ' V-.vU •? ■



V-,

J> V- A . ;


iv4V’ V


-iw*

esse ' svW • *

•

■i


■ 1,' ■ , • 0 V.

5

Vir v-,^. -

•




h YMLftt»yv .y.




-,i . . /> . ■■■ .

•'.; f*s


• ■ ■. • - >

■ W: ■




■■A.
















*4

« '■ - - .

>>?:•). ,dP{r 3- • /i ; f ft: V ^ .

:. * . ; ■ • -V

- '

• • raCijA .








O Zo7i<jihide p‘ojn Notion


pin I


Hill III


iiiiiini insult


S Middle ton


Savage
Found i


icon


clutches


Man Cal,*IX


C, Styuf/ramtmi


'lack-Pt

Cat'dirwlsT s


Baketx?

I&o'Leti •?


]put

ctfvelH.


n/is-B

&oflander&S=—-
Bay of
E iki iriaiix:


he CuZbdi

i e § 4


A. Map s \Jj

o£ Sr

^ K

[xnDSorNrs Bay
and. i
S traits !


ti Rupert













































































































































MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 195

Amboina is by some counted one of the Molucca
islands ; it lies in three degrees of south latitude,
twenty-four leagues from the hie of Banda ;
is about twenty-four leagues in circumference*
and abounds with cloves, which were first planted
there in the year 1636. The inhabitants are entirely
devoted to the service of the East India company,
and are divided into villages, each of which*
is obliged to furnish its annual quota of spice. The
air of the island is but indifferent, and insects the
body with a scrophulous disorder, not unlike the
French pox, which is easily cured in the first
stage, but is found very stubborn if allowed to
proceed to any height.

Amboina is fertile in mullet, tobacco, coco, potatoes,
oranges, lemons, citron, sugar, bamboos,
&c. The nutmegs are not so good here as in the
other islands : its moil: remarkable commodity is
the clove, the tree of which has a pyramidical form,
with a leaf like a laurel, growing on a long final!
Hock, the flocks chaffering together ; and near the
extremities of the branches they are of a purple
colour. The clove blossom is at first white, then
turns green, then red, and last of all, a dark yellow.
They thrive belt in dry weather, and the
season of gathering them is from September to February.
It is a vulgar error to say, that the cloves
attract the moisture of the earth in such a manner
that nothing will grow within its shade ; for the barrenness
the ground round them is to be attributed
to the great care of the owners, who grub up every
thing near them, that the nourishment may not
be carried away by any other channel.

Part of the island of Amboina is under the jurisdiction
of the Gaff India company, and part of
it under that of the king of Ternate.

There was a large crocodile killed, during our
authors residence, at the port Victoria, which place

K 2. belongs











i 9 6 THE VOYAGES OF

belongs to the Dutch : it had lived a great while
in the ditch, destroying the governors poultry,
and once made an attack upon his secretary, who
narrowly escaped with his life.

The inhabitants were formerly pagans and cannibals,
but at present they are Mahometanss and Christians.
The men are brave, but deceitful, and very
lazy, with thin beards and large whiskers. Their
weapons are bows, arrows, half-pikes, javelins,
scimitar, and a kind of poisoned arrow, the
wound whereof is mortal, and these they blow
thro hollow pipes. They are dextrous in managing
fire-arms, and have no covering but a piece of
fluff wrapped round their buttocks and belly.

The women are extremely lascivious, and very
fond of Europeans : if their gallants prove false,
they are sure to poison them ; but, as the dose that
they administer produces a lingring death, she who
gives it is generally possessed of an antidote which
can avert its consequences. Our author left this
place on the 3d of May, and arrived at Batavia
on the 29th of the same month. He was soon after
dispatched on a voyage to the Pifcadore islands,
from whence he went to the island of Teywan,
which place he quitted on the 11 th of December,
and came on the 30th of the same month to the city
of Malacca, the capital of a kingdom of the same
name, which was formerly supposed to be joined
to the island of Sumatra, by a small neck of land
that is at present lost in the ocean. This city lies
in two degrees and thirty minutes of north latitude;
it is populous, large, and close-built, some
of the houses being of sone, but moll of them of
strong bamboo-cane. The streets are broad and
band feme, planted on each side with trees.

Malacca surrendered to the Portuguese, under
the command of general Albuquerque in the year







M R. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 197

1510, after an affiliate refinance, the king being
obliged to fly to the woods, where he died. It
was re-taken from the Portuguese by the Dutch in
the year 1640, after a flee of six months, and in
it was found a vas booty.

It is a place of prodigious great trad, in geld,
precious Rones, and all the rarities of the each
The harbour is one of the sin eft in the Indies, and
always crouded with ships from China, Japan, Siam,
Bengal, Coromandel, Banda, Java, Sumatra, &c*
The coin of this place was formerly only tin, being
of great weight, but little value; but at present
both gold and fiver is current here, apiece of
eight palling for two gilders and eleven rivers.

They weigh goods by the great and small bar ;
the great bar consists of two hundred matters, each
kattee being twenty-fix tails, of thirty-eight and
a half Portuguese ounces, and each table one ounce
and an half. A small bar contains two hundred
matters, each kattee weighing twenty-two tails.

The natives of Malacca are tawny, with long
black hair, large eyes, and flat noses; they go
naked, except a piece of fuss wrapped about their
middle. The women are extremely proud, very
fond of gold bracelets and ear-rings, as well as of
precious ones and fine folks.

There is a species of men in Malacca, who can
see only in the dark, being blind all day, which
they generally spend in sleeping, never riling till fin-let.
They are well proportioned, and in complexion
something like the Europeans; their feet
are bent inward, and their hair of a yellowish
hue, is extremely long, that of the women hanging
down to their hips.

The vas tract of land called Malacca or Malaya,
is the mos southern of all the Leaf Indies,
comprehending, befdesmany other kingdoms, those

K 3 of


THE VOYAGES OF


of Pahorn, Pera, Queda, Jor, Ligoor, Tan a (Ten,
jor is situated at the Freights of Malacca, and
abounds with lemons, ananas, bananas, citrons as
large as a mans head, and other Indian fruits.
Here is also great Pore of pepper, cinnamon,
buffaloes, monkies, flags, and sea-monsters. The
Inhabitants are brave, but lascivious, proud, and
lying, civil and deceitful: their complexions are
light blue ; their noses are crooked, and their teeth
are black: they wear their nails extremely long,
and paint them yellow ; length of nails is among
them a mark of quality. Their richer sort of people
wear poniards set with precious Pones; and Ratisbon
king of Jor, who came on board the Dutch
fleet in 1608, had a poignard by his side set with
sapphires and diamonds that were valued at fifty
thousand gilders. He had three gold chains about
his neck, which were also curiously adorned with


precious Pones.


In the kingdom of Pagan are found nutmegs,
mace, pepper, hogs Pones, which are a good antidote
to expel poison, hampshire, and eaglewvood,


font, above all, gold and diamonds.

The capital city, which takes its name from the
kingdom, is situated about a league from the seashore,
and is inhabited only by the nobility, the
poorer sort living in the suburbs, It is not large,
and round it runs a wall four fathoms high, made
of the trunks of trees joined one within the other
very Wrongly and compactly. The king's palace is
of wood; the other houses are of reed and Draw :
the Greets are enclosed on each side with hedges
of reeds, planted with coco; so that the place
looks rather like a garden than a city.

The kingdom of Botany is temperate and fruitful,
abounding with, rice and fruits of all sorts,
as well as pepper. They plough their ground
with oxen, and their woods are Pocked with flags,

wild


MR. JOHN N IE U HOFF. pigg

wild boars, which do a great deal of mischief, buffaloes,
elephants, tygers, apes, and monkeys. They
have also geese and ducks, and a species of turtle
doves, the feathers of which are finely variegated.
The sea abounds with cray-fish, oysters, tortoise,
&c, and in the hills are very valuable mines.

The natives of Botany are of an ash-coloured
complexion, but well-shaped, proud, and ostentatious
: they are however civil in conversation, arid
no great soldiers. They are extremely jealous ;
and tho adultery is frequent among them, the women
being extremely addicted to venery, yet it is
punished with death when found out, the criminals
nearest relation, tho it should be a father, be-’
ing by the laws obliged to supply the place of the
executioner ; yet fornication is thought little of.

The nobility keep many female slaves, whom.
- they let out to hire as paramour, at so much a
month; and nothing is commoner than for stranger
to have his choice of young women, who will
make a bargain to live with him during his slay
amongst: them, for certain wages. This woman, by
day, does all the necessary houshold offices, and
serves as a bed-fellow by night; but then a man
mull be careful to have no commerce with any
other woman ; and he may assuredly rely upon the
fidelity of her whom he hires. The natives are,
for the moil part, lazy and idle, the traffic being
entirely in the hands of the Chinese. The chief
riches of the natives consists in lands and slaves,
and the foreign merchants supply them with all
sorts of rich commodities.

Their cloths come from Bengal; they have
from Java, hampshire, (laves, wax, and
bezoar fines from Borneo ; rice, fait, lead, and
gold from Siam ; porcelain, iron, copper, and all
sorts of white and yellow silks from China, scimitar
from Japan, &c.

K 4


From


aoo THE VOYAGES OF

From Satan the people of Labor get rice, fait,
fowl, and oxen: those of Malacca are thence also
supplied with the bezoar-shone : to Borneo they
send iron, Peel, and copper; to China, pepper,
camphire,.fandal-wood,both white and yellow, skins,
ivory, fkc. and to Japan, tingled, lilk,&c. The country
is so populous as to be able to bring one hundred
and eighty thousand armed men into the field.
It is tributary to the king of Siam, and pays yearly
home fine deaths, velvets, scarlet-cloths, and a curious
artificial flower, richly wrought with gold.

This kingdom was governed in the year 1602
by a woman, who tho* a widow, was then but fifteen
years of age; her name was Prate, and fire
kept in her court a vaP number of ladies of honour,
none of whom she permitted to marry, tho*
file connived at their amorous intrigues. When
the went abroad, which was very seldom, she had
a cavalcade of two thousand noblemen, all dressed
in the liveries of her deceased spouse.

Thirty leagues to the north of Malacca is an
Bland called Finding, with two good bays, wherein
fiaips may have very safe anchorage.

This Bland is destitute of inhabitants, but has
plenty of tortoises and oypers, many of which are
seen to hang to the leaves of trees. Here are plenty
of water-fowl, and a kind of bird, called by the
Dutch flies-bird, the head of which is without
any feathers.

Our author Paid upon this island four days ; after
which he coated along in sight of the land of
Sumatra.

In their voyage they had like to have been poisoned
by eating a sea-bream, which appeared to the
eye as a very fine fish ; but were relieved by vomits
and other medicines: two cats who had eat the
bones of this fish died soon after ; and the cook,
who could not help licking his fingers, narrowly

escaped


MR. JOHN N 1 EUH 0 FF. 201

escaped with his life : tho before he was taken ill,
being accused on the appearance of short commons,
of having secreted some part of the bream, he solemnly
denied it.

This happened on the 14th of January, 1662 t
February the 3d they palled by Pontegarle, after
having assisted admiral Vandermaeder in taking possession
of the fortress of Palepatnam, which to their
great surprise they found abandoned, and they continued
their voyage.

March the 5th, they palmed by the Bar of Goa,
which was then blocked up by a Dutch fleet. On
the 6th they came to anchor in the road of Singula,
where they found the Bantam yachts waiting
to transport the queen of Golconda from thence
to Mocha, in her way to Medina, where fne proposed
visiting the tomb of Mahomet. Her guards,
which had conducted her eighty leagues, confided
of four thousand cavalry, with long coats of mail,
the shoulders whereof were embroidered with serpents
heads, like the antient Romans ; they had
bright polished helmets, were armed with bows
and arrows, wore long beards, and were mounted
on very fine Persian horses.

On each side of every man of quality that attended
her was a footman holding the bridle; the
queen and all her ladies were carried in dole litters,
concealed from public view, and they were
preceded by several camels covered with rich furniture,
on one whereof was mounted a kettle-drum
mer who performed with great dexterity.

The Dutch commodore, and the director of the
Gaff India company met her two leagues from the
town, in which, while she Raid, she dictated to
her secretaries in several different languages. There
was a magnificent cent erected for her 011 the seashore,
the passage from whence to the shallop, which
was to carry her on board her yacht was covered

K 5 with




aoi THE VOYAGES OF

with calico. It was supposed the captain of the
yacht became a mahometan; for he never returned
from the voyage, the flip being brought back by
the boatswain.

Wingurle lies in fifteen degrees of north latitude
; it is a large village on the seashore of the
kingdom of Golconda, where the Dutch East India
company have a factory; and most ships bound to
Persia are obliged to touch in their passage for
wood and water.

From ‘Wingurle our author proceeded to Gameron,
a celebrated city of Persia, where he arrived
on the 6th of April.

It is the only sea-port of Persia, lying on a flat
seashore, in twenty-seven degrees of north latitude,
just as you enter the Persian gulph ; and close toit
is a barren sandy mountain, which produces neither
grass nor tree.

Gameron rose out of the ruins of the celebrated
city of Ormus : it is defended by three stone bastions
on each side, whereon are mounted many pieces
of iron cannon. It is very weakly fortified on the
land-fide, as they fear no enemy from that quarter.
The houses stand very close together, being
each crowned with a very high turret, full of air
holes, wherein the inhabitants sheep in winter: they
are built of square pieces of earth, dried in the
fun, which soon become hard as stones; the outfit
es of these are whitened with lime, made of
burnt muscle-shells. Their out houses are covered
with palm-leaves, and are referable huts.

The streets are short and narrow; and tho the
houses cope in such a manner that they almost all
meet at top, they scarcely answer the purpose of excluding
the heat, which is here excessive. The streets
are not paved, but filled up with earth, which being
continually watered to allay the dull and heat, becomes
in time very hard.

The



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 20 3

The Dutch and English have each a factory in
this place, distinguished by their respective flags,
hoisted on the tops of their houses.

Water is very scarce here, it being brought by
the slaves from a distance of three leagues every
morning, and kept to cool in earthen vessels or
sheepskins.

The only tree produced hereabouts is the palm;
but the inhabitants have plenty of Persian wine, of
a sweet flavour, a high red colour, and pretty strong;
they have also arrack distilled from coco and rice,
and are fond of a sherbet, made of water, lemons,
and sugar, which if taken in too great a quantity,
is apt to give the bloody flux.

Strangers who will venture to reside here from
March to October, a space during which the heat
is excessive, mull expect to be attacked with an
ague, which they can hardly ever get rid of. Most:
people then either sleep upon leather or in their
turrets, with the body immersed in water. Some
of the richer sort of people employ their slaves in
pouring rose-water down their necks.

Such ships as are obliged to slay in this port during
the summer season, must be closely covered up
with thick fails, otherwise the planks would run the
hazard of splitting; for the pitch and tar boils up
so hot upon deck that there is no venturing to
walk bare-footed over it.

This excessive heat is in a great measure caused
by the city being placed at the foot of a barren
mountain, directly opposite to the south, a quarter
from which the wind blows during the bed part of
the summer season, and the breezes, instead of refreshing,
are stifling to man and beast.

All the inhabitants of Gameron are merchants,
who have country-houses ten or twelve leagues
from the city, most of them lying upon the banks
of a rivulet, where, during the summer season, they

K 6 merrily


204 THE VOYAGES OF

merrily spend the profits of the winter, leaving
their town-houses to the care of their slaves until
the month of October, when the foreign ships and
merchants begin to arrive, and business encreases
as the heat subsides.

CHAP. III.

The trade and commodities of the city of Game on :
how women of plea fur e here are to be distinguished :
cf the manner of their feeding cattle \ their fish , and
fowl , &c. the sepulchre of a Banyan saint much frequented:
of the various feats of brains , and their
extraordinary kinds of spontaneous penance ; of the
veneration in which they are held , more particularly
by the ivornen : of the danger to which the governor
of Game on is annually exposed ; of their foot-pots :
of the sands of ffueixome^ Kejam^ Sark i and
Ormus ; the left of these if ands more particularly
treated of: cf the antiquity , trade , former magnificence
and present ruinous condition cf the city cf
Ormus : of the fait springs and medicinal well of
Ormus : of the finking-wood: a conjecture relating
to the if and of Ormus having formerly been on fire
for seven years: the power of the kings of Ormus
bow overthrown .

T HERE are caravans, confining of many thousand
camels, dromedaries, and asses, loaded
with all sorts of rich goods, from Babylon, Turky,
and Persia, brought in here annually to be exchanged
for East Indian wares.

The staple commodities of Gameron are cloth
of gold, tapestries, pearls, Per ban wine, the bess
rose-water, and fruits of all sorts, as plums, raisins,
currants, nuts, dates, oranges, citrons, pomegranates,
peaches, cSrc.


The


MR. JOHN NIEU HOFF. 205

The women are kept very close, living in separate
apartments from the men, who lay aside all
business during the time of amorous dalliance.
The women who are to be hired for money, sit at
night upon benches at their doors, with lanterns
in their hands, and each man may chuse among
them as he likes.

The inhabitants are of a brown complexion ; and
the poorer sort, if they do not go quite naked, are
very near it. The more wealthy affect the splendor
of the Persians in their dress ; but some few,
who are biassed to antiquity and whim, habit them*
selves like their forefathers, wearing gold and silver
rings in their hands, ears, and noses. The
common people use dates instead of rice or bread,
and dates and fish are in general their principal
food, not only here, but all along the coast; even
their cattle are fed with date-hones, and the guts
and heads of fish boiled and mashed together, fodder
being extremely scarce.

They have plenty of tame fowls, which are in little
estimation, being of a brackish taste; also pigeons,
partridges, sheep, and hares. Among the variety
of excellent fish which the sea hereabouts yields, are
foals, and prodigious fine oysters, the worth of
which food they know but little of, neglecting
them entirely. Here they preserve fruits well; and
the better sort of people, but more particularly
the Persian governor, live in extreme pomp and
luxury.

About a league to the eastward of the city is the
sepulchre of a famous Banian saint, lying under a
tree, the branches of which bending downward,
take root again and produce other trees, so forming
a naturally continued succession of arbours, to
which the people repair in parties of pleasure, to
shelter themselves from the heat of the fun. The
intermediate spaces of ground, which are not en

growled



2o6 THE VOYAGES OF

crossed by the rooting of the tree, are paved with
brick, and adorned with neat benches to accommodate
those who are wearied. Hither several sects of
Indians repair to offer sacrifice.

Over the sepulchre is built small pagoda, wherein
are many lamps burning both night and day under
a silken canopy.

There is a fed of brains who always go naked,
their privities excepted: they have no dwelling-places
of their own, but deep on dunghills, or in
the porches of the temples. These are oft to be
met with, fitting cross-legged on the highway.
They never pare their nails, shave their beards, or
cut their hair; so that they have a mod savage appearance.
The range penances which these
people inflict upon themselves are almond incredible,
for, they voluntarily subject themselves to
miseries which one would think human nature was
unable to endure.

Some of them have been known to continue in
devotion nine or ten days, without eating or drinking
; others of them never sit; and when they intend
to Deep, tie a rope about their middles, and
hang themselves to the branch of a tree ; a third sort
carry their hands always above their heads, and
distort their eyes strangely, never looking upon
any body, as if it were criminal to distinguish objects;
neither can the flinging of the gnats, nor
the heat of the fun induce them to alter their
mortifying portions. They besmear their bodies
with allies and cow dung mixed, as well as
and saffron; so that they cut a mod
nauseous figure. These wretches are the principal
objects of the devotion of the Indian women,
who kiss the extremities of their fingers ends, but
direct their adoration particularly to the privities,
to which they apply their lips with the propounded
respect; and if these miserable creatures should
chance to raised the lead sensibility from the

contact,


MR. JOHN NIEU HOFF. 207

contact, they would be no longer ranked among
the holy.

The governor of Gameron is accountable for
his conduct to certain commissioners, who are sent
yearly to examine into it by the king of Persia,
with a power to take'his head if he has added illegally.
He is obliged to meet these officers unarmed,
but it is very seldom he is known to pay the
forfeit. If he is found to have behaved well, he is
presented with some pieces of cloth by way of reward
; and they enter the city together, where
they feast for some days.

There are foot-posts between Gameron and If-pagan,
wonderfully expeditious : they are appointed
by the governor, who fiiTb tries their ability by
setting them to run with a single horseman, and if
they answer expectation he gives them the title of
runners, together with a fuit of cloaths, and permits
them to attend any stranger who come hither
for hire, when he himself has no occasion for them.

The tanned fans of the Persan sheep and goats
are in great repute; and the shepherds manage
their flocks, in one of which there are often five
hundred of these animals, with great facility, Drifting
their pasturage, which seem to be in common
among them, as the grass is confirmed.

The isles of Quidam, Kefam, Lark, but more
particularly of Ormus, are seen a little to the right
of Gameron.

The island of Ormus lies between twenty-five
and twenty-fix degrees of north latitude ; it is interfered
by a ridge of mountains, stretching from
east to well along the whole island. Behind these
are seen nothing but white and barren hills, producing
very fine fait; one of them is pyramidical,
and composed of nothing elfe. One the top of another,
which is called the Mountain of the Dead,
the Portuguese formerly built a chapel, sacred to

our


2 o8 ' THE VOYAGES OF

our Lady of the Rock, to which the natives have
cut Reps, it being naturally very Keep. This chapel
Is observed to arise daily higher, the brimstone,
fait, and salt-petre daily encreasing.

The chapel of St. Lucy is near this mountain,
rifmg upon the ruins of certain old towers, in which
the kings of Ormus used formerly to imprison their
brothers, after having bereft them of their eye-fight.


Here is a large plain, in which are kept, safely
locked, certain cisterns of rain-water, there being
no springs in the island ; and this is much better
than any that is gathered either in pools or ponds,
tho it dont equal the fieri water brought from
Quixote.

On the north side of the bland lies the city of
Ormus, once one of the most flourishing places in
the world, being then frequented by people of all
nations and of all religions, on account of its
wealth it was once said, that if the world were a
ring, Ormus muR be considered as the diamond

The Dutch (hips used formerly to make a practice,
of transporting in their own bottoms, such
-marble Rones as they gathered out of the ruins of
the old city of Ormus; but this practice has been
lately countermanded by an order from the Persian
governor, under a very severe penalty, the Persians
themselves applying them to the building of
Gameron.

Ormus was once one of the moR famous cities in
the world, on account of its trade, and the conveniency
of its Situation, before a passage by sea
to the EaR Indies was discovered; nor did the
Portuguese, after they had conquered it, neglect
adding to its beauty : for, so far did their orientation
extend, that the very iron of their doors
and windows was plated with gold: and it was
said, that had it remained in their hands till now,

they



J


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 209

they would have turned it all into madly gold.
Upon an eminence they erected a Rarely church,
sacred to the holy Virgin; and an hospital called
Misericordia, adjoining thereto, besides many monasteries,
the bell of which belonged to the augustinian
and Carmelite; and although the
Persians have despoiled it of its beauties, there
Rill remain glorious traces of its former splendor;
among which an high Reeple, admired for the
beauty of its architecture, is not one of the leal
of its confiderable ornaments.

The fortifications of this city, when in the hands
of the Portuguese, were but indifferent. Round
the castle, which was four square, ran a ditch, so
choaked with dirt, that it had seldom six feet water
; and the commanders of it, who are changed
annually, as is the Portuguese custom, were but
poor engineers: indeed their knowledge of military
affairs in general was scarcely much better.
Two sides of this castle were w a fired by the persian
sea, the other two faced the city, in the road
to which was a very handsome square, whence
there was a very pleasant view of the lea. The
Persians have fortified the town much better ; they
have deepened the ditch, and dressed an half
moon that commands a good way round. The
harbour is made by two points of land jutting out,
on one of which Rands a caRle, and on the other
a church, built by the Portuguese in honour of
our lady of Good Hope. This harbour was not
always safe for shipping, being too much exposed
to eagerly winds, whereby vessels are very often
driven ashore.

The governor of Ormus commonly re sides at
Gameron, appointing a deputy who lives in the
city of Ormus, in the palace belonging to the ancient
kings.


The





THE VOYAGES OF

The pleasantness part of the whole island is called
Inrumbake, lying betwixt the mountains and the
sea.

Here was formerly an elegant country-feat belonging
to the royal family, surrounded with fine
walks of palm, but running sass to decay, as being
entirely neglected when our author saw it.

In the jurisdiction of this palace were two large
cisterns, and a bason supplied by a neighbouring
brook, and three contiguous ponds, the water contained
in which was very good.

The village of Turumbake is but poorly built,
consisting of only a few huts, built with reed, and
covered with palm-leaves ; yet this place is made
a summer retirement by several of the chief families
of Ormus.

It sometimes does not rain in this island for three
years ; consequently, it cannot be expected that
the soil, which is nothing but a lump of fait, should
be fertile; and if we except the products of the
royal garden, which are moil of them forced, there
is neither grass nor verdure, nor } r e^ scarcely anything
fit for the sustenance of a human creature,
the spontaneous growth of the island. Sometimes
indeed you may meet with dates, a kind of thorn,
and a few shrubs.

The mountains are full of rock-salt, which is
quite transparent. There are several fait springs i%.
the island, one of which, said to have many medicinal
qualities, is called by the inhabitants Ab-damon,
and they resort to it at a particular time
of the year, to obtain relief in many disorders : the
waters of this spring are strong purgatives.

There is a sort of earthen vessels made out of
the clay of the island, and a plaster called gueche,
of which there are two kinds, the white and the
red; besides this, they prepare a plaster out of
making the bottom of a dunghill up into

balls,


dung


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 211

balls, which having dried in the fun, they burn,
and then beat to dull:, mixing it immediately for
use ; but if they let the ashes cool before they
temper them, they are good for little.

Their cattle are fed in the morning with balls of
black sugar, mixed with butter ; and they wash
their teeth immediately after, to prevent the dirt
flicking therein. In the day-time they feed them
with such herbs as the land affords, first taking
care to cleanse them well. Their meals at night
are pease and beans Reaped in water, having been
first ground.

The inhabitants simili up a great deal of wood
from the bottoms the neighbouring sea, in which
it always finks, whereas, in all other places it floats
upon the surface. This wood is brought down by
the currents from the Persian mountains, which are
not above two leagues distant.

Many things concur to support the truth of this
islands having formerly continued on fire for seven
years together; such as, it being often subject
earthquakes, the south winds which blow from
the mountains impregnating the air with brimstone,
the earth being in many places black and red,
making a moil: frightful appearance, and the valleys
covered with allies, not unlike quick-lime ;
there being besides these marks of a fire, a spongy
kind of pumice-stone all along the chaff just under
the water, and this being light, brittle, and
porous, easily mixes, when powdered, with the
water, causing an excellent cement, which hardening
in time, proves a sufficient protection against
the severity of the weather. It is not impossible
these Rones were caR out by a burning mountain,
there being many of them very black, those only
being white which are found near the seashore;
where, besides having lain a long time, they have
been continually walled by the water.





THE VOYAGES OF

The heats here are much more intense than a£
Gameron, continuing at least five months, and sometimes
lading from May to December. During this
season the wind is south-seas, and well southwest,
very seldom southerly. It is remarkable, that this
lass wind, tho it dont waft any great refreshment
to the houses, yet cools the water, which
the inhabitants every where bathe themselves in ;
for they seldom venture to sworn or plunge in the
sea, the saltness and heat of which would excoriate
the body.

The public houses pay a confiderable license to
the king, and fell a sweet liquor like muff, drawn
from a tree, and call it tari ; also a distillation
from rice and sugar, and Spanifh and Persian wines;
tho the latter being very dear, is found only among
the better sort of people, water being the common
beverage of the meaner inhabitants.

Ormus was formerly governed by Its own kings,
who from custom and imposes railed prodigious
treasures, whereby they were enabled to extend
their con quells on the continent ; but what they
had gained here by their, arms, they afterwards
lost by their neglect 5 f, giving themselves up entirely
to voluptuousness, and abandoning the care of pub ¬
hic affairs to favourites, who, preferring their own
private interest to the advantage of their sovereign,
and the honour of their country, became an
prey to the arms of the Portuguese, who forced
them to pay tribute, and domineered over them till
the year 1622, when they were driven out by the
Persians, assisted by the English, who, in consideration
of their great services, .were granted a moiety
of all the customs to be collected in that port.

All the Indian commodities were formerly
brought into Europe by the way of Ormus,.
from whence they were carried down the Persian
gulph and. the river Euphrates to Afford; from
1 Afford



MR. JOHN NlEUHOFF. 21$,

Bailor a they were borne upon camels to Bagdad, a
city upon the Tigris, where joining several other
caravans, they made a journey of forty days thro*
the desarts of Syria, in their way to Aleppo. From
Aleppo they went to Tripoli, which lies upon
the Mediterranean, on which sea they were embarked
for the different ports of Europe. The
discovery of a passage to the Earl Indies by the
Cape of Good Hope has entirely destroyed this tedious
and expensive method of carriage, and consequently
been of prodigious detriment to the city
of Ormus, tho some merchants Rill resort thither to
buy pearl; and a few Persian silks are carried by
land to Bagdad.

V •

CHAP. IV.

Of the pearl fishery of the if and of Barren : of the
if and of fpwxome \ hut more particularly of the
poisonous Raxana : of the taking of this if and by
the Portuguese ; of their expulsion by the Persans
and English : our author quits the city of Ga?neron % ,
and proceeds in his voyage: of some preparations on
the side of the Dutch against the city of St. Thomas ;
that city described: the tomb of the apostle St. Thomas
; our author reaches the city of Paliaketta ; a
description cf it: of the Kcjtices and Bast ices what
they are: Alafulipatnam defer bed .



A MONG the number of other islands in the
Persian gulph is that of Barren, famous for
its pearl fisheries, which generally employ above
two hundred barks ; but of this we have heretofore
treated more at large.

Three leagues from Ormus lies an island called
Qmxome, which bears plenty of corn and other
grain; and among various sorts of trees, the product
of this soil is one, the fruit of which is reckoned




214 THE VOYAGES OF

ed To poisonous, that the lead tate of it instantly
kills, and keeping under its diadem a quarter of an
hour is certain death : it is called banana, and the
fruit of it rabbit.

As there is good fresh water in this idand, as
well as grain, from whence the idand of Ormus was
supplied, the Portuguese seized upon,it, and creel
ed a fortification; but they were soon driven outby
the Pertains by land, and by the English who
bedewed it by sea.

On the ide of Jarek, which lies to the southward
of Ormus, the Dutch Eat India company redding
at Gameron, have planted a garden, in which,
they keep some useful vegetables, and tame fowls
for their recreation.

Having taken in his lading at Gameron, our author
quitted it the sid of June, proceeding along
the coat of Malabar, intending for Pnntogale in
the ide of Ceylon, to the governor of which he
had recommendatory letters ; but these he sent a-
shore by a small vessel, not clung to land himself,
and went forward to Jafnapatnam.

The Dutch were about this time preparing to
lay siege to St. Thomas, measures from which they
were diverted by that idand’s being sold to the Pagans
by the Portuguese.

The city of St. Thomas, otherwise called G3U1-
mena, and by the natives Maliapor, lies upon the
coat of Coromandel ; it is one of the handsome
towns in all the eat, whether w r e consider it with
respect to the magnificence of its buildings, or
the number and wealth of its inhabitants. It is
fortified with a done wall, and several nations,
having three hundred villages and towns under its
jurisdiction, and being one of the mod convenient
harbours in all the Eat Indies. Here was a church
in the time of the Portuguese, belonging to the capuchins,
and dedicated to St. Francis, bedded fe
vernal



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 215

*vernal other handsome public edifices, and 'a college
in the hands of the Jesuits, who in the year
1604, were said to have converted one hundred
thousand Mahometanss and Pagans in this town only.
The body of St. Thomas the apostle is said to be
buried here, his sepulchre being shewn in a little
chapel, upon the summit of a mountain, which
may be seen a great way out at sea, The spot in
which St. Thomas is supposed formerly to have
said his prayers is surrounded with iron Reps handsomely
built. Upon the whole, the chapel is beautifully
ornamented, and being early esteemed as a
relick, the wood is often carried away by the devout
pilgrims and set in gold.

From Jafnapatnam our author proceeded to ,
which is compounded of two Malabar
words, signifying serpent and city, and is so named
from the abundance of serpents, called cobra capellae,
that swarm hereabouts. It lies in nine degrees
and forty-five minutes of north latitude, and
was, when in the hands of the Portuguese, from
whom the Dutch took it in 1658, handsomely ornamented
with several good churches and other
edifices, scarcely much more than the remains of
which are now to be seen. It is however well fortified,
and surrounded with a good moat, being
pretty populous, and moR of the inhabitants of a
tawny complexion, sprung from a mixture of Moors
and Christians. The chief trade is carried on by
Mahometanss.

Our author having fettled his business at this
port, coated along the shore, which is flat and
sandy, till the 15 th of June, when he arrived at
Paleakatte, where he accounted with the EaR India
director, Laurence Pit, for the cargo of gold and
silver that he had taken in at Persia.

The Dutch East India company have a Strong
fort here, called Jeldree, with four Rone barons.

The





216 THE Vota GE OF

The town is inhabited partly by Hollanders, and
partly by pagan natives, called Natives; the latter
for the mod part trade in painted and white
calicoes and linen.

The country about it abounds with rice and other
grain, of which there is here a weekly market.

In the river is plenty of fish, which are cured
and transported to foreign markets, by the inhabitants,
who take care to catch them before the setting
in of the summer heats, whereby they are
often destroyed in the water.

The principal inhabitants are compounded of
justices and lattices ; the former are the children
of Europeans and the natives, and the lattices are
the children of the justices.

Here are also some rich Jews, Chemists, and
Banians.

Having fettled his affairs at Paleakate, our
author quitted it on the 20th of July, and dropped
anchor before Mafulipatnam, there to take onboard
wood and water. This city lies upon the
river Kin, a few' - leagues from Nagapatnam, and is
intirely surrounded by water on the north-weft of
it; to the land side is a Handing pool, over which
is a bridge, forming communication between the
country and the city, two thousand paces long,
and on the middle of this bridge Hands a house
wherein travellers may rest themselves if weary.

The river, in winter, rises so very high, that
the inhabitants are obliged to sail thro the streets
in boats; but in summer the stream may be waded
through, not being more than four feet
deep : it' is greatly infected with crocodiles, but is
however filled with excellent fish. The city is
well peopled, and closely built; the houses, which
are very neat, all of wood, covered with pan
tiles, Hone buildings being forbid by a royal e-
debt, the king imagining that strong edifices would








R. JOHN NIEUHOFF.

encourage his subjects to rebel, conscious perhaps
that his own tyranny, or inattention to business,
or elfe the oppressions practised by his minister,
were sufficient to rouse them thereto. The Persian
Mahometanss have, however, been permitted to e~
re£I a mosque of white free-lone in the very center
of the town; and some Portuguese capuchins
have had interest enough to settle a convent; but
mold of the inhabitants, being all merchants 3
are pagans, tho, like the Moors, they wear
white calico veils and turbans.

They use rice instead of bread, their common
drink is water, and they have plenty of fish, ducks,
geese, and wild and tame fowl of all kinds. The
Dutch and English All-India companies have each
a factory here.

The country, to the west of Mafulipatnam, is
level and champaigne ; to the east it abounds with
palm and other trees, the prospers being bounded
by aspiring hills from this place. Mr.Nieuhoff returned
to Paliakatte, where he took in a lading of
such wares as he knew were then saleable at Batavia,
whither he was already prepared to direst his
course, when he was obliged, by an order from
the company, to join a fleet sent from Europe, a-
gainst several places in possession of the Portuguese,
lying on the coast of Malabar : in this expedition
he was witness to the taking of the cities of Coking,
Cranganor, and some other places, of which
we have discoursed more fully in the preceding
memoirs of Bales.

It was at this time that the Dutch restored
the lawful king of Cochin to his throne, from
whence he had been driven by the Portuguese to
make way for one of his aunts, who was in their
interest : his name was Momadavil; he was a conversable
sort of a man, speaking the Malabar and
Portuguese tongues indifferently well: he geneva
ql. IV. L rally







yr ' t ‘

*>18 T H E VOYAGES OF

morally had a gold chain hanging round his neck,
large rings of that metal, on his fingers, and was
commonly dressed in white calico.

This prince, while the Dutch laid siege to Cochin,
was committed to the care of Mr. Nieuhoff,
who relying upon his honour, and that of the
queen of Clang, permitted him freely to visit
her. After his return from which intercourse, he
was taken extremely ill, and died on board.

He was succeeded by a brother, whose crown
was of gold, having engraved upon it the arms of
the East-India company. This prince kept his
court, which was really magnificent, in a molt
agreeable situation, at a small distance from Cochin.


CHAP. V.

Ivlr. Nieuhcff is appointed the company's agent to settle
a friendly correspondence zvith the Malabar
princes ; he arrives at Calcolang ; his reception
there : a character of the king and his first mini
ft cr \ he goes from thence to Pored ; the country
described , and the, king's palace : concludes a-treaty
with the king cf Porka : Christianity encouraged
here: the disorders incident to the inhabitants j
their traffic ; our author exposed in his negotiation
at the court of Maria ; carries his point with difficulty
i he has an audience of the king of Pravan-
poor ; his dominions defer liked j his interview with
the queen cf Coining.

A After the surrender of the last mentioned
city, it appearing necessary to confirm an
alliance with home of the neighbouring princes
who inhabit the sea-coals of Malabar, Nieuhoff
was pitched upon by Mr. James Hussars, chief
counsellor of the Indies, for that weighty depart

v 1 - ment*





MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 219

meat; and being supplied with credentials, and
all necessary instructions, he set out on the 21ft of
January, 1664, for the city of Calcolang, attended
by a serjeant, an interpreter, and several soldiers.


On his arrival in that city, notice being given
of it to the king, he and an under-factor of the
East-India company, whose name was Willing,
were introduced to the royal presence, and met
with a reception both respectful and satisfactory.
His majesty had the character of an honed: sincere
man; to the belief of which his countenance invited,
and his actions confirmed it.

The principal affairs of this kingdom were managed
by one of his rafidoors, a principal favourite,
who like most other ministers of Rate, never
separated private interest from public advantage,
but upon the whole, was rather swayed by the
former.

From this place, our author set out to visit the
king of Porka, whom he followed to his country
seat, about ten leagues up the country, which was
flat, having a number of dykes cut thro it, like
the province of Holland ; the land on each side
bearing crops of rice, or being ornamented with,
stately trees ; and here being no high roads, molt
people travel by water.

Our author embarked for Kudda Malair, other-wife
Korornallo, for so was the palace called, upon
a narrow sluice, which opened into a large
lake, two leagues broad ; from whence he passed
into a channel, the entrance of which was very
narrow, and so choaked up with flags, that there
were scarcely room to manage their oars. From
hence they passed into a broad river, with very
pleasant fields of rice on each side, and some
mountains at a defiance, whereon, amongst many
other trees, there flourished a few bearing pepper,

L 2 together







220 THE VOYAGES OF

together with several handsome houses, gardens
well laid out, which with groves here and there interspersed,
form a most agreeable landscape.

Kuddan Mallard lies upon the right side of the
river, in a village inhabited by Christians of the
feet of St. Thomas. In their passage up this river,
they fired at a large crocodile, which lay sunning
himself upon a bank, but he escaped into the water.
This voracious animal was greatly dreaded
by the country people, and had done a great deal
of mischief.

The king was rebuilding his palace, which was
an old fashioned square structure, wherein there
was a vast number of apartments, some of them
ornamented with good carved work, and the windows
being either twilled canes or transparent
shells of mother of pearl. In it were also some
very fine bathing rooms, which were to be ascended
by broad stone Heps, some whereof were
twenty feet in length, and a foot and a half thick.

Mr. NieuhofF’s coming having been finished at
court before his arrival, he was received upon the
shore by a great officer of state, who conducted
him to the royal presence, and he found the king
extremely well inclined to the Dutch interest. His
majeHy attended him to the door, at his departure,
and the officer of Hate who had introduced him
afterwards, brought him into his own apartment,
where he had provided an handsome entertainment
for him and his attendants. Mr. NiduhofF entered
into a treaty with this monarch, which was committed
to writing ; this done, he departed from Cochin
to give an account to Mr. Hussars of his manner
of proceeding ; by whom he was again dispatched
to the king of Porka, to put the Sniffing
hand to this negotiation, which chiefly regarded
the pepper trade ; and so much rcfpedl was paid to
him on account of the character in which he appeared,,




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 221

feared, that he had an audience of the king an
hour after his arrival, who received him very magnificently
dressed, and royally attended.

After he had delivered his credentials, the king,
who spoke good Portuguese, conferred with him
m private, and granted every thing that he demanded
in behalf of the company, in considered
tion of a sum of money to be paid him at a certain
time. His rnajedy was an absolute prince, independent
of any other power, and so Severely
just, that no man in his dominions dared be guilty
of the mod: trifling theft whatsoever. lie was
well made, had a good share of natural understanding,
and was not above thirty years old. He
was mailer of above five hundred small craft, and
in these Confided his principal strength.

The kings of Fork were formerly idolaters,
worshipping at lead nine hundred idols. Christianity
was introduced here, and has prevailed lately
pretty much, at the close of the sixteenth century.


He who reigned, when our author was there,
was an encourager of it, and had granted to the
Jesuits considerable privileges; such as that of building
churches with erodes on their tops, and
steeples with bells in them ; and in these, Christians
were allowed freely to exercise their religion.

The kingdom of Porka is about twelve leagues
long, having Cochin to the northward, Calcolang
to the Southward, these to the wed, and Takkeiv
Berkenker to the north-eat. The land is in general
fruitful, but the air not wholesome. The inhabitants
are much afflicted with blindness, ari-fig
from their eating hot rice ; and thick Swelled
legs, caused by their drinking brackish water
They live by husbandry, and vending their pepper,
which used formerly to be bought up by the English,
but is at present wholly engraved by the

L 3 Dutch,





222 ' THE VOYAGES OF

Dutch, to whom the king may, in some measure,
be looked upon as tributary.

From Porka our author and Mr. George Henry
Willing set out on horseback for the city of Maria,
or Mar tan, which is the metropolis of a kingdoms
the same name, lying three leagues to the southward
of Cochin.

About noon the same day, they arrived at the
Dutch Earl India factory in that city, which is a
handsome building, erected in the Malabar table ;
with good gardens, and walks planted with palm.

Our author was introduced to the king, but was
strongly opposed in his demands, which were to
forbid the importation of pepper; all which
branches of trade the company wanted to engross
to themselves. • ;

Some Mahometan merchants, in whole hands
this traffic was particularly veiled, used all their
ter ell with the king, to prevent our author from
carrying his point ; in which, however, after a
toilsome negotiation of two days, he succeeded,
he not having infilled on the grant of peeling wild
cinnamon.

When matters were adjusted to the mutual satisfaction
of the king and the sailor, articles of
agreement were drawn up, and signed by them
both, in an area before the court; an incredible
number of people having flocked together to be
witnesses of this ceremony. Mr. NieuhofF, in the
management of this treaty, shewed himself a man
of very great abilities ; for had he not been master
of a great deal of penetration, and known very
well how to time his generosity, he would have
stood a very poor chance of succeeding.

The kingdom of Marten extends as far as Porka,’
which bounds it to the northward ; on the south,
it has the Indian sea, and is terminated to the
eastward by very high mountains. It is populous

° .and



MR. JOHN NX EU HOFF. 223

and fruitful, abounding with pepper., having plenty
of pease, beans, and other vegetables, with good'
fields of rice, and some fait pits.

The reigning king was a person about sixty years
old, a large limbed stern looking men, wearing a
scarlet turban lined with calico, and keeping one
thousand two hundred negroes in pay.

There is a good number of Christians in this
kingdom, and the jesuits, in the year 1581, had interest
enough to procure leave to build a church,
which they dedicated to St. Andrew ; the flniilung
hand having been put to it on the day sacred to
the memory of this saint.

Our author returned from Marten, on the both of
February, to Kalcolang, the monarch of which
place presented him with a very rich brocaded
gown made after the Indian faded on ; and expressed
great pleasure when he. heard the success of his
negotiation.

February the 12th, Mr. NieuhofF embarked in a
vessel, prepared purposely for him, for Attingen,
which place was the residence of the king ofTra-
vankoor. About break of day, he landed at a.
village about five leagues to the east of Coulahg,
called Napoli, being carried ashore in an Indian
boat; for the sea ran then so high, that the veflef
in which he was, would have been endangered,
had it not kept aloof.

From Napull he travelled for about a league,
with the sea all the while in view, till he came to a
large river, where he embarked on board a boat,
which, after three hours rowing, brought him
safely to the court of the king of Tra'vankoor;
one of whose great officers met him on the flairs
as he ascended, and conduced him into the royal
presence, where he was very respectfully received ;
and having delivered his credentials, he was ordered
to wait for an answer in the gardens of the

L 4 palace,


724 the voyages of

palace, to which he was conduced, in order that
lie might see them, being attended by some of the
principal nobility, and refreshed with pyfang.

After some delay in this place, he received a
message from the king, to inform him, that in an
affair of so much consequence as that negotiation
now depending, his. majesty could not determine
till the following day; and his answer then was of
such a nature, that Mr. Nieuhoff had room to
suspends, that the company would find no very good
friend in the king ; but he had a message sent privately
by the queens assuring him of her good inclinations
to the Dutch-which she would exert in
endeavouring to hasten a peace between them. In
fine, the conclusion of this treaty was adjourned to
Coulang, to which place our author returned on
the 16th of February.

The kingdom of Travancore is about twenty-four
leagues long, it takes its name from the capital
city, and abounds with pepper, rice, wild citation,
&c. The inhabitants, who are pretty numerous,
dress after the Malabar fashion. The
king is served in great fate, maintaining abundance
of commanders, whom they call mandegals,
and many counsellors, called pallas.

The pepper about Attingen is not so large as in
the valleys of Coulang and Cochin, the soil that
produces it being strong and red.

The hills are divided into fields of rice, rising
one above another like steps, and watered by many
pleasant little streams.

On the 18th of February, our author set out
from Coulang, in company with Mr. Seaward
Baker, for Genre, in order to conclude a treaty
with the queen of that place ; but on his arrival at
Caligula, he was informed, that the queen was gone
upon a pilgrimage into the country of Paratali,
whence she would not return in less than a month,

it




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 225

it being five days tedious journey, without any
conveniency of carriage ; besides the roads being
so rocky, they were scarcely passable. This disappointment
induced him to give over his design of
going after the queen, and to leave a letter with
one of her refidoors, inviting her to accept of the
proffered friendship of the company as the other
Malabar princes had done.

Soon after this transaction, Mr. Nieuhoff was
met at Cooling-China, by one of the king of
Travankoor’s refidoors, who, after some altercation,
concluded a treaty of peace with him, much
to the advantage of the company.

March the 2d, Mr. Nieuhoff" set out for the palace
of the queen of Coulang, whom he found attended
by seven hundred soldiers, and extremely
well inclined to accept of all his overtures; she
presented him with a golden bracelet taken from
her own arm. She was a middle-aged woman,
very capable of managing public affairs. Her complexion
was brown, and her hair black, tyed behind
in a knot, round her middle was wrapped a
ifrip of calico, another flowed carelesly over her
shoulders ; the upper part of her body was naked,
and she had a sort of white cap on ; her neck and
arms were ornamented with golden bracelets set
with precious stones, and file had very valuable
pendents in her ears, which were very long.

Our author, on his return to Coulang, paid a vi-fit
to admiral Houfiart, to whom he gave a full
account of all his proceedings, and who expressed
himself extremely well pleased at his conduct.

About this time, commodore Bitters lady was
introduced to the queen by Mr. Nieuhoff, in whose
palanquin she was conduced to court, where file
was extremely well received, and the Malabar women
were as curious to have a sight of her, peeping
into the palanquin as die passed along, on acl

5 coeur


22 6 THE VOYAGES OF

count of her being an European, as she could possibly
be to have an interview with the queen of
Coulang and her ladies.

CHAP. VI.

Our author quits Coulang , and is ordered to Touteko-
rin ; and after some time remanded back to Coulang ;
a description of Toutekorin , and a character of the
inhabitants: of an extraordinary sort of mice: the
boldness of the serpents of Madure : Showers of
sand very dangerous: the manner in which the
nay of Madure secures the fidelity of his principal
officers: of the pearl fishery : the manner of diving
for pearls : of an animated horn calledfianco : our
author crosses the Palliate mountains \ in danger of
being plundered by robbers: he comes back to Cou
lung, but quits it on account cf a dispute , and embarks
for Holland: his conduct approved of $ he is
appointed a fabler for the East India company
again.

O UR author having fettled the company's affairs
upon a good footing, and secured their
trade, by concluding treaties with several of their
princes upon the coals of Malabar, set out from
Coulang, where he had chiefly resided more than
two years, for Toutekorin, there to Ripple the
place of the company's chief director, who was
ordered to Persia upon very important business.

March the 12th, our author embarked for that
city, where he arrived on the 18th, having been
harassed by contrary winds. He (laid here about
six months, and was then remanded back to Cou
lang, where he was supposed to be in high estimation,
to take upon him once again the government
of the company's trade in that city; leaving

to



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 227

to Mr. Laurence Phil, the care of their interest; at
Toutekorin.

Toutekorin is, properly speaking, no better than
the chief village, there being six others upon the
coast of Madure, which, in all, are supposed to
contain about twenty thousand souls. It is a beautiful
sea-port, situated on a flat, ornamented with
some good stone buildings, among which are three
Christian churches, a convent of Franciscans, and
a Protestant chapel.

The inhabitants are rather Heathens than Christians,
tho* they seem. very attentive to the performance
of divine service, of which, however, they
underhand but little. They are strong and black,
deceitful, cunning, and amorous, paying but little
respect to their wives, and keeping generally many
favourite mistresses. They feed upon meat and
rice, drink nothing but water, and subsist upon
pearl fishing, weaving and painting of calicoes.

The captains and governors of these (even villages,
who are chosen annually, swear fidelity to
the Dutch Earl India company. They are principally
under the jurisdiction of the nay of Madure,
whose country is about seventy-five leagues long,
and thirty broad, the seacoast: being full of pearl;
the land void of any sort of verdure, houseless
and thistles excepted ; nor will even the coco,
which springs up almost: any where, flourish in'
this soil.

Here are hares, the flesh of which is tough,
also red partridges; here are also two sorts of mice,
both which are an overmatch for a cat, the smaller
sort is red and very fierce ; the larger sort in colour
and shape like the European mice,, but they have a
rough skin, without t any hair. These are as large as
cats, fight fioutiy, and do confiderable damage*
by digging holes in the merchants warehouses,

L 6 The


22$ THE VOYAGES OF

The country is full of venomous creatures; and
so fearless are their serpents, that one of them
cast its skin in the night at the feet of our authors
bed.

In October, November, and December, the
westerly winds are pestiferous hot, bearing with
them such showers of light sand from the mountains,
that it is dangerous walking in the fields, for
fear of being smothered by them.

The nay is mailer of several confiderable provinces,
each of which has its peculiar governor,
of whose fidelity he allures himself by detaining
their wives and children under a guard of eunuchs,
in a cafiie about seven leagues from Mad lire ; nor
are the husbands permitted to see them without a
particular licence, which generally limits their fray
to two or three days : for this reason, many of his
chief nobility content themselves with harlots.
We should have observed before, that the word
nay, signified governor or viceroy formerly, tho
at present it is awarded to those .who bear the
royal power.

The pearl-fishery lies between the coast of
Madure and the island of Ceylon. Some of the
banks whereon the oysters are laid, are six or seven
fathom under water, and double that distance from
the shore. The pearl-banks are rather rocks of
white coral: the oysters, when they come to be
six years old, vomit out their pearls, which are
consequently lost. October is the best season to
full for them, the weather being then calm, and
the sea pretty quiet. The divers are covered with
a thin waistcoat, having gloves on their hands,
and nets tyed about their necks ; into which they
put the oysters they pick up from the rocks. To
each of them is appended a ft one of about fifty
pounds weight, whereby they are carried more
swiftly to the bottom ; and this stone is drawn up


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 22?

as soon as they give the signal of their having
touched the ground : they then go to work assist
as ever they can, scraping the shells wherewith
they fill their nets from the rocks. When they
find themselves unable to slay any longer under water,
they are, upon pulling the rope which ties
them, one end of it being held by a person in the
boat, immediately drawn up. These boats, which
are called tonics, together with their crews and
divers, are hired for lo much a day.

All the oysters that are brought on shore are
laid in an heap till the time of fishing is over, and
then they are opened in a wooden house erected
for that purpose, before a factor belonging to the
company, and one of the nayk’s agents. It often
happens, that the bad smell, arising from their
having been kept too long, communicates an infectious
distemper. In some shells are often found
no pearls, in others, six or seven, nay sometimes
eight. They are brightened before they are sold,
by rubbing them with powdered rice and fait.

Besides the pearl-oysters, they catch upon this
coast, a certain animated horn called francis ; of
these they make bracelets and thumb-rings, preferring
them to ivory. Among them is sometimes
catched one much more valuable than the rest, on
account of its bigness and colour, being red and
green ; which is called the king's horn : but there
is scarcely found more than one of these in a hundred
years. The divers and fishermen are often
devoured by (harks, against which voracious creatures
they arm themselves with charms and incantations,
notwithstanding their being Christians.

Our author, in his journey to Coulang, eroded
the Palliate, which is a dreadful ridge of mountains,
above a hundred leagues long; the surface
of the earth being of a bright red, causes, by reflection,



23a THE VOYAGES OF

fleftioii, a mod dreadful appearance in the Sky*
upon a sunshiny day.

As there are no inns between Toutekorin and
Coulang, wherein travellers may red and be refreshed,
our author was attended by several slaves,
who carried provisions, and a guard of soldiers;
to which lad addition to his train he was obliged
for profession from a party of Malabar robbers,
who, had he not thus been defended, would have
certainly dripped him and his people; for, they had
the boldness to seize two of his followers, who
were loaded with Persian wines : however, they
were put to flight upon perceiving a file of mus
muleteers ready to discharge upon them.

May the 25th, Mr. Nieuhoff arrived at Coulang,
where he took measures for fortifying and repairing
the city, but having some difference with Mr.
Goes, who presided in the room of Jacob Hou-dart,
then at Batavia, he was ordered to the city
of Columba in the isle of Ceylon: from .which
place, having said there about a year, he went to
Batavia on the 20th of Augur 1667, where he
remained three years without being at ail engaged
in the company's service.

December the' 17th 1670, he set sail for Holland
in an Eat India flip, and on the id of January
got sight of the isle of Money.

March the 6th, they made the Cape of Good
Hope, where, upon the 8th of the same month,
arrived the Mary yacht, having on board the Marquis
de Mondeverguin, a French nobleman, who
was governor of Madagascar and some other places
under the jurisdiction of France.

They left the cape on the 20th, and on the
9th of July, came to anchor in the Texel; in a
few days after, our author went to Amsterdam,
where he had a conference with count Maurice of
Haff&u, who was particularly pleased with the observation




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 231

sermons that he had made in his various voyages
and travels ; nor were the directors of the East India
company less satisfied with his behaviour and conduct.
In token of their approbation, they a third
time appointed him one of their factors to the
East Indies; but before we follow him in this his
last voyage, we shall proceed to lay before you his
account of the island of Java in general, and the
city of Batavia in particular; for no man could be
more exact in his observations during his hay upon
that island, he having lived upon it three years,
without being employed by the Eah India company,
as we have|before observed ; and his remarks,
not only abound with matter sufficient to entertain
and intrust a curious and intelligent reader, but,
upon the whole, they are allowed to be the hest
description of that island, both for truth and ex**
aptness; that has been hitherto published.

CHAP. VII.

The situation of the island of Java ; its division and
chiefs ; soil , productions? climate , seasons , beasts
wild and tame : the natives of the island char ah e~
red : the antient state of Batavia ; its modern
appearance ; its streets , channels , and number of
bridges: its churches , castle? and other public
buildings.

T H E island of great Java lies six degrees
southward of the line. It is divided from
Sumatra by the heights of Sunday, the chance
between them not being more than live leagues.
Small vessels may pass conveniently between it and
Borneo, an island lying to the north. It is separated
on the east from the lesser Java, otherwise
called Bay, by the channel of Balambnam; on

the


2*32 THE VOYAGES OF

the south, it is washed by the main ocean. It is
supposed to be near one hundred and forty leagues
long, its breadth is different in many places. On
the north chaff of Java, are several good harbours,
commodious creeks, and flourishing towns, with
some small islands near the shore.

This island was formerly divided into several
petty kingdoms, but they are all at present united
under the jurisdiction of the king of Bantam, who
is in possession of the western part of the island,
and the emperor of Naturam, who governs the
eastern, and by far the better part of great Java,
whereof he is stiled emperor by the Dutch.

The land is fertile about the sea-coals, but the
Europeans have as yet made very little progress in
the country, the ingress whereof is forbid by
forests that are impassable, and mountains that
wrap their hoary heads in clouds.

They have plenty of rice and fait, with good
hogs, oxen, sheep, fish and fowl, both wild and
tame. The woods are infected with tigers, rhinoceros,
and various other sorts of wild beads;
and crocodiles lurk in almost all the rivers. There
are no vegetive productions natural to the soil of
Malabar, which are not known here. Few climates
are more temperate and wholesome, the east
and west winds blowing all the year along the seashore,
besides the common land and sea-breezes.

The coast is very dangerous in the month of
December, on account of the violence of the westerly
winds. In February, the weather is changeable,
with casual Harms of thunder and lightning.
In March, they begin to sow, their sugar
and rice ripens in July, and October furnishes
them not only with plenty of fruit, but with everything
necessary to sustain life, as well as to make it
agreeable*


The


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF, 233

The Sky is generally serene from May to November,
when it begins to be overcast, and rains
some time so vehemently for three or four days
together, that all the low countries are laid underwater
; yet, one conveniency attends that inundation,
that of carrying off numberless broods of
infests, which would otherwise prove destructive
to their fruit.

The natives of Java are proud, barbarous,
cheats, lyars, and impostors; they have flat faces,
of a brown hue, with little eyes, like the antient
Chinese, from whom they boa themselves descended,
large eye-brows, with big cheeks, and
thin black hair : the men are strong-limbed and
robust, wearing a piece of calico wrapped several
times round their bodies, which, among the better
sort, is flowered with gold.

The women are generally small, having this
garment reaching from their arm-pits to their
knees, all below being bare.

The religion of the Javanese, who live near the
seaside, has been that of Mahomet for near two
centuries: the red of the natives are pagans, and
they are all indulged in the liberty of having two
or three wives, besides as many concubines as they
can keep.

On the western part of this island, near these,
lie several good cities, such as Batavia, Taggel,
Charabaon, Dermuyaon, Manuhaon, Caravan;
on the eastern part the cities of Balambuam,
Panarukan, Paflarvan, Spartan, Surabafaya, brandon,
Sydaya, Tubaon, Kajaon, spare, Pati, Da
nina, Samarang, and Naturam, the residence of
the emperor of Java.

Batavia was formerly no more than an open
village, inhabited by pagans, and surrounded by
a palisade of bamboos ; but fence the Dutch have
established a Settlement here, it is said to be one

of


234 THE VOYAGES OF

of the finest cities in the East-Indies. The chinese
and Javanese call it Alaska, from a sort of
cocoa fruit, which abounds in its neighbourhood :
it lies in five degrees fifty minutes south latitude,
having to the southward a fenny soil, and being
bounded to the northward by woods and mountains
: it is watered by a beautiful river, that takes
its rise in a neighbouring mountain ; and after
wandering thro a thousand little meanders, col-less
itself into a body before it enters into the city
of Batavia, where it empties itself into the sea.

Batavia is of a quadrangular figure, fortified with
a done wall, having twenty-two nations and four
great gates, two whereof are extremely magnificent,
being the workmanship of the famous John
Lifting.

The bay, in which it is situated, has seventeen
or eighteen islands in and about it, whereby the
violence of the waves and winds is checked and
broken; so that the harbour, which will contain
above a thousand vessels, is one of the safest in the
world ; and several barks may lie close under the
banks of the river, in a muddy bottom, without,
anchors : it is (hut up every night at nine o'clock
by a chain, thro which no strip is permitted to
pass without paying a certain custom, being guarded
by a strong party of soldiers.

The streets. of this city run in a strait line, and
are most of them thirty feet broad, being paved
with brick near the houses, which are handsome
and commodious, each having a good flower-garb
den handsomely laid out, and well flocked with
fruits, flowers, and plants. There are fifteen
streets which have canals of water in them, andover
one of these canals, which is edged and
lined with stone, are four fine strong bridges,
consisting each of as many arches, every one
of which being twelve feet broad: there are


Yol.IV


V


/uye'W4-












































































































































































































































































































































































































































































H U ;>I 1 M' -V: H'/n-? •• U



,d>

7«.sr




Vita

srf . = .

-1" Ao * £


■ • V ■ .t '

•• *. ,’s sci. .j "V -f v •.

•.:|rVv ■»




©"0


C'. A. o



di'y vooitv : r; ' :

Hi

© >* 4

\ s "-' •*•

n

a Tm

J, p £

■if IT07

,no;:i?do


o- • >>Tf •

oT

Ik




f

JL -•

to

To

T o

■•:L: ,* i'OT

- 3 ' to ■ 0 '

blind S3 to

■ 2gni$hs

H


o:4;


i>

- ”■

■-tT

bt

7 .'-

i 1 ,J>.

ais.







* ’ o ■ : wr. - Ik

;;", mis


"V


it's ' “b

V*. j




o ,o to:. Soh

profit



irn



OH.: ' v '



< *;

5'

■;:w


f*

•V"TM .*

.>o

■ •; ■ t /

s ■' •* r- •

T i :' : ’


'T :-; T minx

O'tjO

O’V

■'•■A tf'

;) ;Li.'

% •: n

AH

OH' :.-,0

iC-1 • 4 '


::: l-tod-.1

' ' ,
h -V.-:


T-'i

A mo

kv,

J.'l 0 “j - 1

'■ .*» o ’ • o

> V ; T : '

>' /•*
t. L

oo: o o.

.V • -» ;

V' //■

isti

bit

ii.-,

4kT'T:



^ . i I , .Ul■■■’ ! M

Ted

i, i ■*

{y i.;

.1/

i

;y ♦>} r :



C T

V -

o od ofi : 1> o.

„■ L F ’

To

•,

i"' ‘ ’

.* .

•* A

Li: :

v >0 I



oj Soil v o:7

•0;0 : «./


O', i y •

I r- r

»•*’ i , ; .

-L L ; ' fr


v

0; Host

• fe ■;;*

i &


o::L



- i-

.• , T ? -



/ ' ~

ootuo 'ilia


;, ; ,;■/

f ■•■••'•'■ 0 0

o:T ■' < ■' | '• o . .

■ & . r ■

■

,Ti"' * Y .i s. „ . . t '

•■■■• ■> i; •

f w-<- ■ - • i ? ••

>|i i

0 ;

00 *fe .

J • • ?■«/■

'.v A ■: : ■ .* ■ • ■ ■


‘ P;


l. :

» y. .




■. ft - ■ I i

1 5 ,IT' ^
' :Tb is


-i > *' 5

•i. .V • , <


m

S:r,vf

10 £i


l

-V . . £, ' /

.}i ■ •■*. •• c,i

JtT ’ ' ^ ^

sj 'O'; . '1 .j.-oi

' So





il at

«*. .

■ ff 0 -0:


1 1




tools

■.t \

■




sD.nio


.idiot"

bpbmi

oi':

rv (0 O': 0 03


OF

1?

"i.: o- ; /


>.c

o Tl.T

'irxo


hP:

Ik

LO'

rigid s



S.b.;Ti : :

TV Oho.'

: :.

• r ' r' •

d-

11 •: l


'•L,0.O:

am-c. ; ,

|lo'0

t t r- f>‘ t Y ■ "'f •' ■>"'

"'- l '- • i ■ ■ ' ' T • ' v

ii : it


v r

lift

’ ,1 o-

0” ih : C

dw


“■ A.,! ■

f « -<

iO


.•V" od


v " •• *
•U w ’■ ■ ■, u J*

d; if Ji'!

- J A ■ 0

l. V.' s



V'A 'T-T

i v/

»-N<>

*l*.

fc VLO't


0 A


\





o




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 235

fifty-fix bridges in this city, besides many drawbridges
without the walls, made of wood.

The Cross church, which was built in 1640*
being of solid Rone, claims precedency of all the
other buildings of Batavia; its Reeple is beautifully
adorned with iron work, the Rone edging
in its front being very finely carved, and its top a-
domed with cherubim : however, these ornaments
have been much hurt by time, and the sharpness
of the air. The structure, upon the whole,
is lightsome and lofty, the pulpit and seats are
made of ebony, with some fine iron work round
them. The vestry is of the laR-mentioned wood,
and the body of the church is furnished with five
very fine branches brought from Holland. The
foundation of another new church was laid before
our author left this city, besides a third of an octagonal
form erected in the castle in the year 1644,
with a fiat top, and the floor covered with white
and blue Rones handsomely polished.

The town-house Rands in the center of the city ;
it is built of brick tv/o Tories high, the ascent to
the second Tory being by a flight of winding Rone-airs.
The great gate of this Rru<Rure, over
which is a Roue gallery, bounding the upper-hall,
is of the Corinthian order ; the windows are well
glazed, lofty, and fenced with iron bars. In this
house the courts of Juice meet, as well as the senators,
the directors of hospitals, and other public
buildings ; criminals are executed upon a scaffold
erected before it for that purpose: the officers of
juice, and the prison-keeper have their lodgings
within the inner court, which is surrounded with,
a high wall and a double row of Rone pillars.

In the hospital for the sick, which Rands upon
the banks of the great river, you will sometimes
see two or three hundred poor patients, w r ho are
provided with every necessary in a plentiful manner

#


236 THE VOYAGES OF

ner, at the company's expence, being supplied with
apothecaries, surgeons, ministers, and other officers,
who have good salaries, and are regulated
by three of the principal people of Batavia, one
of whom takes it in his turn, weekly, to, examine
into the hate of the hospital, than which nothing
can be more neat. The minister, besides visiting
the sick, is obliged to say prayers twice a-day; and
there is a sermon preached on sundays, at which
those who are able are obliged to attend.

There is a place called the spar-house, erected
for the confinement of lewd women, where they
are kept continually at work, being, on the neglect
of it, very severely punished.

On the brink of the river find two Daughter -
houses, supported by wooden piles ; by which
means the offal of the beasts that are killed are
easily disposed of in the river: here they kill twice
a week, and every butcher has a particular Dale,
in which he kills his meat, being obliged to pay a
tenth penny excise for every beaD, according to
the value put upon it by the farmer ; beef and
pork, in our authors time, sold at four-pence a
pound, and mutton much dearer.

Opposite to the town-house, in the same square*
is a Drudfure divided into Drops, which are occupied
by the Chinese, at the rate of three crowns
a month each shop ; in these they fell all sorts of
cloaths ready made, and Puffs and callicoes.

To the edward of the town-house is a range
of Tables built of brick, and paved with Done;
so that the filth and horse-dung may be easily washed
away, wherein are kept above one hundred ,
which are the property of the Dutch
EaD-India company, besides coach and cart-horses ;
those which are brought from Feria and Arabia
are the beD ; there are some few brought from
Samara, which are broken-mouthed. Near this
t place


MR. JOHN N I EU HOFF. 237

place is a very handsome manager, wherein horses
are broke by persons who are maintained for that
purpose : they are generally natives of Persia ; and
5 ths remarkable that they break their horses without
whip or spur.

The Chinese hospital is a neat brick building,
maintained by a tax laid upon marriages, burials,
and public shews, as well as the voluntary contributions
of Chinese merchants. In this house the
sick and superannuated natives of China find a
refuge, at lead: from absolute misery.

There is also in the same street a foundling-hospital,
and a little farther off a structure, in
which all the artisans in the company's service are
lodged, and here for some time our author took
up his habitation. In this house the furveyor-ge-
neral of the workmen, who keeps under him two
clerks, has handsome apartments ; here also such
criminals as have been condemned to chains, are
kept to hard labour; the doors are shut up every
night at nine o'clock, and a strong guard of slaves
polled at them to prevent any disorder : there is
a surgeon maintained to attend these people at the
public expence, and a schoolmaster, who fulfils the
duty of a chaplain, saying prayers constantly morning
and evening. *

The company maintain a great many people, by
means of their rope-yard, wherein the workmen
enjoy an agreeable shade from a row of nut-trees
planted on each side of it.

To the west of the rope-yard stand the com
pany’s warehouses for mace, cinnamon, loves, &c.

The fish-market of Batavia hands on the west
side of the river ; supported by strong wooden
piles, covered with parties. About the middle of
it is the dwelling-place of a certain officer, who
stops all fishing-boats, and immediately obliges
them to sell their cargo by public cant to the
7 fairest


2 3 3 THE VOYAGES OF

fairest bidder. The purchasers are Chinese, who
pay the officer two-pence in the crown for every
bargain he makes, and they have their different
flails at the rate of two rials a month. This market
is kept open from ten in the morning till four in
the afternoon: the fishmongers, at other hours,
are to be found behind the fiefs-market on the river
side.

All sorts of grain are sold in the corn-market;
a measure of rice, containing something more than
thirteen pounds, being rated at fix-pence: this
measure is called wanting. All the corn venders
are obliged to have their measures and weights
examined twice a year, and marked by a public
officer, appointed to this duty, in the presence of
two aldermen ; and for each of these marks they
pay two-pence.

You may buy a fowl in the market, near the
new bridge, for three-pence : here you may also
be furnished with dried full, eggs, and coarse
earthen ware.

From four in the morning till late at night,
there is scarcely any passing, the crowds are so
very great, thro the fruit-market, which is flocked
with all sorts of herbs, fruits, &c. by the Chinese
and negroes, who are obliged to pay the hundredth
penny excise.

Besides, the public Latin and Greek school,
which is a plain handsome building, there are many
private academies for the instruction of youth, and
the natives are pretty forward in learning.

A printing-house was established in the year
1667, which has met with good encouragement.

In the castle, which is a quadrangle line upon
a flat, are apartments for all the members of the
council of the Indies, as well as for moil of the
company's servants; such as the general bookkeeper,
the secretary of the great council, &c> but

the


•i 6v Z 3


.O T?


0 7 H


In 7.0£. 7

t$V£. ' :

Ssiijsrr .,:i'i xi^om .3 0^ <yv/7 io mrr $1-.

£U Wpl 0?.i i '• r#C'0 ii r

V'V A u rn ir. ■ ••• . ■ • ;.: , - ; m;, :;-

V


• < i; £ ( - !

i

rite i?


| :• • . ■ •.
• . .• •


/ ?■
i ,


V 3 n ; 0 ' r


.*•u


«- •

*■

: ' • •- . .


^ ■: 'h u


Slid




\ • - ■■

.V

mist 7S3a '



■ - i it&j







; v


< - ■ . ■ .

0 KiU ::;. .


sty , - 7

i;

in


•- A


«

£: ; .




-IV

■ - >/■






O't.! . ’ '■■ .0 ;-

■: ■ ;w~ ; v •': od


- : 7

x'li<V


■ - ■ ■ 0- . :






■; , •;


;:?


• -

t «-■' V;; -


v ■ ■ , . ,/ -






- ■ . ■ ft


M- ■■ ■' V ■

'. .

’ V ! ' : • . ■ . ■' • ' . • ft' ' ' -




< ■ fr-.‘


(rv.an


n sto

)' f "' • •.; ■•.; r> ’


v










J : .•







miixjji
























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 239

the palace of the governor, which is within the
walls of the castle, is extremely magnificent.

It is a brick edifice, exceeding in height all the
other buildings of this city, and an iron ship, curiously
wrought, which crowns the turret instead
of a weather-cock, may be seen a great way at sea.
The great hall is ornamented with bright polished
armour, besides ensigns, flags, and other spoils,
taken from their enemies by the Dutch, in several
engagements : it is here that the governor hears
and refreshes complaints, and generally attends at
prayers, which are said every night.

Through a pleasant garden, in the center of
which Hands a tamarind tree, remarkably high,
there is a passage by a little gate belonging to the
curtain, over a bridge to a summerhouse, built
upon piles, in the middle of the water, which commands
a full view of the harbour, and takes in a
prospect of the castle as well as of some part of
the town.

From the east corner of this summerhouse runs
a gallery leading to the chamber of accompts,
which is floored with grey Hone, and has a flat
roof; herein moi of the company's book-keepers
and clerks are boarded at an easy rate, by the treasurer.
On the south-fide of the castle live the
members of the great council; the governor of
the marine department has a house on the north
side, and near his are the lodgings of the physicians,
surgeon, apothecary, factors, &c. here are
also public magazines of provisions, wine, Brunswick
mum, Dutch butter, oil, vinegar, &c. and gunpowder
and artificial fire-works are kept in vaults
underneath.

There are forts erected all round the city, tho'
at some defiance, to protect the inhabitants of the
plain from the incursions of their neighbouring

barbaric



THE VOYAGES OF

barbarians, who, before these were erected, used
often to come down and plunder their plantations.

r ': i f i

\ ; , .

CHAP. VIII.

Of the public buildings of Batavia continued ; of
the inhabitants of Batavia ; of the boats of the
javanese ; of the poisoned arrows of the people of
Macassar ; of the religion of the people of Terror
and their arms ; of the-government and civil power
of Batavia , as well as the ft ate of the church .

T HE country all about may be laid under water
by sluices upon occasion, and its fertility
appears by its flourishing rice and sugar-fields, as
well as its blooming gardens and fragrant orchards.

There are four gun powder-mills, a corn-mill,
a paper-mill, and a mill for sawing of wood,
erected upon one of the branches of the river;
which are all turned by the force of the water.

The public hell-house was built some years since,
to prevent the progress of an infection which carried
off numbers of people ; and here the Tick were
provided with lodging, diet, and suitable remedies.


Besides the foot-garrison, there is a troop of
horse maintained at the company's expence, as a
guard to the general. These have great privileges,
and make a very handsome appearance on Sundays.

The inhabitants of Batavia are a compound of
divers nations, among whom the Dutch are the
most powerful and wealthy. ■ Next to these are the
Chinese, who are perhaps the most ingenious cheats
in the world. They farm excites and custom, and
have a finger in every thing from whence they can
derive profit. They live under a governor of their
own, and dress in a silk or calico coat, with wide

sleeves,


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 241

Reeves, as they do in China, with their hair long
and neatly twilled; for here they pay no respect
to the Tartarean edicts, which in China oblige the
natives to cut all their hair off, excepting one
lock.

The Malayans are next in riches and trade to
the Chinese *, they also live under a governor of their
own ; their houses being covered with leaves, and
planted round with coco-trees. They wear light*
silks and calicoes, and are continually chewing betel,
or sucking tobacco, through blackened sugarcane.


Most of the pedlars are Moors, who have little
flails in the neighbouring market-towns, and fell
coral and glass-beads about the streets. Some of
them have mali vessels in the river, wherein they
import free-shone from the adjacent islands.

In one part of the suburbs live many natives of
Amboyna, in houses made of wooden planks, not
very low, and indifferently carved. Their women
wrap a piece of calico round their bodies, and another
round their shoulders, leaving their arms
bare.

The natives of Amboyna are ill-looking, daring,
and quarrelsome; they have long black hair, and
are armed with feymitars and shields of an oval figure
: they are most of them carpenters, and
reckoned very dextrous in their way.

The houses of the Javanese are built of ;
they maintain themselves by husbandry,
planting of rice, building of boats, and fishing;
and their boats are extremely swift, turned up in
the manner of horns, and for their expedition
called flying-boats.

The Mariners or Topaflers live both within and
without the city : they are a people of easy disposition,
accommodating themselves, without much
difficulty, to the customs and manners of the people
Vol.IV. M among

o






242 THE VOYAGES OF

among whom they live. They have divers occupations,
dress something like the Dutch, and their
houses are well built of stone, arched and covered
over with tiles, having courts before the doors, planted
with all sorts of Indian flowers. Behind the
house they breed their pigs, pigeons, fowls, &c.

In the bland, of Macalfar grows a tree, something
like that of the clove, in the juice of which the
soldiers of Macalfar dip their arrows, which thence
acquire a quality so very poisonous, that they kill
without remedy, whatsoever living thing they chance
to touch. A certain root growing in the lame
bland has however sometimes been found an antidote
against this poison; and human ordure, immediately
swallowed, being one of the molt nauseous
recipes that can be administered, has been
sometimes known to avail, by provoking violent vomiting.
The arrows used by the soldiers of macassar
are about a foot long, pointed at one end
with a very hard wood, and at the other with the
tooth of a certain fish. In the island of Tenor,
mahometanifm and the Roman catholic religion
have lately made some progress. The inhabitants
were formerly pagans, barbarous, and warlike,
armed with swords of sandal wood, wherewith
they can cut a man thro at one blow.

The inhabitants of divers isles near Macalfar are
called Bosses or Bougies : they go for the mod
part naked, excepting a piece of fluff or cloth tie
about their middle, and hanging down to their
knees. They affixed the Dutch in their wars
against the king of Macalfar, after which their queen
had a magnificent palace built upon the brink of
the river of Batavia, adorned with dower-gardens,
vineyards, and walks, appointed for her reception.

The government of Batavia is fettled upon the
same bads as that of Holland, being regulated by
six colleges or councils 3 in the firil of which all

matters



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 24$

matters of state are transacted under recognizance
of the members of the council of the' Indies, over
whom the governor-general of the Indies presides*
In the second council all matters relating to the
public revenue, customs, and the treasury, are debated
and decided. The secretary of this council
has the care of what money arises from public
lines, of which he mull give an exact account, and.
he is obliged to keep a register of all the transactions
of this assembly without any reward but his
salary. The door-keeper attends while the council
is sitting, being distinguished by a slick and a
fever shield, on which is impressed the great feal
of the council. His business is to summon in their
turns such persons as are cited to appear before
the council. The third council consists of the aldermen
and senators, and herein are determined
all disputes arising between private citizens and the
company's servants. This college also takes cognizance
of the regulations of public buildings, and
the chief justice has herein a decisive sentence in
criminal causes.

The fourth council consists of overseers of the
orphans hospital.

In the fifth council presides a member of the
council of justice, who licenses marriages, granting
none to men under twenty-one years, nor to women
under eighteen ; neither permitting marriages
between Christians and Pagans, or Mahometanss ;
nor allowing Hollanders to wed with natives who
cannot speak Dutch.

All matters relative to the soldiery and militia
are determined in the sixth council of Batavia,
which is called the council of war.

The ecclesiastical government of this city is managed
by ministers, church-wardens, and overseers
of the parish.

M 2


The





244 THE VOYAGES OF

The citizens have many pleasant retreats and
gardens without the gates of Batavia.

On the top of a mound of earth, underneath
which lie the bones of a Chinese governor, enclosed
with brick work, Hands a cup upon a table, wherein
the Chinese sometimes put money, and other*
times victuals, as an offering to the soul of the deceased.
It hands in the mich of a grove of beautiful
trees, without side the New Gate.


CHAP. IX.


Of plants 9 fruits 9 and other vegetables of Batavia »
f L L sorts of vegetables that are natural to



Holland, Persia, and Surat, thrive here extremely


well.

For bloody fluxes, which are common to the
climate, they have the bell astringents. Their radishes
are better than in Europe, some of them
boil like turneps, and others of them are pickled
by the Chinese. Their trefoil and clover is extremely
fine, as well as their asparagus, endive,
lettuces, and a sort of mandragora, called by the
Italians beiladone, which is reckoned efficacious in


fevers.


All along the roads, about Batavia, grows a certain
plant, with Email branches, not unlike hops,
spreading plentifully on the ground, or rising as
tall as our French beans ; whose leaves referable
those of rose trees. The flowers are of a lovely
sky-blue, yellow in the middle, but the fruit is
not regarded ; being of a rank table.

Indian beet grows in the gardens of Batavia, its
leaves referable sorrel; some of the flowers are
white, others a mixture of purple and greens-all
sorts of garden herbs are in great esteem among


the


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 245

the Indians, who believing the transmigration of
souls, will not eat the flesh of any living creature ;
neither will they eat herbs of a red colour, because
they referable blood.

The fruit called fokky-fokky, is Shaped like a
pear; it is sometimes a yard long, and as thick asa
mans arm. It contains many small seeds, and
the rind is so thin, smooth, and bright, that the
face is to be seen therein as in a looking-glass.
This fruit is one of the bed and molt esteemed
in all the Indies, being of a delicious table, very
nourishing, and good again!! the gravel.

In the plains of Java grows a tree, whose fruit
is called james by the Malayans, and by the
Dutch floes, or small plums. These are very astringent,
and the juice of them taken inwardly fs
good again the bloody flux.

The fruit called cheer and quabeb, grows in
the isle of Java only. The tree which bears tills
fruit, is something smaller than our apple-tree,
whose leaves and branches it resembles. It is so
much esteemed by the Javanese, that they will not
permit it to be transported unsoiled, for fear it
should be cultivated in some other places. The
fruit is round, smaller than pepper, of a dark
brown colour, and if pinched with the nail, emits
a certain liquor smelling like cloves. The Java
nee and other Indians sleep them in wine, in order
to warm their flocks and excite them to venery.


Aflafetida is much used by the Javanese in their
fauces, by reason of its strong scent, which causes
the Earl India ships bound to Java and other Indian
ports to bring a confiderable quantity of it hither
from Persia; and they exchange it here for
some other commodity, the product of Java.

Cardamome, an excellent spice, grows also in
the isle of Java. tis of a pleasant hot table,

M 3 grateful


4 6 THE VOYAGES G F

grateful to the Bomach, and promoting urine,

Monlit-belek grows in the gardens of Batavia,
This plant steeped in vinegar is a good remedy
against St. Anthony fire.

Indian sorrel, which has no resemblance to that
an England, is eat by the Malayans among their
fall ads, and its leaves mixed with saw-duB of fan*
dal wood, &c. is made into a cataplasm for the
tooth-each.

The plant called marcus, grows in great plenty
about Batavia. It is Peeped in vinegar, and their
made into a syrup with sugar ; which syrup cures
the slings of serpents and scorpions, when applied
outwardly, and taken inwardly at the same time.

Pyzang or Indian figs, grow on a tree, the
trunk of which rises, in the space of six months,
twenty or thirty feet high. The circumference
is about four feet, and it is so soft, that it may be
cut like a cabbage Balk. It spreads its branches
very loftily, bearing leaves of a foot and half
broad, and six and seven feet in length ; green on
the uppermost side, and of a dark colour underneath.
The fruit is like a cucumber in fliaue, and,
when ripe, yellow in side and out. Neither tree
nor fruit produces any seed, but a very handsome
Bower as large as an ostriches egg. The fruit
grows in clusters, wherein are contained a hundred
and sometimes two hundred figs. They are sometimes
dried in the fun, and their taste is as pleasant
has the Portuguese figs. The Dutch esteem them
mightily freed with butter and eggs. Thus
defied, they are accounted nourishing and opening.
Raw they are an astringent, and are nauseous
to the stomach, but are not disagreeable if
plucked before they are quite ripe.

This fruit cut thro the middle, appears stamped
with the figure of a cross. The leaves of the
Indian figs are made use of in packing of goods,

instead


M R. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 247

stead of matting. They serve for dishes, napkins,
and drinking-cups in many places; and our author
tells us, that in the isle of Burn, they preferred
drinking out of the fig-leaf to the use of glair.
It is a tree that thrives bed in a fat soil, and requires
but little cultivation. Some affirm it to bethe
fruit brought out of the land of Promise, into
the camp of the Israelites, by the spies; others are
of opinion that with the leaves of them, Adam
and Eve covered their nakedness after the fall; and
force casuists pretend to maintain, that they were
the forbidden fruit, whence they are called paradise
apples.

The bamboo grows all over Batavia, being strait
reeds, clove in two at the upper end, and having
no root fastened in the ground, but grow without
the leaf! portion of earth from the surface of the
water, having on the bottom a thick knob, from
whence sprout forth small twigs like threads,
which being nourished by the air, bring forth,
leaves and flowers. Its flowers are white, having,
five long leaves, somewhat crumpled, not unlike
white lillies ; they have also a very odoriferous
scent, and a yellow seed within. The leaves sprout
forth at the extremity of the twigs, bending downwards.


The flower called by the Malayans borago foe-fan,
by the Javanese bumping lingo, and
by the Chinese, the Portuguese call fuse de
botany, i. e. the button flower, from its resemblance
to a button. It is much cultivated in the
gardens, by reason of its pleasing purple colour,
which remains even after its being dried ; but it has
no scent.

The leaves, flowers, and scent of the white
sweet briar of Batavia, resemble those of our rose ;
it was brought hither from Persia by the Dutch,
who from it diflii an offence like rose water.

M 4


The


348 THE VOYAGE S 0 F

The jakka tree grows as high as our oak,
the upper side of the leaves are green, the
other side blue; the fruit, which is rough like
the pine apple, springs from the Hem, without
any flavour, weighing sometimes nine or ten
pounds, and being yellow when ripe; when cut,
it appears to have certain divisions like those of an
honey-comb, each containing a kernel, of a yellowish
colour and an agreeable taste, about as big
as the joint of a mans thumb. Too much of this
fruit is unwholsome if eaten raw, but boiled like
a chesnut, they are more easily digested, and a
provocative to venery. The jakka is not only
common in the isle of Java, it is also found in Ceylon
on the Malabar coast.

In all the gardens about Batavia, is found a
tree, growing sometimes to the height of twelve
feet, having thick oily leaves, white on the extremities,
but yellow near the flock, and sometimes
stained with red spots ; from whence springs the
flower of iiampin, or of cambodia, for so it is called
by force naturalist? ; the scent whereof, tho stronger,
is not so sweet as our May-flower. The
wood is grey.

Katfiapiri sprouts out of a pale green bud,
which grows upon a tree, something higher than
the palm, with larger leaves These flowers, on
account of the sweetness of their smell, are some
times sold for two pence a piece.

The rice-flower has a white leaf, streaked within,
and a pointed sprout in the middle.

The portion is a sort of gold coloured apple,
the inside of which is red, and tastes not unlike a
cherry. Upon the whole, they resemble an
orange, but exceed it infinitely in bigness ; a
Angle portion weighing ten or twelve pounds.
This fruit continues aimofl all the year round,

and


MR. JOHN N I EU HOFF. 249

and will keep four or five months after it is gathered.


The mango-fruit rises out of a white flower,
which springs from a small twig, that shoots out
of a tree, every way as large as the English oak.
They are rather used for pickling than any thing
elfe; being somewhat crabbed in taste, tho pleasing
to the eye. The mango, moderately used, is
good again the bloody-flux, and mixt up with
eggs, butter, and sugar, is grateful to the palate,
and lies light upon the stomach.

The mangoflan is one of the moll delicious-fruits
to be found in India. It is a species of apple,
growing on a tree something like a plum or mulberry
tree. On the top of the apple is a coronet
with several points, equalling the number of kernels
contained in the fruit, which runs from six to
eight. It is a great cooler, and scarcely any body
was ever known to have surfeited by eating of it.
It is accounted medicinal in agues.

This last mentioned fruit, and kattaper, are the
only ones that our author remembers to have seen
in the Indies at any time, quite bare of leaves.

The kattaper, or Indian almond, is a kernel,
growing within a hard shell, covered by a hairy
substance, which turns yellow and shrinks as the
fruit ripens. The tree that bears it is tall and
leafy, with a number of branches that afford a
very agreeable Shade.

The Japanese rattan grows here wild: it seems
to be a sort of reed, being divided into joints,
and creeping in spiral lines round the highest trees,
where they sometimes die for want of air. They
bear a kind of brown fruit, of a white colour,
but unpleasant table. Of these, the Chinese make
a good pickle, and draw from them an oil, which
is said to be a help in the cure of wounds. These
rattan are much used in India for walking-flicks.’

M 5 The



y$o see Voyages OF

The tree called by the Portuguese and DuteB
arret y bears a fruit which is full of seed, very palatable,
and resembling, when opened, a rotten
medlar, emitting a scent like rose-water ; which is
prodigiously reviving. It is about the bigness of
a Chinese apple, of a bright yellow, beautifully
shaded with orange.

Dates, when green, are extremely delicious. The
free that bears it continues all the year in full vigour*
There is a male and female date-tree, the latter
of them being the only one that bears fruit. They
have male and female trees of many other forts in
the isle of Java, which are not worth mentioning.

Some, of the water-melons of this island are
white, but the red ones are vastly better. The
plant that bears them, creeps along the ground,
and one of these fruits is sufficient for three or four
persons. They are extremely refreshing, and sharp
in the stomach, being, if moderately taken, not at
all hurtful.

The ripe anna is a very delicate fruit, and if
sliced into Spanifh wine, has many more good
qualities than when eaten raw. Thefmellof this
fruit, when sir ft plucked, is beyond conception fragrant.
It tastes something like our strawberry,
and ought therefore to be eaten very carefully ; a
surfeit of them ulcerating the mouth and palate,
and often giving a mortal bloody-flux. This fruit
was first brought into the East Indies from Brasil ;
the plant producing it loves the shade, and thrives
best in a fat soil. Sometimes a single anna will
weigh five or six pounds ; below and round about
the flock of which, shoot forth certain carved
leaves or aloes, and this is called the crown
of the the anna; which is better known to us
by the name of the pine-apple. They are served
up at moll great tables as a desert, and have of


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. z$t

Fate years been produced in England, and other
parts of Europe, by the means of hot beds.

Among other Indian plants of great benefit to
the human species, is the betel, called by the Malayans,
fire; and so generally used in India, that
one would think there was no living without it :
for it is served up at every visit. It generally produces
a giddiness in the head of those who have
not been accustomed to take it, but this is soon
cured scrubbing the gums with fait. It is a great
astringent, and provokes spitting, being chewed
folded up with a small quantity of lime and are.
Raining the lips red, cheering the spirits, doling
the upper orifice of the stomach, diffusing the vapours
arising from drunkenness, correcting a
Ranking breath, curing the tooth-each, and fattening
the teeth, which it blackens, an ornament
much esteemed by the Indians; yet if chewed in
too great a quantity, it corrodes and loosens the
teeth ; chewed without lime, it gives the spittle a
green colour, and people of fashion mix with it
hampshire, musk, or ambergrease.

The area, so called by the Indians, named tan-fel
by the Arabians, and pynang by the Malayans,
is a nut, produced by a species of palm, according
to some naturalists, which is well known allover
India, growing as high as the coco, with a
body not above six or seven inches diameter,
which tho the sport of every bluff, is felon or
ever seen to break. The inside wood is spungy,
but of the bark, which is very hard, they make
laths, wherewith they cover their houses. The
fruit, when pulled, which is very hairy, resembles
an acorn, but is four times as large; but when
cleared from its outside hairy coat, it appears not
bigger than a nutmeg.

Round the pynang-trees, which are planted in
many places in regular rows, there often winds

M 6 to


252 THE VOYAGES OF

to a great height, a plant, the leaves and branches
of which are like the beetle, and the fruit being
green and chequered, containing a white kernel
with small seeds, is as long as a palm, but scarce
an inch thick, and often used with the kernel of
the pynang and calcined oyster shell, instead of
betel, being much more esteemed among people of
fashion, because it is scarcer.

There has been a tree, transplanted hither from
the Moluccas, called cap-daff or dap-dap, which
is of a pleasant taste; a medium between sweet
and four, and of a cooling quality. They are
much hunted by pifmires. The kernel of it,
which is inclosed in a white rind, is of a delicious
taste; and the fruit itself, which is bent like
a cucumber, is of a reddish colour, mixed with
oval spots of black; and the skin of it ragged.

The takkatak, called by the Dutch the red
currant, from which it is very different, tho in some
respects resembling it, grows in clusters upon a
very high tree, and is gf a flourish taste; yet in
great esteem at Batavia.

The tree called by the Dutch and Portuguese
Hiring, and by the Malayans among, requiring
very little labour to rear it, is found aimed at
every door; the leaves of it, which are cooling
and agreeable, are often used with meat instead of
espionage ; it has a white blossom with yellow seeds,
and the fruit, which grows in long round husks,
like French beans, has many good qualities.

The tree called torre by the Malabars,
by the Javanese, and the husk-tree by
the Dutch, is by the inhabitants reckoned a sovereign
remedy against the bite or. sting of a serpent,
when mixed with a little fait.

The devils leaf, so called, because it over-runs
every place wherein it is produced, is said to be
good against many disorders. There are two sorts


\.A. ,• V V»


• -3 8 AD A Y D? 2 1! T
% : • q § .#$feI 6

I-.,.- , Ao -8 .5 A. oioi A/- : A;


• . : . • ■-■iai&WM t b 9 i 9 Ups<b ha

x j iMq'fii § # -S i r oA. tfeml ,

t )filia

A.ooo- JAo; A A; hflB gaerr/q, sa

j»q | . n gJ > 1 o ■ ■■■

’A" ‘ o. / : si stew'd .aoirfiiA*


m 3' ■■■ ?tff: J



.• A f - $. ■

h

■■ !.



3 j> . k i

^ A 5 - J 5

• i •-• , ; i) -

yA i

V - •. J i ■

},., £H;0

r, V /


5 A A;- >•:


>

J - •


4

.1: to A O'? :. t ■. V’;UT ••: : . .- 03.1 0i>0 O.0000.

- . ‘'*i i ’ i \« o t <- .


\AU ?03d oj : 'i

n s



H . O 0

Rti

V ■

di;v3 : .

H>3 .

f. ' V

[■ : Oil

|

An

dao/or 0

Ev: 3,0

o/ii

> -4

3 0 I>

V *. .

o. ij.vlitX

lo

v »*

f A ■ ■A 3 -•



9 mo . ;■”/

Air:.


■ 5 A A } .

'vt ••. 3
*3 /

v . f '■

<A ; A' • y

B, <}:.•; <

i's •'

’ ; > ■ i

o l/U • o


*♦

to . AA Aa

A

• V

.'.so. 03


t } - J , i. ,




■ 1

;• 5-;

10 .

31.3 .



3:A : 0


k : J ■*}. 4 ■;

o ■ ,.

3 ■ . • * y

VH ' ,-rn: \ ' :•■■.• ■





■>.


< v }

gall o3.

■: •,





*4#^. ♦ . '* « . r

IQ Ji,v


■ • :


>o:


c ? . - / h ■ . ■

o’-Ho.




■ ■ *

• ,-HO;. ".

• •. A A











■ i a . :






■


i i * - . t j ^

- T ' • ■ -, A ' , • • ,

■ is to nu. ■




00.0 an t.




o. . ■

't (l O j fjiivi i ' j

. 'H ■/:,;■ ; • .;


• : v
■ -A


•i ■
J




























































ft


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 2 ;j

of them, one having green leaves, and the other
sprouting up to a height of twelve or fourteen
feet; with leaves wreaked like our red cabbage.
It produces a fruit which is good eating, and re
females a chesnut.

The broad nomerado, called by the Malayans
bajandierdier, is greatly esteemed for the beauty
of its leaves, which partake of all the colours of
a tulip. There is another sort of the nomerado,
sold by the Chinese in the markets of Batavia, either
to be boiled with meat, or hewed by itself ;
in both which cases tis very agreeable.

The Javanese cotton-tree grows pretty high,
spreading its branches out on all sides ; and at the
extremities of which, grow a fruit, about the
bigness of a hens egg, two of them generally
hanging together, which turns brown as it ripens;
when it opens and discovers the cotton, which is
used in stuffing of boilers, beds, quilts, &c. and
produces a confiderable profit. It is not long enough
either for combing or weaving, and if it chances
to catch fire, scarcely any water can quench it.

The flowers of the jambo tree, which by the
Portuguese is called rofado, have a prodigious
fine bloom, and are greatly esteemed in sallad.
The fruit of it is of an oval figure, growing in
clusters, some red and some white, of a very sweet
smell, being good upon the stomach, if hewed
with wine and sugar. The jambo-tree does not
bear till the fourth year, after which it produces
annually three crops.


CHAP,




954 THE VOYAGES OF


CHAP. X.

The account continued, of the plants , fruits , and

trees of Batavia.

T H E fruit called by the Dutch a wild plum,
and by the Portuguese nalyka, is four upon
the tongue, and tho in no great estimation, yet is
Hot intirely insipid.

During, the time that acorns fall from the Canary
or Indian oak, the rangers of the forest keep a
strict look out for wild boars, which repairing in
great numbers to feed upon the acorns, are easily
shot; so that, during that season, wild boar's flesh
is cheap in the Batavia market. Within the
acorn, which is so hard that it mud: be broken
with a hammer, there is a white well-tailed kernel,
covered with a thin skin.

There is a flower, found in the gardens of Batavia,
called full di madre ; in scent and figure, it
is like our camomile, but whether it partakes of
the same medicinal virtues, Mr. Nieuhoff does not
take upon him to assert.

The four lights is a flower springing from a
small bud of a fine red colour ; it is something like
our cauliflower, being composed of four carved
curling leaves, on which is freaked the shape of a
heart; it is rather ornamental than useful, for it
fades very soon.

The alii is a flower of a pale green colour
without, and white within ; it riles from a large
bud, and is found in the ditch between Anson,
and Jacatra; indeed there is scarce a ditch or
Bream hereabouts, to which there is not some sort
of flower peculiar, the qualities and naturewhere¬
of have not been yet discovered.


The


MR. JOHN NIEU HOFF. 255

The bashan is a kind of wild mango, being of
a green colour, about the bigness of a lemon;
within it are certain kernels, not very palatable,
being of a harsh bitter table; the scent of them is
so very strong, that the odors of every flower and
herb in the market at the same time are therein
buried. The tree bearing this fruit is pretty to
look at, having a dark green leaf something larger
than those of the almond tree.

Here is also found a species of nightshade or
henbane, which is thought to excite madness, but
not with any certainty : it is a plant called by the
Javanese and Malayans ratflobonk, dura by the
Indians, and flutter by the Dutch ; it grows wild
in the woods to the height and thickness of a red
cabbage, producing flowers shaped like a bell,
white within and yellow without, which open in
the morning and close up at noon; to these succeeds
the fruit, which is about the bigness of a
palm, with a green rind covered with thorny
prickles, and filled with yellow seed.

The highest tree in the gardens of Batavia is
the banana, round which the betel often winds,
they being planted near each other generally for
that purpose. Its leaves are of a very sprightly
green colour, and the monstrous bats with which
this climate abounds, are so fond of its crooked
branches, they sometimes hang thicker round it
than leaves; however, they are feared not only
from this tree, but from the other products of the
garden, by having small wind-mills placed in the
uppermost branches of it.

The oak of India is as durable as any that canoe
found in Europe, being not only proof again
worms, but also again mice, which gnaw a passage
thro alma every other sort of wood. The
leaves of this tree, boiled in water till one half of

at





t$6 THE VOYAGES OF

it be consumed, is administered often inwardly by
the natives, with success, in flourishes.

The fruit, which the Dutch call a water portion,
and the Javanese atlas, grows on a small creeping
branch, that spreads even over the tops of the
houses, and, with the help of the bamboo cane,
the Indians form arches of it over their baths, to
repel the scorching heat of the fun. Of the fruit
of this creeper, there are two species, one growing
to the usual size of pompions ; another scarcely exceeds
the bigness of a small melon, or cucumber,
and this last is the bell; the rind of this fruit often
inclines to yellow, but the seed and whole inside
of it are white.

The champaka of Siampaka, has a large veined
wrinkled leaf; it grows to the height of the peach
or pear tree; and from its branches, which grow
in a freight line from the tree, bending at their
extremity, springs a flower not unlike the orange
blossom of Spain, the scent of which, partaking
of the sweetness of the rose and the violet, is inconceivably
fragrant; with these flowers, which
are of two sorts, the green and orange-coloured, the
Indians adorn their garlands, and the women dress
their hair, and it is a principal ingredient in the celebrated
ointment called forbore ; this tree also
produces a sort of fruit, clustering and coloured
like grapes, but good for nothing.

There are several sorts of beans found in Batavia,
among which the Moors bean, tho neglected by
the Dutch as distasteful, is much esteemed by the
Chinese; they run up to a great height, being commonly
planted for that end, near the pynang tree;
the hulk of it is about a foot' long, and an inch
broad.

The bean of the Gondola, which runs high,
and affords a good shade, will keep three or four

years ; '


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 257

years; its leaves ‘ shewed or boiled are reckoned
very cooling.

The kadjang of the Javanese, called by the
Chinese petal, is a large wholesome pea, of great
service in ships provision, being very grateful to
the stomach, either served up with bacon or buttered.


One of these, put into a pot of earth, and carefully
watered, will in twenty-four hours sprout up
and yield an excellent sallad.

The makandou, is a fruit resembling the pineapple,
but neither is it so hard, nor pointed at
the end ; besides, when it is ripe, being then of a
yellowish colour, it is quite tasteless and insipid;
the Malayans use it roasted in the allies, as a remedy
against the bloody flux, the pleurisy, and
asthma.

The leaves of a certain tree that grows in this
country, and resembles all, are good to cleanse
and prepare wounds for healing; and the juice of
them pressed out, is excellent against worms; its
fruit, if squeezed, emits a scent stronger and more
disagreeable than aha-foetid ; and therefore it is
applied to the nostrils of such persons as are
troubled with fits ; in the heart of this fruit is a
nut, containing a kernel of a binding quality.

A decoction of the talents, which over-runs
the woods, flopping up the passage, wherefore
they mu ft be carefully grubbed out, is a remedy
against a rheum, and a provocative of womens
monthly terms. It has a leaf like the balsamic,
and bears coronets of flowers like those of the
elder-berry, which table very bitter, and are endued
not only with the scent but the virtues of the
camomile.

The fruit called mangam, produced by a tree
that flourishes upon the graves of the kings of
java, is as large as the coco, and said to be a

better



THE VOYAGES OF

better antidote again poison, than the bezoar-one
5 , or Massive nut, &c. It is thought a great
favour,, if the king of Bantam, when he drinks to
any body, sir puts his cup upon this fruit.

The finbar-mangiram of the Javanese, by the
Malayans called tunica rouse, springs not from
any root, but from a sort of a lump growing under
ones or hollow trees, and shooting out
leaves on every side of it. It is very juicy and
ever green; so that if one of the leaves happens to
wither, another is produced in less than a days
time in the same place; this applied outwardly,
allays tumours: it kills worms when laid to the
navel, and taken inwardly, is a purgative.

The full de take, or flower of the lake, grows
in every pool, to the height of a fathom or more
above the surface of the water; w r hen it sir begins
to open, it emits a mo delightful fmdl; it
seems to be a species of the water-lilly, and being
reckoned cold in the third degree, the decoction of
it is administered in burning fevers, frenzies, bloody
fluxes, and other hot diseases; when the leaves,
which are of a bright green colour, some of them
as broad as the brim of a mans hat, fall off, there
appears upon the talk, a hulk as big as a mans
hand, wherein are found about thirty beans circularly
placed, each of them enclosed in a particular
coat, being about the bigness of an hazelnut,
like which, they in some measure take, being
pretty sweet; these nuts are counted phlegmatic,
and are daily exposed to sale in the markets of Batavia.


The shoe-flower or full de fapato, is something
like the common rose, and takes its name from
yielding a juice when chewed, which is excellent for
blackening shoes ; a water may be distilled from
this flower, which is reckoned good again raging

fevers.


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFP. 259

fevers, and outwardly applied to the forehead,
promotes sleep.

There is also a species of this flower, of an isabella
colour, growing upon a sort of briar, of
which the inhabitants compose arbours ; and its
twigs are used in basket-making. A decoction of
these leaves, after they have been fleeced in vinegar,
is good against a looseness, and outwardly applied,
heals bruises.

The garden sage, rosemary, and feme other"
herbs common in Europe, are soon killed here by
the heat of the climate.

The fruit of the tree called lance by the Portuguese
and Dutch, and kakafean by the Javanese,
grows in duffers as grapes do ; it is something
like a plum, the outside being a yellowish red
hue, the inside, which is very luscious, tailing
something like currant, being white; the skin of
It muss be peeled off, and the pulp sucked from the
kernels, of which it has two or three; both the
skin and kernels being bitter.

The parabola, otherwise kamozia, or arabella,
or chamarah, &c. grows on a tree as high as
the common cherry tree, is a fruit shaped like a
pumping, being yellow when ripe; and those of
them that are right good, are inconceivably delicious
: some of them are indeed flourish and astringent;
when cut thro the middle, a liar is found
figured within fide of them.

The rambuflan springs immediately from a green
bud, the tree never bearing a flower; it hangs
in clusters, of a purple colour, not unlike a
chesnut; within it is a small sone, and the pulp
has an acid agreeable taste.

There is a species of wild palm well known in
Ceylon as well as Java, called the huntsman tree,
the fruit of which yields a syrup or sugar that
is sold by the natives to the neighbouring countries.




2 6o THE VOYAGES OF

tries. From this tree may be drawn a liquor of an
Intoxicating quality, which is sweet and palatable
when boiled, otherwise it soon turns sour; the
wood of it, which they are forced to split, it being
too hard for the saw or axe, is very durable;
of its twigs the Indians make bows, and the chinese
use the leaves, which are about three inches
broad, and a yard long, indeed of fans, to cool
themselves. Upon the superficies of these leaves,,
the Malabars write letters with an iron pencil, in
such a manner, that the characters are almost indelible,
and these leaves they string together by
a hole made in the top of each, one after another,
in proper order till they have finished their subject.
These are so very lading, that water will not purify
them.

Nature scarcely affords a more beautiful sight
than a row of the trees, when in blossom, the fruit
whereof is called by the people of Java, billing-bing
; the flowers are red, of the lilly shape, and
the fruit about three inches long and an inch thick,
resembling a cucumber, quenching third, removing
any ill tate from the mouth ; and a syrup of
its juice is prescribed by physicians in case of the
blood or liver being overheated.

O

The Indian-houfe-leek is two inches long, full
of seeds like barley, and tailing rather insipidity
than otherwise ; of its leaves and dowers, which
are white and aromatic, is made a conserve which
cheers the heart and prevails again the cramp;
an extract of it is also prescribed as an antidote
again putrefaction and poisons, and is administered
particularly to those persons that have been
wounded by an arrow or weapon dipped in the
blood of the newt, called by the Dutch gekko,
which is said to give a mortal infeCtion.

The juice of the herb called by the Europeans
veronica, and by the Javanese oribat matta, allays

inflammations


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 261

inflammations in the eyes, is good again consumptions
and coughs, and is prescribed in cases of the

the Moors

and Arabians kolkas, is made a sort of meal*
which is often used indeed of rice ; but this root
mud be find diced and deemed in water, thereinto
purge out a certain dime adhering to it, the nature
whereof is poisonous. They are also boiled,
the find decoction of them being thrown away,
and then eaten by the Chinese and Malayans, with
pepper, vinegar, and oil of coco. The people of
Batavia, when besieged by the Dutch in 1629, ^ e "
ing reduced solely to subside upon this root, were
swept away in numbers by the bloody dux, of a
mod pestiferous nature.

In the talk of the hounds foot of Batavia,
there is a milky juice, a few drops of which poured
into the ear, cures any aching in that part. This
plant grows wild, and is only used medicinally ;
the Chinese call it kautfu, and the Javanese furze.

There are two sorts of the melancholy or night
tree; one sort bears a dower that expands itself immediately
after fun-set, and at fun-rife shuts itself
up; the other sort blossoms in the morning, and
loses its leaves at night.

There are many other kinds of curious vegetative
natural to the soil of Java, a review of all
which would be tedious and burthensome; wherefore
we shall proceed to an account of its land and
water animals, the latter of which we dials rd
examine and describe.


CHAP,


gravel.

Of the root of the plant called by




262 THE VOYAGES OF

CHAP. XL

Of the various sorts of fishes of say a*

T HE fieri of the fea-porpoife or hog-sibi, which
is about sixteen inches long and seven broad,
is white, and when boiled is very palatable ; the
Skin of it is thick, and covered with Bales that are
almoB impenetrable till it is dressed ; it has large
brown Aiming eyes, and a small mouth, with two
rows of teeth ; there is a sharp fin on its back,
which it can reds at pleasure, and another under
its belly, which is of a silver colour, changing, by
degrees, upon the sides, to a yellow, and being
quite brown on the back.

The Amboyna fish, so called because it is moB
peculiar to that island, is found sometimes in the
market of Batavia, and is seemed a great dainty;
it is about a span long, resembling perch both in
shape and table; the sins about its mouth are
blue, and there are blue Breaks under its head,
but the Tides of it are green and speckled. There
is the thinker, and the Bone bream; the former
takes it name from its shrinking upon the
Belli of it being cut ; the latter is often four
feet long, having large eyes, a wide red mouth,
and sins at the extremity of the tail ; it is generally
taken by a hook, being seldom or never catched
in a net.

The bald-pate is very good eating ; it is found
in rivers as well as in the sea, and its name it derives
from there being no scales upon its head or
neck, whereas the body is covered with them ;
the colour of it is grey, the mouth is spotted with
red, being very wide, and the eyes are yellow,
large, and Darling almoB out of the head.


The


MR. JOHN NIEUHOPF. 263

The sea bleak is not so long, but rather broader
than the herring, like which fish, these swim in
shoals, and are cured with fait; they are so plenty
on the coast of Malabar, that the corn-fields are
dunged with them, nor do they prove bad manure ;
it has a forked tail, with large eyes and a widemouth,
its back being green and its belly white. *
The body of the turd fish is full of brown spots;
the belly of it is blue, it delights in dirty places,
whence it derives its name; and tho it is very
sweet and good eating, it is intirely neglected; it
is very flat, being near a span long and the same
breadth.

The yellow tail has sharp prominent teeth; it
is as large as a bream, which it nearly resembles in
shape; the belly of it is mostly blue, the sins of
it are red, and the back and tail yellow.

The knelt fish is a sort of pike, with a mouth
full of sharp teeth, and very bright eyes ; it is about
a foot and a half long, thick and plump, with
a brown back and a purple tail and belly ; it tastes
well, and swims very swiftly.

The raven is a firm fait-water fish, about a span
long, with a red back and tail, a yellow belly, and
two yellow breaks on each side, which vanish by
degrees; it takes its name from its mouth being
something like a ravens bill.

The king fish is very voracious ; its mouth is
wide, and it feeds upon carrion; the belly of it >
is white, and its back and sides spotted brown :
some of them are five feet long; their tails are
forked, and they are called king's fish by way of
pre-eminence, being reckoned one of the most
wholesome, as well as most loathsome fishes of the
Indies.

They have several sorts of eels upon this coast,
many of which, tho eaten by the natives, are
thought to be species of water-serpents; the

mob*




%64 THE.VOYAGES OF

mos remarkable among these is one that delights
in rocky places, having a long head, and teeth
very sharp, but so small they are scarce discernible
; thole who kill, or excoriate this eel, are
seized immediately with a trembling, and often
with a fainting, from whence it may be inferred,
and not unjust, that there is something poisonous
in the nature of this fish, which it drives to exert
when in the pangs of death.

The skin of the sea cock life's like f ever, and
its sins are red, there being five long ones, of different
dimensions, on its back; it has a forked
tail of a brown colour, and the belly of it is yellow
; it is rather a monster than a fish, being
strangely shaped, very broad and thick, and the
greatest part of it being head.

The grunting fish is a small plump fish, freaked
with brown and yellow, and taking its name from
a growling noise made by it when taken.

There is another kind of grunting fish, the
body whereof is almost round, with a smooth
brown skin, freaked with black; it has a short
thick head, a large mouth and red eyes. .

The fea-loufe is a shell fish, seldom eaten by
the Chinese or Javanese; it is about a foot long,
very lumpy, with a large tail and several legs.

Across the middle of the back of the elephants nose,
which is prettily spotted, runs a broad freak; it is a
thick salt-water fish, in taf e like a smelt, but of an
odd shape, with the under jaw as sharp as a pin.

The belly of thejacob emerson is blue, the body
of it is brown, and near the head and tail are
many red spots ; this fish is often ten feet long,
and weighs, perhaps, four hundred pounds.

The crooked back, so called from its wry shape,
is a very delicate fish; the tail and sins of it are
yellow, and its skin is smooth, free from scales :
the common length of it is four feet.


The


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 26$

The horn fish is about a foot long, above one
half of the body being taken up by the head, the
mouth whereof is very small; it appears variously
coloured, according to the different reflections of
light from its body its skin is very bright, its
sins and tail yellow ; the belly and the back inclining
to a blue.

On the top of the head of the horn fish is one
horn, and two underneath it, which are so very brittle
and poisonous, that if they leave a wound, there
are ten chances to one against its being healed at
any rate.

The flounders of this country differ from ours
only in their having teeth, wherewith they fasten
upon any thing within their reach.

The flac-fish is about a foot long ; it is found in
fresh water, without scales, and its skin is smooth,
- shining like silver ; it has a small sin on the back,
one on each side, and a fourth under the belly,
which it uses instead of a tail ; it is full of small
bones, therefore not much sought after.

The red fish, so called from being of a dark red
colour, has a long sharp head, yellow eyes, a thick
body, and a blue belly ; it is a sort of bream, generally
about four feet long.

The parrot-fish is seldom more than a foot long ;
it is firm and well tailed ; its name it sakes from
the similitude of its' mouth (the inside whereof is
armed with teeth) to a parrots bill; with this it
not only bites off the hooks that happen to
lay hold of it, but also cracks the shells of oysters
and muscles, to come at the meat contained
within them, whereof it is very fond ; it is of a
green colour, chequered with yellow, but more
particularly near the head; the eyes of this fish
are large and sprightly, being of a bright blue.


encircled with yellow

j

lour.

Vol.IV.


its sins arc of the lame co-the





N







266 THE VOYAGES OF

The sins and belly of the Ihort-nofe are yellow %
it talks like a haddock; the body of it is round, and
the mouth lies just under its nose, which is extremely
short.

The bone-fill has a forked tail and broad
scales; it differs from a carp no where but in the
head; it is disregarded because of its being very
bony.

The fand-fmelt is a well flavoured sea-fish,
shaped like a whiting, with a round body and a
yellow belly.

The pock-fill is very long, with a forked tail,
and very sharp teeth ; it has no scales, but a very
bright smooth finn, that assumes various colours
from its various positions with respect to light, appearing
comedies to be red, sometimes blue, sometimes
green, &c„

The pit-fish is very nimble, and will spring to a
good distance ; it is of the size of a large smelt, with
a round body, full of green and yellow spots ; the
eyes seem ready to start from their sockets; but
the animal can draw them in considerably ; there
are (harp-pointed sins on its back, and it is a well-tasted
fish, though delighting in muddy places.

TheChinefe-fifh is catched in freshwater ; iris
round, and about a span long, having a long tail,
Small eyes, with a white belly and a green back.

The mullet, which is a very fine fish, being found
only in some certain parts of India, is, when dried
and cured, transported to others, when in season ;
it Is one of the molt delicate fillies that can be
eaten, except at a particular time of the year,
when they are pestered with worms ; therein of the
mullet is white, beautifully chequered with purple:
this sill is a very nimble swimmer, and so active,
that it will bound not only over the net, but even
over the fusing-boat.


The




MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 267

The fea-fnipe is about five feet long, having a
head like a hog, with large bright eyes, and a
mouth like a snipes bill; the body of it, from head
to foot, is spotted variously, and covered with sins.

The foret is six or seven feet long, with eyes of
a bright yellow, and sins that look like silver; the
tail of it forked, and the belly blue, inclining to
green: it is a great refreshment to sailors, being
well flavoured and wholsome.

The sea-devils have eyes on one side, and the
mouth in the concavity below the head; the tail
is like that of a roach, with two teats on each side,
pointed towards the end; the Ann on the head is
full of brown spots ; some are near seven or eight
feet long, but afford very coarse food.

The flip fish has a skin full of spots, is well
tailed, and taken generally with hooks, near the
Hie of St. Vincent.

The sea pigeon has got its name from the resemblance
of its head to that of a pigeon, and from
its breasts protuberant like those creatures : this
sill is without scales, but not without divers spots ;
it is but rarely catched, and none of the belt tailed.


The sea hedge-hog is justly so called from its
sharp fins about the head and mouth, which is
round, and has very large eyes ; they cant swim
very swiftly, and consequently would soon fall a
prey to other fish, were it not that nature has armed
them with these pointed fins.

The suckers are blue, with bright yellow eyes,
a smooth skin without scales ; they have no teeth,
but broad lips, wherewith they will suck and adhere
so close to other fill, that they will rather be
killed than let go their hold ; they will slick so
close to the (hark, that they are often catched with
them : they are eaten sometimes for want of better
food, and are but of an indifferent tasse.

N 2


Some





6i


68 THE VOYAGES OF

Some sharks are eight, ten, or fourteen feet long;
their finn is rough and sharp, and they have a
double row of teeth, and some three or four rows,
which are covered with the gums; their eyes lie
forward near the mouth : it is a very pernicious
fish, which oftentimes bites off an arm or a leg of
thole that divert themfelveswithfwimming. The
sharks bring forth their young ones alive, which
follow the she shark wherever she goes, and in bad
weather creep into her belly, and come out again
after the dorm is over. It is observable, that certain
fifties, of a foot long, always swim after the
shark, which are plainly to be seen in hill weather.

The lip fish, or soldiers fish, is a kind of bream,
but sometimes grows not above the length of a
span ; it is hat, and of a pale colour ; on the back
it has sharp fins like a roach, a sharp tail, and
yellow eyes : it is one of the bel fifties in the Indies,
of a very delicious tale.

The sea-eagle is an odd kind of fish; it has a
tail like a roach, with large fins like wings, a thickhead,
and tales like a roach.


CHAP. XII.

Of the fishes of Java continued*

T il E sea-cat is a round fish, a span in
length, of a very odd shape; the hinder-most
part of the body being an oval lump, on
which hangs the head ; it has long and large eyes,
a smooth skin, inclining to blue, but brown upon
the belly. The entrails of this fish contain a certain
gum, out of which the Chinese make their
ink : they dry this fish in the fun, as the Dutch do
the plane, and it is in great request among the Indians,
tho of no easy chgefiion,


The




MR. JOHN MI EU HOFF. 269

The leaping-fish is so called, because they leap
and play continually upon the surface of the water ;
they are of the bigness of a herring, and are without
sins on the back, from the head to the tail ;
they have a knotty head, and the body of a greyish
colour, with black spots ; but towards the belly they
begin to be white; they look very fierce before
they begin to leap: they are sea-fights, and of a
very good taste, especially broiled.

The fish pampas is above a foot long, and about
a span in breadth ; for the rest, in colour and shape
not unlike our plaise, with a smooth skin ; the eyes
stand on both Tides,and the mouth straight forwards ;
it is a well tailed fish, especially if dried and eaten
as the Dutch do plaise.

Peyxe-kok, i. e. the fish-cock, so called by the
Portuguese, because, when taken, it makes a noise
or sound like a cock * it is taken near the ;fie of
St. Vincent, and is but an indifferent fish.

The blowers are huge fifties, which appear now
and then in the open sea ; they have got this name
• from their drawing in of the water, and spouting
it out again with great force into the air.

The white fish is about the bigness of a whiting,
with around hanging belly, a straight back and
turned up mouth ; its tail is forked; it has one
barge sin upon the back, and abundance of small
ones betwixt the belly and the tail; it is full of
streaks all over the body, and on the mouth it has
two long teats ; it is of a very good taste.

The five-finger fish has got its name from five
black spots on each side, resembling the prints of
fingers : its length is about a foot and a half, with
a small head, large mouth, and brown pointed fins
towards the tail ; it is of a shining blue colour,
mixed with purple, without scales ; it is of a pretty
good taste, and taken in the sea all over the Indies.


■ N 3 Kappa,






ago THE VOYAGES OF

Kappa, or round-filii, is not unlike a whiting,
of a very good taste ; it has but a small head and
tail, but a pretty bulky belly ; below it has some
tins not unlike those of an eel.

Some of the flying-fish are near as big as a corvette,
of a bluish colour on the back, but inclining
to a brown towards the tail; they have large
eyes, and large yellowish fins, resembling in shape
our smelts ; they are of an agreeable taste, but not
easy to be catched, except when they fly again ft
the sails, which they frequently do, and so fall upon
the slips deck.

The fork-tail is a long and round fish, with a
very long forked tail, whence it has got its name ;
its head is not unlike that of a herring, with a
long teat on the top of it, and two more below,
near the mouth, like those of the shrimps, but
larger.; they keep them close to the body when
they are swimming ; they are of the bigness of a
mackarel, but of no extraordinary good taste.

The bonitos are not unlike the creates, but with
idler sins, and blue breaks* which vanish by degrees
towards the tail ; the back is of a dark
brown, and the belly white ; the eyes blue, surrounded
with a yellow circle ; some are a foot and
half long, and very bright when first taken, which
is done without much difficulty, because they follow
the ships, and are very greedy after a bait; they
eat befit if they are faked a little before they are
broiled.

The swordfish has a very odd head, not unlike
that of an owl, with a very wide mouth ; the skin
is hard, the back grey, the belly white, without
any scales: on each side of the sword, which is
above five feet long, are twenty-seven teeth ; their
whole length, including the sword, is generally
twenty-five feet, and so thick, that scarce two
men can grasp them: near the eyes they have two

nominis.


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 271

nostrils, thro which they draw the water in and

out.

The fish called flap by the Javanese, is a river
fill in great request among them, and is taken in
confiderable quantities near Batavia.

The pyed-fifh has got its name from its colour;
its tail and sins being brown, spotted with pale blue
spots; it is about a foot long, and pretty thick,
without scales ; the eyes, which are yellow, are
surrounded by a blue circle; underneath the throat
hangs a crop, extending itself to the tail; it has a
little mouth, and on each side a yellow sin : it is
in great esteem among the inhabitants, and well
tailed, but contains a certain venomous matter,
which muss be carefully taken out when they are
gutted.

The five-eyes have got their name from five black
eyes, inclosed in yellow circles, which are in the
fins near the tail; they are smooth and yellow,
without scales, pretty thick, with a small head and
sharp nose, which turns over the mouth, near
which they have two red fins 5 they are catcher! in
the rivers and are w T ell tailed.

The sea-bat has got its name from its resemblance
to a bat; it has two yellowish wings streaked
with three blue Breaks, a long tail, thick head,
and large mouth ; by its tasse it seems to be a kind
of thornback.

The gudgeons of Java are of the length of a
finger, but scarce an inch thick; they are speckled
with pale blue and other colours, without scales ;
they have small forked tails, are watched in the rivers,
and are exceeding well tailed ; there is another
kind of them taken in the sea, in such prodigious
quantities, that they fell a whole canoe full
for eight-pence or ten-pence, and fatten their
ducks and geese with them.

N 4


The


272 THE VOYAGES OF

The Indian carps are taken in the rivers, being
not in the lead: different from ours, either in shape
or tasse.

The sea monster is an odd kind of fiSh, having
a knobby fair upon the head, and upon that a certain
excrescence resembling a bishops mitre ; from
the Sides of the head issue two sins of the same
length with the body of the m on tier; it has a
dreadful wide mouth, and a broad tail, wherewith
It guides itself in swimming.

They have divers sorts of Shrimps and cray
fishes in the Indies ; and of the latter sort a certain
kind which has teeth like a saw on the back ;
some of them are of that bigness as to weigh six
pounds, of a delicious tasse, and very wholesome,
being accounted good for such as are troubled with
the asthma, or (pitting of blood. The feafhrimps
are a salt-water fiSh, the biggest of which are near
a span in length, and have Shells like ours, of a sallow
colour, with a red forked tail : out of the
head come forth divers sins, on which hang two
fro all thin horns ; they are very well tailed, and
five or six are sufficient for one mans meal.

The river Shrimps are about the bigness of our sea
Shrimps, of a blue colour, with small head and thick
body ; out of the head come two long sins, as fine
as a thread ; their Shell is not so hard as the
former, neither are they so well tailed. The rivers
here afford also abundance of cray-fiShes,
which are taken in holes among the offers ; they
are better tailed than our lobsters.

The sea-bear is an odd Shaped fish, with five
branches, forming a star ; they are of a pale red
colour, an inch thick, covered with a knobby
Skin, underneath which are many finally bones •
they have a hole in the middle, thro" which they
draw their sufferance 5 they are never to be seen

at


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 27?

at sea, except in calm weather, and are taken and
kept rather for curiosity sake than any other
use.

The sea crabs are in length about a span, of
a moll curious colour, the shell being Speckled
with yellow spots ; besides which, they have
three purple spots enclosed within white rings.
Their claws are yellowish towards the body,
afterwards white, and at the extremities of a
high purple colour; their eyes are fixed without
the head.

There is also a kind of blue crabs, some of
which are a foot and a half long. They are of a
purple colour, spotted with white. The claws
are blue, and of a purple colour towards the
body. Their eyes, like those of the former, band
a fingers length without the head. They are a
fait-water fish, and very w r ell tailed.

There is another kind of lobsters, not quite so
large as the former, which run very swiftly.
Their eyes hand likewise about two inches breadth
without the head, especially whilst they are running,
but other wise they can draw them back, and
lay them close under two sins. Their bodies are
marbled with divers colours, the claws of a purple
hue; behind, they have two small round and
blue shells, edged with yellow. Some are of a
confiderable bigness, and of a very good table.

There is another sort of sea crabs, of the same
bigness as the blue, lobsters, but easily to distinguished
from them by their colour, which inclines
to a green ; their claws are red, and their table is
exceeding delicious. ■ Their eyes hand likewise an
inches breadth without the head Some fear
crabs here are of a prodigious bigness, and, like
all other shellfish, best in the increase of the
moon Some crabs here call their snails, and turn

5 ing


THE VOYAGES OF


ing a certain season of the year, abide under ground
till they grow again.

The Indian oysters are preferred before thereof
Europe.

The muscles of the Indies are like ours, but
somewhat larger; the shell is brown both in and
outside. There is another sort of muscles called
tail muscles by our people, these are of a greenish
Colour. They have on that end where they open,
two sharp horns, and on the other end, a pale yellow
tail, wherewith they can fallen themselves in
the mud. They are of the same taste, and used
like ours, as well as those we commonly call St.
James muscles. Of oysters, they have also several
sorts, the largest adhere to the rocks, others to
the roots of the trees that grow in the water.
They are all of a very good taste, and are either
stewed with spices, or eaten raw with lemon juice
and pepper.

Abundance of purple snails are found in the
ill arid s over against Batavia. The scallop or shell
is of a yellow colour, of the bigness of a good
citron, with various breathing at one end. Within
this shell is the snail, which is round, plump, and
yellow, streaked with black. They are boiled
and eaten by the Chinese, who have a way of pot
thing the hells, and pick out of the middle of
the snail a certain purple coloured substance,
which they life in making and colouring red
ink. There is also another kind with green stills,
streaked with black, white within, and of the
size of a child's head. The snail is of the same
colour, and not ill tailed. Another sort has a
still of a pale red colour, marbled with white,
and curiously twilled, of the bigness of an orange ,
the snail is of the same colour eaten as we do
our periwinkles, but hard of digestion.

The


MR. J OH H NIEtTHOFF.

The fallen are a certain products of the sea, of
a mucilaginous substance, without head, tail, or
entrails. They commonly are of the bigness of a
trencher, tho sometimes less. They have purple
edges all round them, wherewith they swim. In
the midst is a certain spot, which is sometimes
white, at other times blue, wherein, perhaps, their
victuals are contained. If they are forced ashore,
they are disordered. The Chinese have a certain
way of distilling arrack, or firing water, out of
them, which is excessive hot, sharp, and unwholesome,
causing ulcerations in the body. For if
this fubfhmce happens to adhere to the bare (kin of
a man in swimming or otherwise, it burns with
great violence, and raises blisters immediately.

The comrades, by some called sea breams, area
kind of dolphins. They have long and (harp fins
on the back, and a very long tail; underneath the
belly, they have three sins, the last of which extends
as far as the tail. Some are four or five feet
long, and rather broad than thick. They eat tolerably
well, if salted before they are dressed ; but
are hard of digestion. They are sometimes taken
with the hook, but not easily catched with
the harpoon, by reason of their nimbleness, which
is Inch, that they will sometimes leap five or six
feet high above the water, after the flying-fish.

The Indies afford excessive long thornbacks,
some of which are as big in circumference as a moderate
table, and will iiifEce to dine forty people.
They have vas long tails, but are of the fameco-
lour with ours, of the same taste, and hard of digestion;
tho the young ones are much better.
Their sins, which are very large, are of a purple
colour. All finn with leaks caff their spawn, but
those without females, bring forth their young ones
alive.

N 6


C H A P.


THE VOYAGES OF


CHAP. XIII.

Of the birds ardour-footed beasts of Java.

I N the ides of Sumatra, Banda, and the other
Molucca hands, is to be found a certain
bird, called men, or ene, by the inhabitants,
and canaries by the Dutch. He walks constantly
with his head draught upright; he is about five
feet high, and about three in length from the
bread to the tail. The head is in proportion to
the body, but small, very smooth, and of a dark
blue colour. Before on the neck, hang two red
teats or bags. The eyes are large and fierce ; behind
these are the ear-holes, and aimed at the extremity
of the bill two nostrils ; from the mind of
the bill to the crown of the head, grows a hard
yellow substance like a cockle-dwell, especially in
the males. They have very long and thick legs,
covered with a yellowish rough skin; their feet
are thick, knobby, and without spurs, indeed of
which, they have on the forepart three long
horny claws, in which they differ from the oft
riches, whose feet are cloven both before and behind.
They are covered all over with feathers, or
rather with plumes, of a dark red mixed with
black. Thole upon the bread and thighs grow
two and two together, but those on the tail are
much longer and stronger.

Underneath the feathers, which grow on both does,
are hidden certain pins, which, by simulating, serve
them in running; for these birds are scarce able to
raise themselves from the ground. They tire exceeding
greedy, devouring every thing they meet with,
even to iron and burning coals, all which they evacuate
by the intestines without any alteration; nay, they

7 sometimes


MR. JOHN N I EU HOFF. 277

sometimes throw out what they have eat, In a year
after, without the least signs of having digested it.
For the rest, they live upon herbage. Their
strength counts in their legs and feet; they run so
fast, that no man can overtake them, and when
exasperated, kick with their feet backwards and
Sideways like a horse. They lay greenish eggs
upon the ground among the shrubs, scarce so big
as our hens egg, speckled with dark green spot.
The yolks thereof are eaten by the inhabitants.
These have neither tongue nor tail.

Among the several sorts of flitter mice, or bats,
that which by some is called a flying cat, may well
challenge a place. Its head, tail, nay the whole
body and bulk resembling a cat. It differs from
the bats in this, that whereas they hang on certain
tacks, this hangs on its claws, and hides itself
within its wings. The hair is of a brownish red
colour, except on the back, where it is black.
Betwixt the fore and hind legs, grow two membranes,
a little hairy on the outside, which serve
them for wings

There is alfofound a sort of flying-apes* these
have very sharp teeth and claws, and very lively
eyes.

In some parts of the Indies, you meet with a
certain bird called the hunters bird. The breast:
and the whole body of it is black, but the tail is
greyish. The head is dark yellow, but without
feathers. Below the neck hangs a bag, not unlike
those of our turkeys ; the bill is distinguished by
certain twisted rings, by which they discern their
age, every year producing one, like our oxus horns.
On the top of the bill, grows a horny substance;
they are looked upon as a rarity, and sold at a dear
rate.

In the isle of Mauritius, you meet with a certain
bird called dronte by the inhabitants, and lodgers

by


273 THE VOYAGES OF

by the Dutch. In size, it is betwixt an ostrich
and a large turkey, and has also some resemblance
to them in his feathers and tail. His head is very
large, not unlike that of a cuckoo; but covered
all over with a skin. The eyes are large and black,
the neck crooked and very thick. The bill is long,
thick, and of a pale blue colour, except towards
the extremities, the uppermost whereof is blackish,
and the undermost yellowish : but both Sharp
and bent. He is very thick and round of body,
covered with soft grey feathers, like those of the
ostrich. The belly and hindermoff part are so
thick, as to touch almost the ground, which is the
reason he is easily catched. On both hides, he
has certain quills instead of wings, of a pale yellow
hue, and instead of the tail, five curled
plumes of the same colour. His legs are ftiort
and thick, with four large claws. The meat, especially
that of the breast, is fat and loathsome
enough, and three or four of these creatures afford
a meal for one hundred persons. In his stomach
is sometimes found a porous hard Hone.

The parasites are of a green colour, of the
bigness of a flaring; their bills are yellow, the
neck red, mixed with green, and the wings yellow
at the extremities. They are found in vast
numbers in the woods, and are easily tamed and
taught to speak. There are divers sorts of them,
of different colours.

The martins here are as big as our magpies, of a
black colour, with a yellow bill, and a yellow tuft
upon the head. The middle part of the wings is
white, the feet yellow, with large crooked days.
The Javanese are great admirers of this bird, and
teach him to whiffle and speak, which he does as
distinctly as a man, but with somewhat a rougher
voice. There is another sort of thorn not so big

as


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 279

as these, found all over the Indies, which feed
upon rice and other fruits of the earth.

The Indian crows are of a pale blue, in shape
between a heron and stork. The head and neck is
somewhat of a dark colour, with a curled tail
and sharp bill. They live most in wildernesses,
and make excursions, as they say, sometimes as far
as Europe, under a certain chief, which flies some
times before and sometimes behind.

The bird rubus is of the bigness of a darling,
with a blue bill and legs, the back and tail red,
and white and black wings. The head is green,
and in his tail he has two large feathers, like the
paradise birds.

In divers parts of the Indies, are very large
bats, exceeding in bigness our cats. In the isle of
Java, are feme of the ordinary sort, no bigger
than a pigeon ; they live in the woods, and are accounted
a dainty by the Javanese. In the nighttime,
they will get sometimes into the chambers,
if the windows be left open, and draw blood from
such as are asleep there.

There are two sorts of the bird called gwira;
both which are white, mixed with some brown feathers.
One sort has a red belly, and the other a
blue tall with one very long feather in it.

The piero is a long but slender bird, of a span
in length, including the bill and tail. The bill is
somewhat crooked, and the tail like that of the
bird gwira. His feathers are bluish, mixed with
yellow, and his feet very small. He feeds upon
pifmires.

In Java, you meet often with cormorants, not
unlike our geese, except that they are much larger.
Underneath their bill, hangs a large bag, which they
can extend and draw together at pleasure, and in it
they keep such Hfh as they have swallowed. Their
feet are like those cf the swan, and their bills are

crooked


2 8 o THE VOYAGES OF

crooked towards the extremities. They are fa
greedy after prey, that they rush out from among
the flags with such violence, that they are easily
taken. They swallow fishers with the shells, and
keep them in their bags till they open, when they
spew them out again, and pick out the oysters. They
are frequently found in the islands Din Ding, and
soon discovered by their noise

All over the Indies, you meet with ducks ill
great numbers, resembling ours both in flee
and table. They are generally of a dark yellow
colour, with black bills and legs, large bellies, and
tufts on their heads. But whereas the West India
ducks have hanging bellies, these carry them more
upright. By reason of the excessive heat they are
not easily brought to lit upon their eggs, which
are generally laid under hens, or fomented in
horfedung or ovens. Their meat is very wholesome.
provided they are well fed*

The wide-bill has got his name from his bill,
which reaches up on both Aides to the eyes. He.
is scarce of the bigness of a pigeon, of a pale,
black colour, with black wings, and underneath
the eyes and bill he is white. They are brought
to market in great quantities at Batavia, their meat
being well tailed.

The strand bird is a kind of snipe, of the big
nefs of our woodcocks. Their feathers are green
mixed with black ; they are sold in great numbers
at Batavia; and in taste are not unlike our wood-snipes.


The Indian turtles are not altogether so big as
ours, and of a yellowish colour, mixed with grey.
They have a black feather in each wing; under,
the neck they are somewhat brighter, and the
bread ahnoA red. They are taken in great quantities
in the rice fields, and are fat and well tailed.


MR. JOHN NiEUHOFF. 281-

The Indian geese are much finer and larger than
those of Europe, resembling rather our swans;
their necks being excessive long, of a yellowish
colour, but their bills black. Along the back,
upon the wings and tail, they have dark grey feathers
mixed with some light ones ; but on the belly
they are white. They have not so shrill a voice as
our geese, but differ not in the leaf! from them either
in shape or table ; their feet being likewise red.
They have both wild and tame ones.

In divers places of the Indies, are great quantities
of birds of prey, as eagles, hawks, kites, and
such like, which do prodigious mischief both
among the wild and tame fowl, and are of such
strength, that they carry sometimes young pigs
away, and devour them in the woods among the
rocks.

There is a certain bird of prey here which you
see moving in the air without Aiming its wings ;
and another called sin by the Chinese, exceeding
all the reA in nimbleness. It is greenish on the
back, but white on the belly. The eyes are quick
and red, and the bill yellow, bent like a hook at
the end. Their feet are likewise yellow, armed
with long and very sharp claws.

The hobby is the leaf!; of ail the birds, being
no bigger than a horse-fly. It has a very sharp
bill, wherewith it sucks its sustenance out of the
flowers, tho some are of opinion it feeds upon
the dew. It has all the colours of the rainbow,
and its wings are not unlike those of pigeons or
ducks. It builds a neA to the south, under the
branches of orange, lemon, or cotton trees, to defend
itself again the injuries of the north winds.
Its eggs are no bigger than pease. There is another
which lings exceeding fine, but is not so well
coloured ; it weighs not above, twenty-four grains.

Die


282 THE VOYAGES OF

The kokoy is a kind of heron, but much exceeding
ours in beauty, being yellow before and
green behind. On the head, it has a delicious
plume, spreading all over the neck. The young
ones eat tolerably well, but the old ones are tough
and have a fishy tasse.

In the woods of java, you see vast numbers of
birds not unlike our quails, but of the bigness of
a wild pigeon. Their bills are however somewhat
longer than those of quails, and their noise is very
different. They are of so cold a constitution, that
if exposed on the ground, they are in danger of
perishing • for which reason, they hide themselves,
covered with their wings, in the hollows of trees,
immediately after fun-set, and at fun-rifmg come
forth again, and begin to chirp with great cheerfulness.


CHAP. XIV.

Of the birds, &c. of Java continued .

T H E Indian quails resemble those of Europe,
are brown on the back, and blue on the
belly. They have a yellow bill and four claws,
viz. three before and one behind; they do not
make any noise, but are very good meat.

The rice bird is of the bigness of one of our
pullets, but something longer legged, with brown
feathers on the body, a red head, and very large
claws. They live among the rice, whence they
take their name, and are delicious food whenroafted.

In many parts of the Indies are also pheasants
with long and pointed tails ; force are white on the
bread; and about the eyes.

They have prodigious numbers of butterflies of
various colours, having long bills, which they can
stretch out, when they suck the juice of the flowers.



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 283

hers, or draw back at pleasure. Some of them are
of a moil beautiful colour, intermixed with blue,
white, and red, beyond what can be expressed.
They are generally of the bigness of the palm of
the hand, when their wings are spread. Some
have larger wings than others, and have two small
feathers on their heads.

The Indian wood pigeons are of the bigness of
our tame pigeons, with brown spots on their backs,
a white belly, purple coloured breast, and red
feet; when tamed they will breed in houses, are
not unlike our turtle doves, being very delicate
roasted, and living molly in the woods.

Indian pullets are generally white, with bright
red combs on their heads, long red tails, and feet
covered with feathers ; they were first brought hither
from Sum and Batavia, and eat well, being
about the size of a common tame pigeon. In this
island, there is also a kind of fowl with the feathers
pointing towards the head instead of the
tail ; and another sort covered intirely with feathers.


About Batavia, and many other parts of the
Indies, abundance of herons are to be seen in the
low grounds. They are in bigness the same with
our herons, with long grey feathers and black
wings. They are generally seen near the water
side, looking for prey ; they build their nests in
trees; the meat of them being tough, and tailing
of hfh.

The jumpers have got their names from their
continually moving from branch to branch. They
are of the same bigness with black birds, and will
whistle like them. They have a black head,
wings, and tail, but are white on the breast and
belly. Our author has seen them kept at Batavia
with a chain on one leg for diversion, and

they


284 THE VOYAGES OF

they feed them with boiled rice. They are easily
tamed.

The dock-doves are in shape and bigness like
our pigeons, but of a much finer colour. The
neck and bread are green, the red of the body
purple coloured ; the tail and wings blue, with a
white edge. They are catched in great numbers
in the woods near Batavia, and eat very well
loaded.

The gold-finches here are very agreeable for
their fine coloured feathers, being for the red no
longer than our linnets or gold-finches. Their
bill is of a pale red, the head white, the back and
wings blue, the belly red, and the tail dark blue.
They are taken in prodigious great quantities near
Batavia, and sometimes kept in cages. They feed
upon rice.

At Batavia you see often large scorpions, of a
quarter of a yard long, but those of a leader size
are so frequent, that you can scarce move a cool,
bench, shed, lookinglafs, or picture, without being
in danger of being dung by them, unless you
be very careful to avoid them. The small ones
are about a fingers length, composed of many
joints, of the thickness of a goose quill. They
are yellow, speckled with brown dreams. Before,
they have two claws with two sharp pincers ; their
tail is long, and lies turned upon the back, at the'
end of which is the ding, wherewith they poison
such as they touch. They have eight long legs,
not unlike those of a cray-fish. The ding of a
scorpion is accounted mortal, unless prevented in a
little time ; tho some are of opinion that the scorn
pions in the Indies are not so venomous as those of
Italy and Spain. A scorpion bruised so death, or
dished in oil, and applied to the wound, draws out
the poison. They say that a radii sliced, and
laid upon a scorpion, kills him in a minute. They

have


MR, JOHN NIEUHOFF. 2S5

have also another flory, viz. that the scorpion is
sometimes so pestered with pifmires, that he flings
himself to death in. the head with his tail; and so
becomes a prey to the pifmires.

The mille pedes are about five or six inches
long, of the thickness of a mans linger, of a ruddy
colour, and composed of many joints and bones.
They have two claws or pincers, wherewith they
wound as dangerously as the scorpions; occasioning
such violent pain as it is almost unspeakable. The
cure is performed by stifling them with oil, like
the scorpions, and they are generally found, like
them, in holes, and behind benches.

Both the Earl and West Indies produce snakes
of divers flies and colours. Among others, they
have a certain sort in the isle of Java, not exceeding
a foot in length, which are frequently met within
the fields among the grass. They have others
with large Lining scales on the back, and eyes so
bright, that in a fun-shiny day you may see them
at a great distance. Others are so full of spots,
that they are terrible to behold. Besides these ?
they have another kind of snakes much lesser than
the field snakes ; these dwell in houses, and feed
upon flies, ants, and other insects. They will
flick so close to wall or roof, as if they were immoveable
; but no sooner perceive their prey, but
they shoot down all on a sudden to catch it. The
tail of a snake separated from the body, will grow
to it again. These snakes are not in the least pernicious,
and will pass over the bare faces of persons
sleeping in their chambers, without doing the
least harm.

In the woods of Java, as likewise in the fens
and pools, is found a certain sort of snake, or rather
crocodile, called iegoaen by the Indians. It
resembles altogether a crocodile, except that it is
less, being not above five or six feet long ■ whereas



286 THE VOYAGES OF

as crocodiles are from fifteen to twenty feet. The
Javanese however affirm, that those In the mountains
are much larger. They have a knobby green
skin, but the meat is white, like that of our rabbets,
and very well tailed. They have a long
head, wide mouth, and a tail as long as the whole
body; each leg has four paws armed with sharp
and long claws.

In the woods of java, are certain flying snakes ;
they have four legs, a long tail, and their skin
speckled with many spots. Their wings are not
unlike those of bats, which they move in flying,
but otherwise keep them almost unperceived close
to the body. They fly nimbly, but cannot hold
it long. On the outside of the throat are two
bladders, which, being extended when they fly,
serve them instead of a sail. They feed upon flies
and other infests. The Javanese do not in the 1-east
account them poisonous, but handle them just like
the common snakes, without the least danger.

The frogs here are about the same bigness with
ours, of a dark yellow colour, with brown spots.
They are sold daily in the markets of Batavia, the
Chinese accounting them a dainty, but they eat only
the hinder moil parts. There is another sort of frogs
hin Java near as big as a rabbet, but these are not
eaten. They make a noise like the bellowing of
an ox.

The fire-flies have got their name, because
they appear in the dark, stuffing like a light; and
are catched by means of a lire or candle, thro
which they will fly till they are taken. They are
about an inch broadcast longs and sometimes
bigger. The head, which is brown, has two small
horns, the neck is red, but their hard wings brown,
underneath which, they have two softer wings,
which they make use of in flying; and then it is
you discover that filming substance which is contained



MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 2 $ 7

gained in a black bladder on their backs, which
they hide with their wings whilst they are not a
Hying. In the rainy season, they dwell in prodigious
numbers among the trees, and draw their chief
sustenance from the blossom. There are divers
sorts of them.

The horse-flies here are a pernicious infeft,
which fling mo ft furiously. They are about two
inches broad and long, of a brown colour, with a
yellow streak along the body. They build their
nests very curiously on the roof or rafters, as the
wasps do on the sprigs of trees: in these they lay
their eggs and hatch their young ones. They
feed upon fruits, and emit a most nauseous scent
when killed,

The kakkerlakken are so called by a corrupted
name from the Portuguese. word kakalakkas, because
their eggs are both in colour and smoothness
like to the lucca. They are much of the same
bigness with the horse-flies, of a brown colour,
with two long horns on the head. They both
run and fly very nimbly, and are very pernicious,
there being no chest or trunk so strong but they
will gnaw thro it. They are also to be found in
ships, tho newly built, in their way from Europe,
especially at the time of their passing under the
line; when the lice die, these begin to appear ;
and in their return, as soon as they are palled the
line again, and the lice appear, these begin to vanish
by degrees. They are very pernicious to
paper, linen, and woollen cloaths.

The jakalet is a mischievous insect, but only in
the lower parts of the houses, delighting in moist
ground. n

About Batavia you find a kind of locusts of a
fingers length, but no thicker than a pen or goose
distinguished by divers joints. They walk
upon six feet, and have two small horns. The

locusts


283 THE VOYAGES OF

locusts here are however of divers kinds; some are
yellow on the belly, with brown wings, and two
horns on the head. They can leap a great way,
and fly together in great numbers. There is another
sort of the same shape, but green, and of a
fingers length. These come sometimes in such
prodigious swarms, that they darken the sky as
they pass, and devoured in thole parts where
they settle, so that the inhabitants are often obliged
to change their habitations for want of sustenance,
as it has happened frequently in China, and the
ille of Jajowak.

The Miller-drawers are so called, because when
they fling they raise Millers. They are of divers
forts,' varying both in colour and bigness, but commonly
of the length and breadth of a finger.
They have very large eyes, and delight in marly
places. They are moll frequent at Batavia in October
and November.

There is here a kind of hornets, that have a
certain claw like a pincer on the head, wherewith
they pinch to that degree, that they will not let go
their hold, unless you cut off their heads. They
are of divers sorts, bigness, and shape, some being
above five five inches long, of a dark brown
colour. They have double wings; the uppermost
are hard, the undermost soil; the last they
make, use of in Hying, the others being only for
the defence of the undermost ones. They feed
upon herbs, and the fruits of certain trees, which
they snow how to chuse among all the well. -

Of ants or pifmires, there are in [Java, and
throughout all the Indies, prodigious quantities of
divers sorts. Some of them are above a finger in
length, of a ruddy colour, inclining to black ;
some with, others without wings. They are very
pernicious to the fruits of the earth, and, even in
the houses, scarce any thing can be preferred

against


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 289

against them without a great deal of care. It is
observable, that an ant meeting another with something
in her mouth, will give way to her, if She be
not loaded herself.

The gardens about Batavia are extremely pes*
tered with caterpillars about five inches long,
with long brown horns Handing upright on.
their heads. The head and whole body is yellowish,
but the wings inclining to a green, spotted
with yellow. They feed upon herbs and leaves*
like the locusts.

Channels or knobs is an infer that takes its
name from the knotty composition of its body,
which, as well as the feet, is of a pale green colour.
It has two fore legs covered with a hard
shell, like a crab or cray-fish. It seems to be a
kind of locust, and feeds upon greens, but can
neither fly nor run very fast. There is another
kind, with a monstrous head and neck, and a
thick body; on the innermost: part of which are
two small pins like thorns. The fore-feet are inclosed
in a hard shell, and of a very odd shape.
It has two wings, but can scarce fly by reason of
the weight of its body.

There are many sorts of spiders in the Indies,
and of a very different size; some are above
four inches long, and have very thick legs. Others
have eight feet, a thick speckled body, and roundhead,
with brown eyes. These have two teeth
bent like hooks, wherewith they bite fiercely.
Our author has seen toothpick that have been
made of their teeth. *


Vql, IV.


G


chap;




ago the voyages of


CHAP. XV.

Account of the four footed beasts of Java concluded,

T HE lynx is a fierce creature, of the bigness
of a large dog, and in shape seems to participate
both of the dog and cat. He is of a brown
colour, chequered with red, with black dreams.
His tail is very short and the ears very black. He
lives upon prey, and is extremely nimble.

The fukotyro, as the Chinese call it, is a very
odd Shaped bead. Its is of the bigness of a large
ox, with a snout like a hog, two long rough ears,
and a thick bushy tail. The eyes are placed upright
in the head, quite different from other
beads. On the side of the head next to the eyes,
(land two long horns or rather teeth, not quite so
thick as those of the elephant. It feeds upon herbage,
and is but seldom taken.

On the Cape of Good Hope, but especially in
the hie of Madagascar, are certain oxen with thick
bunches upon their necks and Shoulders, which
being nothing but fat, is melted and used by the
inhabitants like butter ; but these oxen have notfo
great a quantity of suet about their kidneys as ours.
The cows of this kind frequently bear two or
three calves at a time.

The Macassar-fox has got his name from the
fie of Macassar, where he is mod: found. He has
an excessive long bushy tail, which hands upright,
flat feet, long claws, and short ears.

In the isle of Java, are divers sorts of apes and
monkeys, distinguished by peculiar names. Some
are very small, others middle-sized, and others as
big as a boy of eight years of age; such a one our
author saw himself once at Batavia. In many parts

of


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 2 gt

of the Indies, where the inhabitants think it a
• crime to kill any living creature, they multiply to a
prodigious degree, and are very tame. They live
for the mod: part in woods, and feed upon fruits.
Some are green, \Hth a long beard and large eyebrows,
like a man in years; some called cicatrix
by the Indians, have long bushy tails ; for which
reason, they are reckoned by some among the fox
kind. There is another sort called saragossa, with
long tails, which they carry draught upright. Another
sort are called deaths-heads by the Dutch,
from their pale faces. The Suri monkeys are in
bigness and shape not unlike a squirrel, but of a
yellow colour. They have short and round ears,
large eyes, and a large bushy tail, wherewith they
can cover the whole body. They can leap at a
great distance from tree to tree, and guide themselves
with the tail so exactly, that they seem to
fly. There is a certain sort of monkey or ape,
not in the lead mischievous : they are no bigger
than a rat, but have a long tail which they carry
upright. They have a green, sort, and wooly
hair, somewhat inclining to grey about the eyes,
and a little white on the feet; with short ears, a
firarp mouth, and brown nose, the feet being like
those of an ape ; but these are very scarce* Those
called fanguwyns are likewise of the bigness of a
rat and very nimble. Their faces, heads, and
ears are black, and the red of the body of a chef-nut
colour, except that they have some dark yellow
hair along the back. They have very long
tails, feed upon fruits, and are very diverting.

The pifmire-eater or ants bear is so called, because
he feeds chiefly upon ants. There are three
several sorts of them, the sir A is of the bigness of
a young hog, the second somewhat lesser, and the
third like a cat, but longer. They are all of a

O 2 ruddy



s 9 2 THE VOYAGES OF

ruddy colour like a fox, with a long sharp mouth,
small ears, and a head like that of a pig.

Abundance of deer or flags are found in the
fresh of the Indies: they are easily to be tamed
here; so that they will feed among the cattle.
They are generally red, speckled with white, and
much of the same bigness as ours. They have
large ears, long legs, and are white underneath
the belly. The horns of the male are wreathed
towards the head, and brown and very hard towards
the extremities. Their fiefs is very well
tailed. With the deer-skins, a great traffic used
to be carried on in the isle of Tayawan, whilst the
Dutch were mailers of it; who were wont to take
many thousands of them only for their Skins fake,
which were sold to the Japanese ; and scarce to
preserve any part of their fiefs, except the tongue,
which is accounted a dainty here.

About Batavia, and in the woods of Java,
are abundance of iron pigs or porcupines.
They grant like hogs, and are covered with
variegated pens or quills, whence they got their
name. They are of different sizes, feme of
the bigness of a large dog, but somewhat longer
and more short-legged. They are generally
brown, with a grey tuft on the head and a
mouth like a hare, with two great teeth both below
and above, like a horse, the two fore-feet like
those of a deer; and the ingersoll like a bear.
The pins or pegs are very sharp, a foot long, and
chequered with black and white. When they
are at rest, they lay them close to the body, but if
they are provoked, they can, by contracting themselves,
call them forth with such strength, that
they kill man or beast; thus some years ago, a
dead lyon was found at the Cape of Good Hope,
with a porcupines pen slicking in his body, Wherewith
he had doubtless been killed. In the winter



MR, JOHN NIEUHOFF. 2p

ter they retire into holes, where they remain without
either eating or drinking. They feed upon
herbs and roots, and call their pens as other creatures
do their hair. In the Romans of some of
these animals, grows a certain Rone, which by
reason of its sudorific quality, is accounted very
good in pestilential fevers ; just as the stone found
in the velica billiards or gall-bladder of the wild
boar, is reputed the moR sovereign remedy in
that distemper, called orders by the Javanese,
and as much dreaded among them as the plague
in Europe, because it commonly kills in a few
hours.

There are several sorts of hogs in the Indies,
some with, but the moR without hair. Hogs flesh
is accounted wholesome and better than beef or
mutton, and is by the Chinese prescribed even for
sick persons. The wild boars feed upon what
fruits or roots they can meet with, and a confiderable
number of them, were seen by our author to
swim cross the water, in the isle Din Ding, near
Malacca, in search of provisions.

In the gall-bladder of the Indian wild boar,
grows a certain porous Rone, called thence piedra
da puerto ; i. e. hogs Rone, by the Portuguese.
It is sudorific, and efficacious in malignant distempers.
They Keep it in wine for twelve hours,
and give the infusion to the patients; or they give
the quantity of twenty-five grains powdered in
wines Women with child muR be cautious of it,
because it makes them miscarry, it being a general
opinion among the Malayan women, that they can
procure their monthly terms with only holding this
Rone in their hands.

The Javanese sheep are much of the same bigness
as ours, some being white, others eyed,
white and red, with Riot legs, and little or no
wool. Their meat is not fa good as the Euro*

O 3 J - • pean




294 THE VOYAGES OF

pean mutton, pork being much preferred before it
here. The sheep have sometimes teats hanging
below their throats like some of our hogs; others
have such long ears, that you may tie them together
underneath the throat. Others have tails of
twenty, thirty, or forty pounds, being one lump
of fat, which eats best boiled. Some have plain
hair like our goats, others a curled wool, like our
sheep, and are milked like cows.

The goats here are not near so big as the sheep,
nor is their flesh so well tasted; tho the kids in
some parts of the Indies afford excellent good
meat. Some are white, some eyed, and have generally
long hair. Others have very long ears,
and horns handing upright on the head. In some
places, they bear three or four young ones at a
time. They make cheese of their milk.

The bushes are bulkier and longer than an
ordinary ox. They have no hair, their flesh is
very good, but not so juicy nor so digestible as
beef; for which reason it is moA used among the
Haves and other labouring people. Their horns
lie close to the head, some of them are black,
and, when polished, are converted to several useful
purposes. The tame bushes are used in
the sugar-mills, plough, and cart. They guide
them by means of a chain drawn thro their nostrils.
Their milk is accounted very wholesome.
The wild bougies that live in the fresh are very
fierce, and not easy to be taken.

Many places of the Indies afford oxen and cows,
the flesh whereof, as well as the milk and butter.
Is very good *, some are red, others white, others
eyed, and of several colours. Some have horns
Handing upright on the head, others crooked
horns like ours ; and others long ears hanging
downwards. However, the bees is much better
in some places than in others. It is generally

eaten


MR. JOHN N IE UH OFF. 295

eaten fresh, because it will scarce take fait' well in
this hot climate, and is not to be kept above" three
or four days. They bring a certain kind of oxen
from Curate to Batavia, not much bigger than a
large dog, which looks very fierce; nevertheless,
they are used in small carts to draw children, and
sometimes merchants goods.

The horses here are of different sorts and colours,
some black, others of a chesnut colour,
and others white and grey. The Javanese horses
are not very tall, but thick and well set, like the
Norwegian or Westphalia horses, very firongand
hardy; but are not near so high spirited ^as the
Persian horses, that are transported from Curate
to Batavia, and excel all the rest in swiftness,
courage, and beauty. The Indians fight for the
moil: part on foot, and preserve their horses for
the draught and travelling.

Thus much of the isle of Java, and city of Batavia.
We will now proceed to give an account
of our authors third and lait voyage to the Bail
Indies


chap:


/





296 THE VOYAGES OF


CHAP. XVI.

Mr, "John Nieuh off's lai voyage to the East Indict*

and his death.

M R. John Nieuhoff having embarked on board
a flip in the Dutch East India company's
service, called the Arrow, they pasted by the
French coast the x8th of December, and east anchor
in the Table-bay April the 8th, 1672.
Here they met with seventeen vessels, thirteen of
which were bound from the East Indies for Holland,
and accordingly set sail the 24th. The Arrow
had on board a large fnaloop or boat, which
being taken to pieces before they left Amsterdam,
was now set together again for its more convenient
passage along the shore of Sala, Mozambique,
and the island of Motte.

In this shallop, to which they gave the name
of the Bow, they embarked, and in company of
the Arrow, prosecuted their voyage towards the
isle of Madagascar, which they got first sight of
the 20th. They kept along the chaff, which was
high and rocky, and near a large point of land;,
found twenty fathom water, at a leagues distance
from the shore. They were then in twenty-four
degrees, and being by reason of the land'wind,
obliged to advance sometimes nearer the shore,
sometimes to keep at sea, they at last east anchor
in thirty fathom. Three leagues from the lore
they could find no bottom. The bow afterwards
followed the Arrow, but kept closer to the shore.

The 22d, they discovered a small isle not above
half a league from the shore, where the Arrow
came to anchor in seventeen fathom. They went

a fishing,





MR. JOHN NIEU HOFF. 297

a fishing, and brought back along with them two
canoes belonging to the inhabitants, laden with
coco-nuts and water-lemons. The Bow having
failed before, and come to anchor in the bay of
St. Austen, near a small isle, the Arrow followed
her thither, and found at the mouth of the fiver
two white points of land jetting out into these.

The inhabitants brought some fruits aboard
them, and Mr. Hugo and Mr. Nieuhoff went
ashore the next day, to see whether they could
traffic with them ; but could only exchange a few
Haves. However, Mr. Nieuhoff catched abundance
of fish at the mouth of the river.

The 2d of July, the Bow sailed within the
mouth of the river to refit, having received some
damage. They endeavoured to catch some tortoises,
but could not take any. About noon, the
captain of the Madagafcarians came on board to
exchange some slaves; and on the 7th, the Bow,
in which was Mr. Nieuhoff, and the Arrow separated,
the firs some leagues to the north, but
were to meet again at the island of Motte; which
they did soon after, and on the 15 th of August,
entered a river near the isles of Mandarin and
Magalagie, where they met a boat, from which
they got some pullets, and were informed that
provisions were plenty farther north. On the 24th,
Mr. Nieuhoff failed in the Bow, up the river Me-gelatine,
where he saw several Moorish ships, and
an English vessel with slaves on board, bound to
Barbadoes.

On the diff, he carried ashore with him several
commodities, with a view of trafficking, but could
make no bargains, the people holding up the price
of slaves very high, and seeming make light of his
wares. In two days after, he endeavoured to sell
them some cloves, of which purchase, the king

had


298 THE VOYAGES OF

had seemed desirous; his mind, however, was now
changed, and the natives having spitefully stirred
up the ponds whence they were wont to bring
their fresh water, which, by this piece of malice,
was rendered muddy and unfit for use; our author
quitted this part of the river and caff anchor
on the west side of the bay, where he made a
purchase of twenty-two slaves, several sheep, cows,
and other provisions; he was also supplied with
plenty of good water, being resolved to proceed
thirty or forty leagues farther north ; they left this
place September the 2 2d, and found themselves on
the 29th, off Conquest, near which lie five islands
in latitude thirteen degrees thirteen minutes, the
middlemost of these islands may be seen far off at
sea.

It was here that feme fishermen having pointed
out to Mr. Nieuhoff the residence of the king, he
vent ashore in the bay of Antea, by some called
Murderers bay, carrying with him some goods
to trade *, but as he never was heard of afterwards,
it is supposed he fell a victim to the barbarity of
the natives. The Bow, which was the vessel that
had landed him there, waited three days for him
upon the coast, without having received the final-left
intelligence relative to him or his company.

After this lo r s, which every person in the interest
of the Dutch East India company had reason
to regret, the Bow and Arrow steered for the
Cape of Good Hope, their crews, in their passage,
having been reduced to the greatest extremity, -
their allowance being for sometime only one spoonful
of rice for every man in twenty-four hours.
These vessels were - but coldly received on their arrival
at the Cape, and the mailer of the Bow was
discarded, because he had not staid longer in expectation
of Mr, Nieuhoff’s return than he had

done*


MR. JOHN NIEUHOFF. 299

done. And the same ship was dispatched again
thither to inquire after him, but the crew having
mutinied, displaced their commander, sold the vessel
to the French at Mozambique, and made their
escape.

At the request of Mr. Henry NieuhofF, brother
to our author, the directors of the chamber of
Amsterdam ordered a vessel to sail for the place
where that unfortunate gentleman went ashore,
purposely to inquire after him 5 the master of
which ship returned to the Cape, after an absence
of five months and eighteen days, with a cargo of
two hundred and fifty slaves, of which he had
made a purchase; he reported to the company that
he had had a conference with the king of that
place, who declared himself utterly ignorant of
Mr. NieuhofF’s fate ; and who was even a stranger
to that gentleman's having been once ashore in his
dominions ; so that nothing is more probable than
that he was massacred upon his first landing here.
Mr. NieuhofF was certainly worthy of a better
fate ; for in his private dealings, he was exact and
honourable; and as a servant to the Gaff India
company, always manifested a care and integrity
that endeared him to every body who knew him.


En d of the F0 u RTh Volume,








A Compendious AUTHENTIC and ENTERTAINING VOYAGES,,Digefled in a Chronological Series.,The whole exhibiting k clear View of the. CUSTOMS, MAn ,tiers, Religion, GOVERNMENT, COMMERCE, and NATURAL H History of Imolt Nations,in the KNOWN WORLD. illustrated and adorned with a Variety of genuine Charts,,Maps, Plans, leads, &c. curiouflyengraved.,The SECOND EDITION.,VO L. V. LONDON: ted for W. Strain J. RIVIrTO ; W. X.TO'; J.DODSLEY; T.CASLON; T.LOwrNDES; 'iCOLL ; RICH-arson and URQUHART; T. JEFFBRIES; and B. COLLINS at Salisbury.,MDCCLXV1,
V-tv.,Gus Id . A st2J~ E~Â·y~ Thermo La0u dive. mw. P7 ~ -M Alla .DA] L s 'boil 0~~ol'G Boo!i&~es~es,'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p,1 1 The Laundry %- MLABAR,~~s" I BC nd 'CS Â·A~~ "~-a A 10 1103Â£A"E,1~~~~~~~Czl~ ~ ~~~~~~1
A C O L E C T I O N,OF OY A G E S. Bald E US' S Account of the Coast of MALABAR and COROMANDEL.,CHA-P. I. India, and its manifold divini ns into kingdoms and provinces: the manner f which we shall treat f then: an account of the kingdom of Cambaya: its produce, trade, and inhabitants: a description o the city of mnadabath; its riches, commerce, enforce: also of the city of Surat, its wealth, and the power and magnificence fits give, nor: the city f Brachia : the general character of the people of the kingdom of Cambaya: the famous town of Mocha described : its buildings andfor-tiications : the M/afauri and Ca ravens: the city of agra: the ref hence of the Great mogul described: a Joy maifeJing the cruelty and insolence of his nobility.,HE author, from whose writings we have extracted this account of the East Indies, was Philip Ballads, a Lutheran minister, ho resided for many years n Malabar and Coromandel from whence he removed to Ceylon: he s been allowed to have been extremely accurate VOL, V. B and
and sincere in his relations; to have adhered first. y to' fat, and to have avoided carefully those fa bulbous stories that abound in the writings of other travellers: most that he delivers he was an eye witness of, and where to avoid a breach in his account, he is obliged to have re ourse to the assistance of others, he has taken care to consist the mols authentic records: he was certainly well qualified to intersperse those military extracts that are to ba found all through his performance, having personally attended, in bis religious character, man) sieges, battles and expeditions, where he was very exam in his observations, by being intimately ac quaint with a learned Brain who lived in the same house with him. He had an opportunity ol being well acquainted with the customs, manners, and religious ceremonies of the East Indians; and it was by means of this man that he sometimes goi an inl.de view of the pagoda and pagan temples, a favour which scarce any other traveller can boast ol ha-king enjoyed. Upon the whole, it is generall) agreed that Ballads is through the whole an impart. tial ',vriter,,India, properly so called, was antiently divided ir.o India beyond the Ganges, and India within the Ganges, the greater part of which is now known bv- t: . name of Indian, and supposed to be the Hai' a c.f held writs dia consists of a great number of kingdom! an' provinces, viz. Indcflan, or the Mogul's domi nions, Decan or Vifiapour, Malabar, Coromandel, Crika, Bengal, Pegu, Siam, Cambodia, the Mali. ;a .la' .: the islands of Ceylon, Sumatra, Born rc., Banda, Amboina, the Molucca Islands, &c. &,c. Of each of these in particular it is not our intention to treat, but barely of such parts of In-,- dia
dia as our author had an opportunity of being ac quaint with.; wherefore we shall begin with Cambaya or G.izurat, a name by which a very delightful part of one provinces distinguished, and whereby the whole is sometimes denominated.,Cambaya to the westward forms a peninsula up on the gulf of India, and on the southward it is bounded by the kingdom of Deans; it is one of the most fruitful provinces in India, and supplies several of the neighbouring territories with divers sorts of provisions, such as butter, oyl, wheat, rice, pease, &c. it is famous for producing the beft'cal- loco, and abounds with diamonds, amethysts, cor delian and other valuable stones: the people in general are of a quick conception, expert in trade, not bad soldiers, and fond of learning; they are either Pagans or Mahometanss; and perhaps com mere is in no part of India in a more flourishing condition. This country is at present fubje to the Great Mogul; but was formerly governed by its own king, whose revenues were very consider. able, and who could bring a numerous army into he field; it is said to contain about thirty towns of note, among which are Amadabath, Cambaya, Surat, iu, &c The city of Cambaya not only gives name to a gulf, at the bottom of which it is situated, but to he whole province; it lies in twenty-two degrees nd thirty minutes north latitude, and is called the air of the Indies, being a fine port, and a place f great trade ; it is handsomely built, and forti ed with a triple wall, with twelve great gates, fides having a gate at the-end of every street, which is that up at a certain hour of the night to prevent any disorders. Without side the gates are our fine ponds of water, and several magnificent ardent for the use of the inhabitants, who are for,B 2 the
the mop part Pagans, and drive a considerable trade in superfine stuffs with Diu, Goa, Ache, Mac, and Persia, having three public market-places within the city about eighteen leagues from the city of Cam lava lies Ambadabath, which is not only the prin cipal city of the division called Guzurat, but of the whole kingdom of Cambaya; it is built upon the river Indus, directly under the tropic of Cancer: this town is large and populous, the streets are spacious, and the t buildings, as well public as pri. late, very magnificent. Here is one of the fined mosques in all India; it was formerly a Pagan ten. ple, and is curiously adorned with mosaic work, and agate of different colours, of which the neighbouring mountains yield great plenty: there are also twc or three public endowments for the reception oi maimed or superannuated monkies, an animal hel in great veneration among the Banians who inhabit Amadabath, which was formerly the seat of the Pagan kings, many of whose tombs are still worth attention the chief commodities of the place are girdles turbans, damasks, tapestries, sattins, filk-fuffs sugar, opium, borax, gum-lucca, preserved ginger fal-ammoniac, and indigo, called here anil; they ali deal in musk and ambergrease; but there are brough hither from Pegu and Bengal. It is the residence of a governor, who is very rich, and takes the ran' of a rja or prince, under whom there is always well disciplined garrison to awe the Natures, neighbouring people that are free-brothers, indecent went of the Mogul, whole dominions they ravage with every fair opportunity. Under the jurifdi&io of Armadabath are twenty-five considerable town! zrd a great number of villages: the country about it, which is a plain, displays a most beautiful land sits ai it is watered by the river Indus, and is oblige
lived to furnish the Mogul upon occasion with fifty elephants and twelve thousand horse surat is situated upon the gulf of Cambaya, and is handsomely built, being inhabited by many English French, and American merchants, who dwell here on account of its being the place to which the diamonds paid to the Mogul, by way of tribute from the king golconda, are brought: it is also the mart for pearls, which are found off Cape Cor morn, and in several parts of the Persian gulf; for musk, which is imported hither from China; for ambergrease, that is abundantly produced about the Cape of Good Hope; for civet, taken from an animal of the same name; for divers sorts of drugs, the produce of Arabia, and other places; for all sorts of Indian spices, viz. the nutmegs of Molucca, the cloves of Macassar, the cinnamon of Ceylon, and the pepper of Malabar; as well as for variety of Indian-stuffs, and cloths, and callicoes. The go vernon never goes abroad without numerous train of attendance, both of horse and foot, who make a very magnificent figure, he being either carried in a litter, or riding upon an elephant. The go government is only temporary, being seldom left to one man more than four or five years. The customs paid to the Mogul upon exports and imports are very considerable, being one tenth either in money or goods, at the option of the merchantmen Surat are to be found people of all religions, each man living according to his own principles; but the Mahometanss are the most numerous party ; and there are a sect of Pagans, of so humane a disposition that they account it a crime to deprive the meanest insect of life: and their priests who go naked, their bodies clotted with dirt, and their hair growing down almost to their feet, lest they should offend against this ordinance of their religion carry in their hand a large feather fan, where-,B 3 with
with they brush the duff before them as the walk, that they may not-tread upon and kill worm. The people of Surat are extravagant i ornamenting their houses, and have often floors o porcelain. They have but little glass in thei windows, using instead thereof crocodile-scales mother of pearl, and tortoiseshell, through which being of different colours, the fun lining, causes al agreeable diversity of light and shade. The tax gatherers and officers of the customs are often vers insolent to strangers; and in 649 their exaction obliged the Dutch to seize upon some goods belong ing to the Mogul, the consequence of which was treaty that set the rights and liberty of foreigner: upon a surer footing about ten leagues from the sea, and twelve t< the north of Surat, finds the city of Brachia, or the side of a very pleasant hill it the bottom o which runs the river Nardabathl which might as. ford a good harbour for shipping but the passage( is stopt up by a sand-bank, about four leagues from the city towards the sea. It is famous for having manufactories of cloth, and the whitest linen in India. The Dutch and English had formerly settle ments here, and the people of Malabar were wont to send hither nine or ten hips yearly. The inhabitants in general are Beans, and among them are many rich merchants and ingenious calico weavers. Ali merchandize passing through this town pays a duty of two per cent. to the Mogul: it contains eighty-seven villages in its territory; the ground round it, exceptjuft where it stands, is for the most part low; but the high mountains of Tindal rise about six leagues to the south-east of it.,Goga is a small town upon the gulf of Cambaya, about thirty leagues from the city so called; it is defenced towards the sea by a strong stone-wall, but on the land-side entirely open: here the hips,out-
outward bound from Cambaya and Amadabath, for Arabia and the southern parts, often putting in to vital: it was also a station for the Portuguese con vows; for the road, though shallow, is very safe this province has many other towns of some note, betides what we have mentioned; such as Patta- patane; Mungerol, a place that produces excel lent cotton; Brodera, where the companies some times keep factors to buy up coarse cloth, of which large quantities are therein made. The people of this province are artful and subtle, requiring to be matched with equal policy: gravity, reserve, and splendor impose upon them, and there are modes that must be observed, because they protect you from being over-reached: at the same time they are to be treated with great civility ; for insolence or affection of superiority they will not brook. Their principal commodities are lead, quick-silver, cinnabar, ivory, copper, tin, porcelain, nutmegs, cloves, mace, and pepper; in buying any of which they will cheat you, both in weight and measure, if not carefully watched. Their trade to Mocha is very great, and renders it necessary both to the ,Dutch and English to keep fair with them mocha is a town in Arabia Felix, subject to the Turks; it gives name to a pretty large province, and is situated at the entrance of the Red Sea, in thirteen degrees and twenty-eight minutes of north latitude. t, was formerly a poor village, inhabit ed only by fishermen, but now it is a place of very great importance, and of considerable extent i the ground about it is barren ; it is not walled in, but the houses, which are flat-topped like those of Constantinople, are handsome and commodious, being built of red and blue stones: the harbour to the northward is defended by a case built of blue stone. In this town are three fine Pagan temples, one of which, Standing in the midst of the city, is,4 adorned
adorned with a high steeple. As it is the reining peace of several caravans, the trade has been than ferret thither from Don, a city which has decline apace for some time past. It is inhabited by Turk Arabians, Beans, and Jews, and is pretty pope tous; but chiefly, from the beginning of March t the middle of September, when the Manfauri at rives here, a hip belonging to the Grand Signior and kept to transport for his use the richest congo cities of the Red Sa : its cargo consists of pieces o eight, gold ducats, Italian gold-tissues, camblets quick-silver, saffron, &c. betides such slaves as ar taken up the Levant, and it is generally esteemed worth three millions of heals: this ship sails back it January, laden with spices, indigo, fine callicoes turbans, and other indian wares there arrives here constantly in March a caravan of Jews, Arabians, and Armenians from Alexandria and Aleppo; it consists of sixteen hundred camels, and is laden with twilled silk, gold-wire, red coral, cinnabar, saffron, myrrh, needles, spectacles, glasses knives, and scissors, &c. and this caravan leaves the place in December, laden with all sorts of Indian goods; it seldom travels above three or four leagues a day, marching very slowly: with it there come a multitude of pilgrims bound to the tomb of Alma horne t t Medina, about eight leagues from Mec. ch ; of there it is said there are yearly not less than thirty-fine theufand.,Mlcha is in the jurisdiction of the Pasha of emrnak ; and the revenues of it are said to be worth to the Grand Signior two hundred thou fa,!d reals yearly: every bale or chest of goods pays a certain private duty according to its value to the governor; and thus the pains the governor is often seen personally taking in shipping or un fhi:pin goods in this town, is easily accounted for. All loo.h ships that anchor here are ob-sliced
lived to land their whole cargoes, and pay the full duty, whether they dispose of them or no; when they have-cleared all out, they carry their sails and rudder shore, and the fire a cannon to warn the governor, that he may send an officer on board to see that they have not secreted any thing. ' Each of there hips is moreover obliged to pay an extraordinary tax, called anchorage-money; this is raised from ten to fifty reals, according to the burthen of the veflel.,Besides there extortions upon the Nachodes or Moorish officers, there is still another; for as on as they come into port, they are brought before the governor in great slate, attended by drums, pipes, &c. being first invested with a certain robe of cere mony, which is taken from them on their return; and the same farce is played over again when they are about to quit the town, for which they pay near fifty reals in all. About the spring, the Portuguese ships from Goa, Toga, and other places, put in here with rice and tobacco, which they dispose of to the people of the country; as also indico, calicoes, Guzurate stuffs, sail-cloth, and drugs, which are sold to the Turkish caravans. They are paid for their cargo in pieces of eight, and a valuable red dea bout the same time hips from Cambaya and Malabar bring hither pepper, all sorts of India cloth, superfine turbans, white and blue girdles, painted callicoes, rice, tobacco, porcelain, &c. and take in return.raifins, almonds, red dye, elephant's teeth, coffee, and sometimes horses. T want of wood and water is a. great defect in this toiyn: there however, as well as provisions, are pljtityin a small island in the neighbourhood, used blth.eEnglifl to careen in, where old cloaths are averyvluablecom- modity.,B 5 Before
Before we quit these territories, it will not bi amiss to say something of the city of Agra, where in the Great Mogul resides. Agra is the capital o Hindostan, situated beyond the Ganges, upon ths river Gemini; it is large, but not well-built, fur rounded with a wrong wall of red stone, and forti sied with a ditch an hundred cubits in width, an, it is a good day's journey to ride round it on horse back; wherefore it is called the Queen of the Eat The Streets are very long, and full of shops ant magazines: there are in it fifteen market-places and eighty caravanferas, or places appointed so the reception of those who travel in caravans There are some elegant houses belonging to th nobility; but in those of private people there i nothing remarkable; for in calling them indifferent we say no worse than can be said of all the town in India. They are divided one from the other b high stone-walls, intended principally to conceal their women. There is nothing in the whole town particularly worth seeing, except some tombs tha are in the suburbs; and the royal palace, in which the general assembly of the great men of the em pire meet, who very often are guilty of the mol atrocious crimes, even in the presence of their so foreign, and they have been known to murder oi another before his face, as happened in Ici when a commandant of five thousand horse resent ing something that had been said to him by ths king's Bahia, which he interpreted into an affront though never meant as such, dispatched him with hi scimitar; whereupon he himself fell beneath the swords of two others who were friends to the de ceased. And the consequence was a violent coin motion, wherein many people lost their lives, and to quell which a very considerable force proved ne. cesare; however the Mogul, who had been an eye.,14 witness
witness of the whole, ordered the body of the ag greffor to be flung into the river, and therein mani rested an inclination to justice chap. II. The Strength and importance of Diu, in poussin of,the Portuguese : the kingdom and city of ijiapour described : the revenge of an Italian upon one of the Mogul's osiers, for being over-curious, related: an account of Bombay, and of the fifJl fettling of the Portuguese under albuquerque at Gaa: the air of Goa very hurtful: the great power of the viceroy: the Portuguese inhabitants of Goa characterized: the divisions of Malabar; its produce and trade: the cl image inclement. 'there is a small island on this side the Gan . ages, called Diu, in which is a city of some note bearing the same name; wherein the Portuguese who have been possessed of it since the year 1553, have three firing sorts, one of which is thought impregnable, being surrounded with a double ditch filled with sea-water, in one of which there is a good anchorage for such vessels as are admitted into it: it is built upon a high rock, flanked-with firing bastions, and furnished with tome pieces of artillery. The trade of this place was much greater formerly than it is now; the Dutch and English have removed it to Surat. Damn, Chaoul, and Basin hard in the fte of Diu, and declined apace when their traffic was lost; so that at present they are but little notice dat the mouth of the river Helevaro, which takes its rise from the mountains of Ballaquate, hands a city called Kabul; it is in the kingdom of Decan, in latitude twenty, and was once a place of goods 6 trade;
trade; but has not quite recovered.fince it was plan. tered and burned by the Portuguese under Dalmey. da in the year 1508.,Having taken notice of the most remarkable places in the kingdoms of Cambaya and Decan, we Shall now proceed to Vifiapour, it being the next in our way, measuring in length two hundred and fifty leagues, and an hundred and fifty in breadth. The principal city in this territory bears the same name; it is five leagues in compass, surrounded byitrcng walls, with five noble gates, whereon were said to be a thousand pieces of cannon, brass and iron; amongst which was one carrying five hundred and forty pound of gun-powder: this was said to be the work of a native, of Rome, who threw one of the king's commissioners that pretend ed to ! ire into what it had cost, into the mold wher;. :e had cat it. The king's palace is in thee minds of the town, surrounded by a ditch filled with water and abounding with crocodiles. It had for melyv sovereign of its own; but was reduced by the Great Mogul after a very wearisome war: it is forty leagues from Kabul, and sixty from Goa; close to it runs the-river Mantua; Narrator and Serrapour, two villages, the former of which was once the residence of the kings of Vifiapour, are now united to its suburbs, which are inhabited by it riches merchants bombay, which formerly belonged to the Portuguese but was given to the English in 1662, as part of the dowry of the Infanta of Portugal, when: married to our Charles II. and wherein our EaRs India company have a considerable settlement, is situated in the kingdom of Vifiapour, as is also lWingurla, where the Dutch are possessed of a good factory, and which is of great importance to them, as well on account of its great plenty of provision, a for its proximity to Goa.,Goa
Â· /- - ,'N ~L~1= -~ -3 7 I Qe/WQ/(A~~~~~~~m t~
Goa is the capital of the Portuguese Indies, be. ing the seat of a bishop and a viceroy; it was first subdued by Albuquerque, a name well known in this part of the world, who was driven out of it once, but returned with an additional reinforce ment, and took it again by assault: after which ex plot, he took care to fortify the place with brick and fine, and erected a brazen cross, which being found among the ruins of one part of the town, without any one's being able to comprehend whence it could come, was called miraculous; and in order to secure to the Portuguese a firm footing here, he offered considerable advantages to such of his soldiers as intermarried with the women of the country.,Goa stands upon an island formed by the ri vers Mendoza and Guard, in fifteen degrees and twenty minutes of north latitude; it is surrounded , by very high mountains, which prevent the free ourse of the air, and consequently render it wholesome; and it is fatal to most European con stations, a circumstance that hinders it from being o well inhabited as it might otherwise be: however, here is in it a great number of handicraft tradesmen and the principal street is lined with hops f silk, porcelain, drugs, &c. Provisions, and all arts of wares are daily sold by a public auctioneer called lang, to the highest bidder, in the market lace; and here a man may, in a short time, pur hase slaves, houses, furniture, or any thing which e stands indeed of. Little business can be done ere in the middle of the day, on account of the excessive heat. Their police is good and well reputed and they have a public infirmary, thought y those who have seen it and compared it with tiers, to be one of the finest in the world-the churches of Goa are superbly adorned; the win vows being set with mother of pearl instead ofglafs: ere are seven parish churches besides the cathedral,
drat, and many monasteries: the port is a very sin, one, and may be put in competition with those o Constantinople and Toulon, which can be exceed ed by none. It is remarkable, that no fish are found( in it, and scarcely any pigeons can live in the ai of Goa, which is however well noted for ex. excellent sweetmeats. The Jesuits are called hen Paulinus, from a great church belonging to them dedicated to St. Paul; they have four other churche besides, the ceiling of one of which, known bj the name of the Good Jesus, is finely painted The vice-royalty of Goa is one of the greater ir the world, having under it, at the viceroy's dis psal, the government of Mosaic in Africa, of Mandate in Arabia, of Ormuz in Persia, of Cey. Ion near Cape Comorin, and of Molucca at the bottom of the Gulph of India; any one of which is as profitable as the best government in Europe, It is certain, that though the territory of Goa does not produce so much now, as before the Dutch and English had obtained so firm a footing in India as they now maintain, it fill yields very great wealth to the crown of Portugal.,The Portuguese, who are naturally indolent, are here still more so , for giving themselves up entirely to sensuality and pleasures, they leave their business to be managed by slaves, to Whom even the women abandon the care of their children. The issue of an Indian woman ad a Portuguese are called Vestiges and the offspring of these again are called Captives. Drunkenness is here but little known, yet murders, in consequence of very trivia! disputes, are frequent, and fornication and adultery are thought nothing of, lust being no where more in dulled: however, the men, who are perhaps not without cause extremely jealous, never permit their wives to walk; if they go abroad, they are covered in close chairs and veiled, and at home are kept,in
in the upper part of the house, where the win cows are latticed, and so contrived as to admit of no communication with the street; they all use snuff extravagantly, and none of them, who are in the least removed from the common herd, will walk out without having their sword carried by one servant, and an umbrella by another; perhaps no people can be more proud; they are fond of stroking up their whiskers. The venereal disease is common here, and they are afflicted with fe vers, which they cure by bleeding; they devour large quantities of sweetmeats, and drink a deal of water: the women live much upon rice, though they have wheaten bread; they also chew beetle and drink arrack, and make great use of pickles, whence they contrast a very pale complexion about twelve leagues from Goa is the island of Anchedia, covered with wood, and the water about it well. foret with fish: the Portuguese had a firing fort here formerly, which they demolished themselves, finding it but of little service, as they did that of Nor, a city also in this neighbourhood but belonging to the kingdom of Casa ra; the soil whereof is fertile in rice and other necessaries of life; the inhabitants are well able to bear hard labour. The next city of note is Bate cato, which became tributary to Portugal in the reign of Emanuel; but the inhabitants ceasing to pay their quota, they were soon brought to terms by a Portuguese fleet commanded by Alphonse Renew, and afterwards by Saga, who obliged them not only to acknowledge their subjection, but also compelled the queen to pay the arrears of the tax. Besides what we have mentioned, there are the towns of Barber, Baranor, and Mangalor, which not being of any consequence, we shall pass over, and proceed malabar, which begins about fifty leagues to the south of Goa, extending to Cape Co-,morin,
morn, and the utmost borders of India on this fid the Ganges.,Malabar was formerly subiet to one sovereign who resided at Celsus; but he being lost on his return from visiting the tomb of Mahomet, and leaving no heirs, his esquire, his sword-bearer, and his center-bearer, being the principal people in power, divided the kingdom between them.,It now contains the kingdoms of Candor, Ca. lecut, Cranganor, Cochin, and Courant; to which some add Frecancon, Porca, and Coulecolang; but they are scarcely worth including. The whole country is well watered, and the communication between different places consequently easy; but the rivers in general are shallow, and not ca able of bearing ships of burthen; the largest of them are Bergen, Parade, and Crunganon, which have eighteen or nineteen feet at high water, and are the boundaries of Calecut and Cochin: the former is a remarkable receptacle for pirates during the months of January, February, and March, the nights along the coast are extremely cold, accompanied with thick fogs, yet the days are very hot, and they have a sea-wind every day from ten in the morning till sun-set, and a land-wind every night: from June to November it is very dangerous being on the coast, and their winter be gins in May and continues till November. Pepper and cardamum are the principal products of Mala bar; the former is better and cheaper at one place than another, it thrives bell in the shade, and has a weak stem, like our vine, requiring support; every sten. bears about six bunches, each bunch a foot long, of the colour of red grapes be fore it ripen; they are plucked green in October and November, and become black by being dried in the fun upon mats: here is also good ginger and borbarri of a saffron colour, with a few aloes. Ma-,labar
lahar also yields Plenty of wax, an indifferent sort of salt-petre, and one bezoar stones: the country abounds in cocos and such other fruit trees as are natural to the climate of India.,Opium sells well, the people using it in very large quantities, and ambergrease will sell for five or six reals an ounce; cloves, nutmegs, mace, al lum, china-root, lead, tin, copper, brass, brim flonc, cinnabar, r:d damasks, scarlet and crimson cloths, together with benzoin and coarse porcelain, are all good commodities in this place. The whole coast abounds with fish, and their cod is particularly excellent; they have also oxen, swine, and all sorts of poultry in great plenty : from the cocos is ex traced a liquor, which taken sparingly is not un wholesome, and from it arrack is distilled.,Cananor is a populous city, the residence of its king, who maintains a good number of musketeers and archers; it was formerly a place of great trade, and many rich mahometan merchants live under protection of the cannon of the fortifications. It is about forty leagues to the north of Cochin, and has a large secure harbour. The city of Terms satan is about two leagues south of Cannot, and strengthened on the land-side by a good stanch |wa;.,The second kingdom in Malabar is Calecut, be ginning four leagues to the south of the river Ber ira, and extending to the river Canga.nor, being a space of thirty-two leagues; it is twenty leagues broad the king of Calecut is the mot powerful of the Malabar kings, having a good army, expert in fire arms as well as in the bow and arrow. Our author tells us, that the king of Calecut, whom he raw, appeared to be fifty years old, and that his tellers were much damaged by the immoderate Ife of opium. The crown does not descend goethe
the king's son, but to his filer or to the mother' nearest kindred, as being the side surest from bas. tardy. No pepper mus be sold here to any but the king's favors, who afterwards dispose of it at the best market for his use chap. III. rhe situation of the city of Cranganor; taken from the,Pcriuguefe by te Dutch: Syriacjfurpofid to be token by the Saviour of mankind: the ecclesiastical govern. ment f te Christians hereabout related : their great refpea to St. Thomas: th ir baptisms, burials and carriages : the city cochin described; cosid, rab damaged by the Dutch; who in vain endeavour acquire the friendship of the country catholics: Pea and Clang described: a character of the Malabar gentlemen: Tuecoryn described: a short account the pearl-fishery. C R A N G AN OR is the chief city of the kin C dom of the same name; it stands upon a hill being a sandy soil, five leagues to the north of Co chin, and twenty to the south of Calecut; by runs a winding river, which discharges itself at little distance into the sea: it was for many year the residence of a Portuguese archbishop; an when the Dutch took possession of it in the yea 1662, having driven out the Portuguese, after flout resistance, they found a noble college and library well furnished, the firudure of which wa very elegant; here was also a good cathedral an a church belonging to the Franciscans; without the wall was the college of Charlotte, wherein th Christian youths received their education, and th Syriac language was taught, which is in great esteem, as a language supposed to have been som time used by the Saviour of mankind and his apostles
The Christians of Cranganor are not rich. St. Thomas is their favourite saint, his feast being kept on the first of July; and there are many pa ans who keep the same day in commemoration of im. Among the mountains of Chaldea lives their high priest, who has an ecclesiastical council, con sling of twelve cardinals, two bishops, and reveal priests, with whom he settles all religious disputes and his mandates are carefully obeyed. The griefs have their heads shaved so as to represent cross; they administer the sacrament in both minds, making use of grape juice instead of wine, nd always consoling first; they do not baptise heir children in less than forty days, except in ases of extremity; they sprinkle with holy water hen they enter the church, and their forms of uriah are the same as in other catholic countries. he relations of the deceased entertain their friends o about a week, in a plentiful manner, and the gift is intermingled with prayers for the dead, rd encomiums upon his virtues and merit. They keep a fluid lent of forty days; and most of their rivals are the same with those observed by other christian churches: They have convents and nun eries, and adhere trial to their vows, particularly to that of chastity: they permit their clergy marry once, but no oftener upon any account; or can any marriage among them be annulled t by death; and the widow who takes a second band in lets than twelve months after the death the first, forfeits her dowry. The Isle of Vaykin, which is pretty fertile, object to the king of Cochin, lies betwixt the ri hers f Cranganor and of Cochin. The Dutch rc&ed a sort upon it, to which they gave the title New Orange in the year 662, when they laid 'ge to Cochin; the king of which place ,is in the,interest
interest of the Portuguese, and his dominions a about ten leagues long the city of Cochin is very ancient; it is pie faintly situated, but so very low and marshy, th the air is not reckoned wholesome, and yet abounds with provision; and the Portuguese, fortified it in 1504, have embellished it considerable It is about two miles long, and lies in ten degree north latitude, having the sea to the westward and at the highest side, the river being near twi ty fathoms deep; but the entrance of the harbor in winter is difficult, being choaked up with fans which is carried away by the violence of the cu rent in summer. Some of the principal hour have gardens that reach to the river, in whic there is plenty of fish, which the Chinese ar dextrous in catching with nets. The Jesuits here a good church, with a very musical riq of bells, also a college three stories high, surround ed by a strong wall; the cathedral was support by two rows of pillars; it had a fine steeple, ad was admired as a very masterly piece of archie ture: but there and several other good church were demolished by the Dutch when they dro out the Portuguese; however, they spared a Fra cifcan monastery, and permitted two brothers, w inhabited it, to have a free exercise of their re gion.,The houses of Cochin, which belong to any pe pie of substance, are divided from each other thin high walls: the Jews who inhabit here neither white, black, nor brown, but of a colo between the three; they are allowed to have a synagogue without the fortifications. The Chris ans and Mahometanss, or natives of Malabar, ha different parts of the city aligned them to re in, their committing having been formerly product
ire of great disputes; that wherein the latter re de being lower than the other, and built-after the indian fashion, with very broad streets: however, he regal palace is built with brick and. stone; and, as some apartments that are lofty and spacious in he European manner:, near it is a pagan temple, ' fide which stands a large cistern. The Portuguese had been in possession of Co hin about a hundred and fifty years, when they h ere attacked by the Dutch in I(61, whom they , obliged to quit the siege and weigh anchor in the might; but the succeeding year the Hollanders re . turned with great force, and obliged them to fur ender on conditions, not at all dishonourable to hose who were vanquished, which were faithfully observed by the Dutch general, who was visited on after the reduction by a Roman catholic bishop, whom he received in a very respectful man ! ner; but he found it impossible to gain the friend flip of the head of the Malabar church, and many of his followers who inhabited the Chaldean mountains about four leagues to the southward of Cochin begins the kingdom of Porca or Percatti, the air of which place is not reckoned good, and the inhabitants are greatly afflicted with blindness and swelled legs, which they attribute to certain nitrous particles that impregnate the water which they commonly drink; the soil is very fruitful, and yields; plenty of rice. When the Dutch arrived here in Ici, they found the king engaged in a war with , the Portuguese, who had seized some part of his dominions. This monarch was glad of a new al ly; in consequence of the assistance promised him ' : by the Dutch, he allowed them to load one hip yearly with pepper in his kingdom, and granted his protection to all hips belonging to the republic hic of Holland that hould chance to touch at Pore scar
ca. The king who reigned here in 1664, of hoi our author had an audience, was-about twenty-fou years old, firing limbed, well proportioned, an very give; his ears, fingers and feet were load ed with jewels of considerable value: he has about five hundred finally gallies, wherewith in the rain] seasons, when the water covers all the surrounding countries, he makes frequent excursions, to the great annoyance of the king of Cochin, who is his foe; he was for some-time at variance with the Dutch, but they reduced him by the sword. The people of Porca or Percatti used formerly-to transport their pepper to Mocha; but since the English have trap. wicked here in that commodity, they have establish. ed a factory by the sea-side. The inland inhabitants get their livelihood by gathering and manage. ing pepper, which they are obliged to sell to a Brain, who is the king's favor: many of them were converted to Christianity by the Portuguese.,Next to Porca is Calecoulang, a kingdom of no great extent, where the Dutch had formerly fatal. ries to buy up pepper; but the least of all the Ma lahar kingdoms is that of Coulang, extending to the utmost point of Cape Comorin. The chief city of this kingdom, whence it takes its name, is counted one of the most wealthy in Europe, the air being salubrious, and there being in the neigh boyhood many excellent springs; it Rants near the sea-side, is adorned with trees, and contains some fine houses and seven churches. When the Portuguese first came into this kingdom, they erect ed a strong house wherein to defend themselves from the treachery of the natives; but being one night off their guard, they were surprised and all cut to pieces; which piece of treacherous barbarity was afterwards revenged by Laurence the son of Francis Almeida, who burned twenty lips belonging to the king of the place, richly laden.,In
In the year 1503, a Dominican friar called Ro. eric, preached the gospel here, and made many inverts to Christianity. The inhabitants are very treacherous, having one time basely assassinated forme dutch officers without fide one of the gates, and other time endeavoured to surprize them within e town, under cover of night, which they were very near offering. We ought before to have observed that the gen men or Malabar, or such as derive their lineage rm princes and Bramins are called Nairos, and hat they are proud, arrogant, bold, and info went; when they meet any common people in the (feet, they cry out Po, po, that is, give way, give ay. They always wear fields and fcynetars, which they leave at the door when they visit a neighbour's wife;,thefe being the badges of their defence within, and a warning that no body may enter to disturb them. They are good wrestlers, nd introduced early to the field; in order to nae their nerves pliable, they rub them constantly with an oil particularly adapted to the purpose; hey are well versed in the gymnastic arts, handling he bow and arrow, firing the musket, &c. and f late years they have been taught to make their un-powder, barrels, and matches. They com only engage without any cloaths, but a small piece f tuff girded round the waste; in fighting they sten wheel, with a view of taking the advantage f their antagonists; and when they turn their backs and you would think them about to run, lliey face about and renew the attack with fresh ;igor; they handle their shields in their defence with great dexterity. The worst sort of them ire well known in Batavia; they are a company of desperadoes who bind themselves and all their indeed by oath, to revenge an injury that is done to hem. The power of the kings of Malabar disseminated
estimated by the number of Nairos in his fervid they are generally very faithful to their sovereign-and to revenge his death would sacrifice their hear bloodshed are declared enemies of the Christians, being naturally fierce, cruel, and lustful; they ol posed the Hollanders in 66 when they attack Coulang, and between seven and eight thousand( them who had given themselves fife spirits wit opium, defended the place for some time rather lik fiends than men. Some time before that period they fell upon and killed thirty Portuguese wh had been concerned in plundering, in the time peace, a rich pagan temple about ten leagues fro the city. A vessel filled with some of the boot having been went as a present to John king of P tubal, he ordered it'to be immediately returned a deposited in the pagode whence it was taken, a 'what is still more surprizing, this order was ma in pursuance of the then reigning pope's advi Soon after the city of Coulang was taken by t Dutch, their ships, being twenty-three in number were in great danger from a violent form, whi however they putrid with the loss of three sloop the form lasted for three days, and what made more alarming to the Dutch, was, their being so vessels exposed to it laden with provisions, such meal, bacon, cheese, wine, and oil, besides a enforcement of landmen, most of whom labour under-the bloody flux; however, as on as t tempest was appeased, the fortifications of th place were repaired as expeditiously as poffib it was well garrisoned, and the fleet sent home along the sea-shore of a neighbouring kingdom called Frevancor, you find scattered several fm Christian churches used by the Paruas who belie in Christ, and owe what little knowledge of ret lion they have to St. Francis Xavier; the Dutc,acquire
Ths. e 6,EM-~~~~~ :M VE-*, 7 vi ~ ~ ~ :i,I--~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~I1,xiL- ;9Â·Â·Â·JeA~:~Â·-is.
quire their hatred by plundering their places of vine worship, and despoiling them of their images; nd to no purpose did our author endeavoured in rut these people in the principles of the reformed arch; there was no possibility of prevailing over heir prejudices, and the influence of the Roman cholic priests dispersed among them in pretty good numbers; yet the whole of the Paruas knowledge insist in their being able to repeat by heart the need, the lord's prayer, the salutation of the virgin, id the ten commandments. Among the few mi hers of the reformed mission, who endeavoured preach the gospel and dispel the missis of igno' nee that overspread this land, was John Ferrara lmeyda, a native of Lisbon, who had been for erl a Roman-catholic, but having abjured tat legion and fled from Goa, he was there burned ins gy; a story which was so well propagated, that could get no body to listen to him, and of con hence no body upon the mission among the Pa as had less success. Tutecoryn, which was taken by the Dutch in t8, not without a warm (iijuie, the gives wing set fire to their town and to Ibmne finally gal s belonging thereto, is properly no more than a lage, as being on every side defenceless, without 11, ditch, or fortification. Here is made the belt e in India. It is adorned with three handsome arches, and several houses well built of stone; and m it there is an entertaining sea prope. The dutch have often, since they gained ground here, tempted to raise some fortifications, but the fove- gn of the territory, or the Nail, with whom they 't care to quarrel, never would permit it; so t they are obliged t use the churches for a sac y, wherein they maintain a principal and deputy or, with three assailants 2nd eight soldiers. Vil. V. C Near
- Near this place is a famous pearl fishery, a short account of which will not perhaps be disagreeableness pearls are found in eatable oysters at eight, nine, or perhaps ten fathom deep, and diving for them is sometimes attended with great danger; this fishery is not allowed every year, because then the oysters would never come to maturity; besides, the oyster beds are often covered with sand. They try by certain experiments if it be a proper time to fish; and if it prove such, the neighbouring inhabitants, together with their families, remove to the ea side, where they live under tents until the season is over, The Dutch have a particular proportion of what is taken, for defending the trade; and the rest is disposed of in the public markets of Tutecoryn and Califfamam.,The pearls of this coast every way exceed such as are taken up near Ormuz on the Persian gulf, whence a great deal of pearl dust is transported to Europe, where it is used in pearls. Pearls seem to be nourished by water and sand, and are esteemed according to their size, shape, and colour.,Tutecoryn is pretty populous, there being a large manufactory for weaving established here; and plenty of sugar, rice, and all kinds of provisions In Sober, this climate is troubled with very violent storms, and during the winter season the rains are sudden and heavy; besides, the air is apt to pro. mote breaking out, and encourage cutaneous dis. orders. The nights of January, February, and March are extremely cold, with their heavy fogs; yet the days are so hot, that people cannot bear to set their naked feet to the ground.,CH A
C H A P. IV. 7'ie deference of seasons in the same degree of latitude accounted for according to reason: sudden gusts of wind dangerous, proved by examples: Tony and' Ncgapatnam described: the latter Surrenders uizn condition to the Hollanders: the hot winds often bave a bad est e: a famine in which the people fell themselves for little or acting : the trade of Trans geba,, Porto-Nuovo, Tegnapatnam, and Tire poplar: the fortifications of the city of Changier described: our author is well received here: a character of his chief minister: Jfme account of the city of Majulipatam: f the diamonds rie?, and other commodities that are exported thence: great hardships in trading in this peace. T will not be airs to observe here that there is something surprizing in the different seasons, which at the very same time of year reign in Tute- oran and Comorin; for while, from April to Sep :ember, both months inclusive, the air is calm set ed and delightful, producing all the blessings of summer, on the south side of Cape Comorin; n he north side the weather is thick, foggy, and un wholesome; the rains pour down in torrents and continued tempests seem to threaten dimmed ate de action; this is caused by the mountains of the Cape, round which the south winds blowing at this mie clear the air on the south side, and carry all he turbulent weather to the northward : the mountains are certainly receptacles of winds and rains, "which, according as they emit, form the seasons nd influence the temperature of the air. This is a truth, our-author observes, that is very discernible on the Cape of the south point of Africans 2 where
where from the caverns and hollow places in the mountains, sudden gusts of wind often rush out, of force sufficient to overturn every thing that opposes them: by one of these, he says, he saw once a coach belonging to some of the Dutch factory over turned, and by another, he himself-was near being born from his horse, keeping the faddle with great difficulty. Those who are well acquainted with the Cape of Good Hope, take the gathering of thick clouds on the top of the table mountain, as an in. fallible sign of an approaching tempest the tops of the mountains near the equinoctial line, soaring to a considerable, nay to a prodigious height, flop the free course of the air, which moves from west to east regularly, and it is thereby con. denied into clouds, and necessarily produces on one side wind and rain, while to the other it gives the most serene weather; for these mountains rise as if to divide winter and summer, and hence the regular rains of spring and autumn are easily accounted for. The country about Columbo, Gale, and Mature, being the most mountainous part of the Isle of Ceylon, has very seasonable rains; while in the open flat country as about Jar napatnam, &c. it rains only in October, Novem. ber, and one small part of the month of Decem ber; the defeat, however, is remedied by fogs an dews: this assertion can also be attested by the in, habitants of Peru, where the land near the noun pains is often refreshed with showers, whereas in th more exposed countries, especially near the fen, they have only heavy fogs or thick dews. It is t be hoped our readers will excuse our detaining the thus long upon this subject, as our intention wash some measure to account for the varieties of weather at the same time prevailing in the self-same climate and for a farther elucidation of this entertainingin,quir 7
query, we beg leave to refer them to lord Verum, and Cartesian, who have treated upon it largely and judiciously there are many of the Paruas churches to be met with on the road from Tutecoryn, to the Isle of Rammanakoyel, which isle abounds in cattle, and takes its name from Brahma or Mamma, and the Malabar word Koyel, which signifies a temple; there being a very fine one erected to the lord of the isle on the sea-side, in which it is said there are immense treasures, and which has its foundation strengthened by stones of prodigious magnitude, whereby the force of the waves dashing against it, and enraged by the south winds, is broken.,'The soil is not over fruitful, it is in general igliht and sandy, so that when the wind blows hard, it is necessary to secure the eyes, which otherwise will sussex. The lord of the isle has built a strong fort opposite to the territory of the Nail on the Coromandel coat ; the cannon of it commands a strait leading to Manaar, Jafnapatnam, and Negapatnam, and with finking a few stones he car quite choak up the channel; thus being entire mailer of the navigation, those who trade in these parts must be always careful of maintaining a good correspondence with him. Here is a very staid watch kept; and in 1662, a lieutenant, by name Herman Eg bert, and Philip Baldaeus were made prisoners, as they passed this way, and very closely confined, be ing k pt for sometime without any thing either to eat or drink ; nor were they released till an inhabitant of Manaar, who chanced to pass the same road and knew our author, offered to answer for him and his companionship this neighbourhood is a ridge of sands and rocks, over which small boats may sometimes pass,,C 3 called.
called Adams-Bridge, of which we shall speak morn largely in our description of Ceylon.,It is now time for us to take some view of the south parts of Coromandel, subject for the mon part to the Nail of Mature and Tanjouwer; and here the first place of any note that we meet with is Tony, whence they yearly transport a great num. her of cattle to Jafn2patnani; and here in the road to Negapatnam, stands a pagode called Hacliemeer, which is a very 1 sty building. The city of Ne. gapatnam is situated near the shore, without any convenient harbour, which is indeed the case all along the coast of Coromandel. Putnam in the Malabar language signifies a city, and vega a ser pent; with a venomous species of which the count. try hereabouts abounds, which arc lhild1 in such veneration by the Pagans, that it is thought an un pardonable crime to kill one; and he who should do it by chance, would look upon it as the prelude of some terrible misfortune. The city of Vega. putnam was taken from the Portuguese in 1659 by the Dutch forces, commanded by John Van der Lean, and Lucas Van der Duffen. It surrendered upon condition, and the Portuguese were allowed to depart with their families, substance and church ornaments, to certain hips appointed by the Dutch for that service. Here are some good buildings and a handsome church, whence there is a good prof. decet of the sea, from which they have breezes very refreshing both to men and beats, but the land winds are hot and trifling; while the latter con ti-sue blowing, the people gather their water in stone vessels, and it keeps very cool: what makes the heat more intolerable is, that these winds obflrua the perspiration, and at Mafulipatan they are so veil sliding, as often to kill the inhabitants. On the north side of Negapatnam, without the gates, frand3,a vert
a very lofty pagode called China; and near it a fine seat with good orchards and elegant gardens built by a rich Portuguese.,Some short time before Baldaeus arrived, the king of Vifiapour had. invaded the country, and destroyed all the fruits of the earth; and after wards, the Nail besieged the city, but was repulsed with considerable lois: these troubles had produced a famine so very rigorous, that the country people not finding subsistence without the gates, crouded into the city in search of rice and other eatables, where there not being sufficient provision for them all, the streets were filled with the most miserable object dying for want, and offering to sell themselves as slaves for a little bread; up wards of five thousand of these emaciated creatures were bought and carried to Jafnapatnam, as many more to Columbo, and several thousands were transported to Batavia, having been purchased upon an average-at ten shillings a head. The Nail has had several struggles with the Dutch since their being fettled here, but he has always been worsted about two leagues from Negapatnam, lies a town called Carnal, where is made a sort of-stuff much in use with the Japanese, called Rambotyns; before the Dutch were matters of Negapatnam, they had a factory in this place three leagues beyond it stands Trangebar, a Danish fort, confiding of four bulwarks, and gar prisoned by Topazes and Negroes; it is inhabited by Portuguese, Pagans, and Mahometanss, who have little or no traffic, and subsist principally by despoiling their neighbours with whom they are always at variance ; because they were formerly treated very ill by them. About the year 1658, one Simon van Medenblick had, acting under a Danish com-,C 4- mission,
mission, taken a Moorish vessel which was very rich: and put the whole crew to the sword.,Porto-Nuovo belonging to the Portuguese, is about four or five leagues from Trangebar, it is in. habited by Portuguese, who trade chiefly in arrack, co-nuts, and hard-wood, called hunter's wood: the Dutch have a story about a league beyond it, at a place called Tegnapntam ; and little farther on, lies Tirepoplier, upon a river which is navigable within half a league of the Dutch factory, where there is good anchorage in a grey sandy bottom in seventy given fathom water: here is a castle of some strength, and a handsome pagode, with a very high flat-roofed shone tower, which serves as a land. mark t mariners. The soil is either rock or sand, and it is under the jurisdiction of Chriftappanaik, who resides at Changier, two days journey to the south of Tirepopiier.,The city of Chandler is well inhabited, three times as large as Rotterdam, situated in a de. ]rightful vale, and watered on the south by a river; it is fortified with double stone walls; on the outside are four high rocks, on one where. of ands a good pagcde, and on each of the other three a firing case: these rocks afford good fishponds, fine gardens, and most delicious springs of water; betides, the principal avenue of the city is commanded by a sort raised upon 'a rock, accessible only on one side. The Nail's pa lace is well defended, and delightfully situated in a hollow between two of the before-mentioned rocks; they have some cannon here made of very long and broad iron bars kept together with firing hoops of the same metal, and their bullets are made of stone cut round; their cannon are of different sizes, and their bullets formed accord ingly.Th,ra The
The Nail received our author and his fellow travellers with great respect for fourteen days, en pertaining them in the mo-splendid manner; and' giving them full view of all his wealth which was prodigious, consisting of gold, silver, jewels, and sumptuous apparel; besides a great number of wives and concubines, and a good army both of horse and'foot. The Nail who was pretty old and almost doating, had committed the care of his king dom at that time to one Trinvingelaya, who had emasculated himself: he was cruel, proud, covetous, and implacable; however, by his severity, he had cleared the country of robbers, who before his ad ministration over-ran it. For one thousand eight hundred rix-dollars yearly, he offered the Dutch an exemption from all duties, free exercise of religion, and liberty to rebuild the sorts of the Portuguese which lay in ruins. As the country is extremely populous, there is a necessity for their being supplied from abroad with provision, though the land is fertile. they export large quantities of linen and woollen to Amboyna,. Banda, and the Moluccas; but their wares must be examined with care, the quality of the things themselves 'being often much inferior to their pat terns. Their imports are lead, tin, copper, quick. silver, cinnabar, musk, mace, nutmegs, and pepper, Sandal-wood, Chinese silks, velvets, potana, girdles,. sattins, and wrought carpets the Dutch have also a factory at Sadrafpatan,. by which place runs the road to Madrafpatan,. other wise Chiunepatan, where the English are fettled at a place called Fort St. George;.,In thirteen degrees and:a half north latitude, is. an antient trading city formerly belonging to the portuguese, but taken from them by the Moors, called St. Thomas,. famous for weaving and dying;.,C 5 the
the perfection of the last art being attributed to the excellency of their water, which rises from a white sandy od, quite free from clay about five leagues from St. Thomas, sands the town of Paliacatta, where there is an indifferent harbour; and six leagues tip-the country in a dire line, on the south side of a valley very plain to be seen, formerly sicod the old cable of Rama Gridiron where now appears fort Gloria, a place in which a Dutch governor resides, and which is strong enough to resist any attempts of the neigh pouring Moors; it is garrisoned by upwards of ninety Moors, and half a league from shore there is a good anchorage during the south monsoon, at seven fathom and a half water; but the waves breaking out of the bay of Bengal and from the Ganges with great violence, render anchoring very dangerous in the northern monsoon about three leagues and a half from the road is a sand bank stretching into the sea for about the Space of a league, where there is no anchorage for shipping at four fathom and a half and five fa thomas water: and a little farther off there is another extending two leagues and a half into the sea; but there is no safe anchorage though at seven fathom water: however, within the mouth of the river under protection of the castle, lies the city of Arragon, near which is the forest of Siercourdi whence the city is furnished with wood both for fuel d building. Sith is plenty enough abo; Paliacatta, but no other species of provision, the ground being sandy and nitrous, unfit to produce any grain: the fortifications hereabouts for a good way being built upon fenny ground are, during the rainy seasons often in danger of being swallowed up by water, and therefore are not maintained butt :great expence. The canal leading to Paliacatta,almo0l
almost dry during the southern monsoon but du ring the northern, overflows the land for upwards of two leagues. Under the cannon of Fort Gloria are two villages both inhabited by fishermen, who were converted to the Christian faith by the Portuguese that on the south side called Dismay, and that on the north side within musket hot is called Coupon; but the people in both are poor and very ignorant the kingdom of Carnatic which falls next under our inspection is sixty Barbarian leagues long, ex tending from north to south, and forty broad from Paliacatta to the Malabar coast, each league being equal to three Dutch miles. In this country live three nails or chief lords, who pay a certain yearly tribute to the crown of Velour. These are the vitipanik of Mature, the king's baron-bearer, who pays one thousand two hundred Dutch guilders a year; the chiftpanaik of Changier, the king's betel. box bearer, who pays the same tribute, and the nail of Tanjouwer, his umbrella-bearer, who pays just double. These dignities have been annexed to the provinces wherewith they are-mentioned, and descended from father to on for many generations; the possessor being obliged to attend personally in office at every coronation ,About a day's voyage to the north of Paliacatta lie Penna and Culture, between which places is found a root about a span long, very necessary to the dyers; it is called the eflaye-root, and if when broken it appears red on the inside, or has a ni trous taste on being chewed, it is then right good : or if it .fand.the force of lemon juice squeezed on the calico wherewith it is tinged and dried in the fun; but if the colour be bad, it will thereupon fade. For the natives who are great harpers, in teat of the original dye, will endeavour to paljmi,C 6. you
you off with fordyce, and the bark of a tree that grows in Orixa; but they are: easily to be known from the true efface, by their colour being much d rker.,From Orixa and Mafulipatam are imported rely, rice, gingerly seeds, oil, butter, coarse cloths, iron, honey, and yellow wax; the voyages out and home engrossing four months or thereabouts. To African, Pegu, and Tanaffery are exported pepper, sandal. wood, susss, iron, and steel, at the rate of eight or ten per cent freightage; the returns for which are rubies of Ava, gummi-lacca, long white pepper, lead, &c. Tin is a good commodity among the Moors, for they inlay with it all their copper vessels, and it is brought from Manager, Senza, and Perch, which are harbours that lie opposite to Aches, betwixt Tanaffery and Occeda, towards Malabar.,The city of Petapouli is in a kingdom of the same name, lying in sixteen degrees north latitude; it is not very large, and is peopled by Gentiles, which are the king of Golconda's fubjeAs, and some Moors and Persians that are rich: here is good in dig, but it bears a high price; and the Dutch ex port from hence to Europe, cotton yarn, white stuffs, and some other commodities; their dyed stuffs, exceed those of Mafulipatam, an excellence which is t be attributed to a superfine efface colour called tambrevelle, that grows in an isle formed by the river opposite to the city, which the governor monopolizes, paying to the king a certain yearly tribute for it, in dyed stuffs and cloths which he has wove and dyed under his own eye; this root is about a foot long, and of so deep a-colour, that to make it more lively, they are forced to mix it with the eflaye of Arrival and Ortacour.,Mafulipatam is a place of considerable trade, not only for all sorts of European wares, but for vari-,ons
vous kinds of commodities brought from China and the Molucca islands. Diamonds:are considerable part of the traffic of this place, they are found in great numbers in the kingdoms of Golconda and Decay, not far from the city of Byfilaga; those who farm the mines have only a right to such stones as weigh twenty-five carats or less, all of a greater weight being engrossed by the king of Byfilaga The mountain of Costa Cynthia in the country of Decay, affords very fine diamonds, as does also some parts of the island of Borneo. There are also. good rubies bought at Mafilipatam, where the English and Dutch have very large stories: the city is well peopled, but the governor, who pays a certain yearly tribute to the king of Golconda, op presTes the native Gentiles, over whom again the Moors, who farm all the weaving trade from the great men, bear also a very high hand: and he who has a mind to makeany advantages of trade here, must obtain the king's patent to that purpose;. which is not easily had, as the court is so very distant from hence; besides, securing the interest of his favourites, to complete this end, is vastly expensively H A *
C H A P. .V. X treatise on the virtues and value of the diamonds rubies, emeralds, fathers, amethysts, and various other commodities the produce of the East-Indies. H ' Having several times mentioned diamonds rubies, and. other precious stones as principal commodities in the traffic of the Gaff, we flatter ourselves that a short chapter, explaining their na ture, and illustrating their perfections, will not prove disagreeable to. our readers: wherefore we shall begin with the diamond's we admit, with one naturalists, that the specific gravity of stones determines their value, as of metals; we muss allow, what I believe no body will at this time contradict, that the diamond ought to be preferred to all others; as among stones it is what gold is among metals: it is called adams by the Latins, defiant by the Germans, diamant by the French, adamant by the Spaniards, alias by the Arabians, titan by the Malabars, and hiera-and sua by the Hindostan. It is the hardest and most transparent, as well as the simplest and most homo. generous of all bodies; it is often blemished with black, white, and yellow pecks, whereby the value of it is considerably diminished, though it requires great skill to perceive them ; for which reason those who are not judges of its nature are subject to great imposition there is a kind of diamond called bofchiers, which though perhaps brighter than any others, is not by one third so valuables there are very often clouded with red and yellow spots, whereby their value is much diminished. A diamond can be cut only by a diamond, and the more the powder of :approaches a deep ash or grey colour, the meretricious
precious is the stone, that-which produces a white powder being of small estimation. Diamonds are also tried by being heated red-hot, and then sudden ly plunged in water, when if they are right good, they won't crack. They are sold at so much a ca rat, and are found in four mines in the kingdoms of Golconda and Fifiapour, and in two rivers, one in the kingdom of Bengal, the other in the island of Borneo. They are not known t be produced in any other parts of the world. The diamond powder is rank poison; for it penetrates the bowels, so very subtile is its nature the ruby is called ruins and pyrrhus in the Latin; in French, rubis; by the Siamese, basal mora; and baal by the Indians: it is a bright transparent ruddy gem, of considerable hardness, and will resist the fire a long time; the bes sort are found in the island of Ceylon, and some chemists pretend, without 'sufficiently supporting the assertion, to have extracted a tincture from it. The four species of rubies are, first, the true oriental ruby or carbuncle, the most valuable of which has a fine fiery luifre; second, the bacillus, the red of which is much more faint; thirdly, the rubiculus, of a degree of redness between the two former; and fourthly, the fponalcus which is softer and less resplendent than the others. There are rubies found also in Germany, but they are much browner than those brought from the Gaff, though very hard, consequently less valuable they are seldom larger than a sizeable pea, and are very thin, being made still more so by the po fisher, with a view to increase their lustre; they are appraised like diamonds by the carat, and valued according to their hardness.,An emerald is a most beautiful green gem, very transparent and glittering, but so brittle as often to crack of itself; it is called in Latin, fmaragdus;,!a
in Arabic, tamar; in French, emerald; an by the Indians, suche. Emeralds are found a well in Peru, as in the East-Indies-but then tho of the latter are much more valuable for lustre and transparency: there are some good ones to be had in Scythia; nor are they unknown to the soil ol Egypt. For hardness, splendor, and transparency, no gem approaches so near a diamond as a faphir, of which there are two sorts the male and-female; the former is of a beautiful ky colour, with a purple refraction; the latter is very pale; they abound in Malabar, Calecut, Ceylon, and Bifnagar; but the very best are said to be the produce of Siam, and Pegu. There are a few accidentally found in Silesia and Bohemia. They are known by the name of mile by the Arabians, and milan by theMulayans; the French call them also faphir; and it is remark able the colour may be discharged from the blue fa pair, and the stone then looks like diamond the amethyst of the East-Indies is reckoned of the finest purple, and preferred to any others, The hyacinth which is found in Spain, is of two kinds, red and yellow, but neither will bear the fire here is a sort jasper greatly esteemed, in colour like the emerald; and so very large that drinking cups and several pretty knick-knacks are made out of it; some of them are veined with purple, rose colour, blue and dark brown; and-there as well as toys made of amber, the succinct of the Latins, are very saleable commodities in many parts of India; the latter is a resin substance, endued with a sort of attractive power, that operates upon straw, chaff, or any such light matter they have a stone in India called cats-eyes, that. lenders linen to which it is rubbed fire-proof, as the Indians affirm but a linen draper would,iufE
sussex in making the experiment, for this has been proved a vulgar error. The blood-shone or haematites which is found in Ceylon and Cambaya, where it is called filakenea, has its name partly from its colour, and partly from its power of staunching blood. It is also common in New-spain, where the people wear it about their necks in beads; and the women, after having steeped them in cold water a short while, hold them close shut in their hands, which they deem a good remedy against the sanguinary flux of the menses. The nephritis or kidney-shone is of a green colour; and found both in the East and Weel-Indies, where it is deemed by the inhabitants a remedy against any pain in the kidneys. The true serpent stone is found in a mols vene- nisi kind of serpent called cobra de cabelo by the Portuguese; and in Latin, serpens pious; it is of a dark brown colour with a white spot in the middle, not unlike an eye: one assert that it grows ih the head of a serpent, and others say that if the ser pent be hung by the tail over a Vessel of water, this stone drops from him; it is deemed a re. mede against the dropsy if tied to the belly of the person afflicted if the water, in which the stone is immersed, chances, upon the immersion, to bubble, the stone is then deemed right good,. otherwise it is not thought efficacious ; it is also accounted good, if it slick to the-lips of a wound till i't fall off, having imbibed all the poison or virulence from it, which may be again extracted by sleeping the sone in milk: and of its virtue in this respect, .our author assures us he was an eye wit res, having himself seen it applied with good. success, to a negro who had been bitten by a ser pent. Kircher, in the ninth book of his subterranean world, speaks more at large of this stone and: its virtues; but it is to be observed, the Bramins.,make
make a certain composition in imitation of the fe, pent sone, the ingredients of. which they keep ver secret; but which are supposed principally to be th serpent's head, heart, teeth, and liver, mixed wit[ terra figillata.,The petra de porch or hog's stone is sometimes of a grey, sometimes of a ruddy colour, oF a bit. perish taste, and feels greasy in the hand; it i steeped in water, till it communicates thereto its bitterness, and that beverage is administered in fevers and other inflammatory disorders, the Indians being strongly repossessed in favour of its virtues; it is found in the vesica bulgaria of hogs about Malacca, There is one agate found in the neighbourhood of Surat, but it is little esteemed unless wrought with figures: also the. sardonyx, so called from its re. semblance to a man's navel the toad-stone is procured by enclosing an old toad in a perforated vessel, and burying it in a dung. hill near an ant's nef, to which infect it falls a prey, being all consumed except this stone, which is deemed an excellent remedy against the stone in the kidneys, poison, and stomachic infirmities: it grows in the toad's head, is as large as a bean, and of several colours, particularly green ; the outside of it is smooth and shining, of a bony nature ; but the interior substance appears like the stone. If a tor toise, in the way of which it is purposely laid, passes without taking any notice, it is deemed good for nothing, but his attempting to swallow it, lamps it genuine.,In the stomach of the goats of Persia, and of the sand of Borneo, is found the bezoar-stone, formerly reckoned a great antidote, and still ac. counted medicinal in many cases; it is a solid sub, fiance, of an oval form, of a dark green or olive complexion, and if broken, appears to be compos' ed of several coats, one encouraging the other, something
thing like an onion. It is found by the people of Banda in the-head of an ape. The Chi nee and Indians take it in role-water as a specific against poison, the hypochondria and quam. tan agues; and after having purged, which they constantly twice a year, they take from ten to thirty grains of bezoar by way of preservative and strengthener. This stone is sold by the carat for three times its weight in gold; and the Malayans say, the-stone that don't turn mortar, to which it is rubbed, yellow is not good ; it is also tried by drawing a needle and thread tinged with one very subtle poison thro' the leg of a dog; to which when it is just fainting, a small quantity of bezoar powder is administered; anti if it don't immediately recover him, the stone is deemed adulterated-this stone takes its name of Bezoar or Bezoar, from the Persians, in whose language it signifies lord of poison; and by the Arabians it is called Hagar Corrosion. When the first coat is stripped off, the second appears more smooth and right; there is a mealy substance contained in the center of it, deemed more efficacious than the powder of the Stone ; it is found in .the goats of the Peruvian mountains as well as those of the East-indies, and is wrapt up in a hairy sort of bag, of about a span long, that grows in the concavity of the stomach; nor are those of the low countries near equal in goodness to those of the hills.,As indigo is a principal commodity in the Indian trade, it will be necessary to say something of its nature and properties before we finish this chap ter there are many species of Indigo which grow in different places; it is a shrub about the height of a man, having a small hard twig like the black berry bush, its blossom resembles that of the briar,,and
and the seed is like that of the manum grecum, It is sown in June and July, and reaped in Novem. ber and December. The broad sort grows at the village of Churches, whence it derives its name; two leagues from the city of Amadabath, the capital of Gufurat; it bears three crops in three years, after which it is good for little ; nor are the second and third year's crops seemed so valuable as the first. The first year the leaves are cut about a foot above the ground, and after being dried twenty. four hours in the fun they are put into barrels of fait water, and the injure pressed out with large stones laid on them to a great weight for four or five days, during which the water is kept in constant motion, and then it is drawn off into larger vessels where it is kept continually stirring and trodden down till the water becomes thick, and the indigo falls to the bottom: then it is separated from the water, trained through thin cloths, and being covered with white aes spread on the ground to dry. The country people adulterate it either with oil, or with an earth of the same colour, to make it seem the better upon the watershed chief signs of the goodness of indigo are its being light and dry, its swimming upon the wa ter, and emitting, if thrown upon the fire, a vio. let-coloured smoke, and leaving behind it but few ashes. The ground appropriated to the produce of indigo muff lie fallow the fourth year, unless you chuse to sow it with kitchen herbs. There is a sort of indigo called by the people of Gufu- rat Ariel de Giant; it grows chiefly in the rainy seasons, June, July, August, and September, tho' too much rain is pernicious to it; the ground about it must be well cleared of thistles and thorns, and great care muss be taken in the purchase of it to see that it be right dry, otherwise the buyer may lose three pounds out of ten in eight or nine,daysj
says. The indigo laura or the indigo de banana s of three different species; the first called Touchy. isis a light blue colour, and appears of a violet colour if squeezed in the fun upon the thumb nail; the second is called Gerry, and is the more valuable the nearer it approaches the violet complexion; the third called Cateol is the worst of all, and is of a ruddy hue, and alios too hard to be broken.,C H A P. VI. The reasons of the Europeans in the East Indies being disordered very frequently : methods to be taken to preserve health in this climate: the tea-j7irub de scribed, and the methods used to preserve it: its physical virtues compared with these of coffee and hocÃ³late : the manner in which the Europeans drink, Sleep, and eat, and divide their time here: the roil and course of the rivers Ganges and the Nile described. WT E hall conclude this account of Malabar Â¥W and Coromandel with our author's narra time of the Dutch manner of living in the East Indies; but before we proceed upon it, it is necessary to premise, that the heats which are excessive would be intolerable, were they not allayed by the sea breeze, which is surprisingly refreshing and cool; for which reason the many distempers that affrEt the Europeans in these parts, is rather to be attributed to their own intemperance and debauch very than to the inclemency of the climate. To lie in bed here after sun-rise is not deemed whole some, wherefore they are generally up early; and rome immediately upon their rising wash themselves from head to foot, either in cold or in luke-warm wa ter; but our author rather advises the latter ashore
more wholesome: they also shift their linen ever day; and those who have a special regard to thei health abstain from strong liquors, and take only spoonful of brandy before dinner, and a little a night before they go to bed.,Tea is greatly used among them; it is a Chinese shrub that does not rise to any great height; the flower of which is dried, rolled up, and laid by for use. In the beginning of summer it bears a light-coloured blossom, of a very agreeable scent; to which succeeds a green bud, that at length turns black: the leaf after being gently warmed in an iron pot, is spread upon a clean mat, where it is rolled up and then put over the fire again till it is thoroughly dry; after which process it is put up carefully in canisters of lead or tin, close shut, to prevent the air getting to it, which would soon corrupt it, and it is laid by for use. It-is of dis ferment forts, and priced according to its goodness; it exhilarates the spirits, and disperses the oppressions of the stomach and heaviness of the head, Kircher attributes to it a diuretic quality; and the Chinese imagine that to it is owing their never hav ing the-out.,Tea is more mild in its nature than either cos see or chocolate, for the latter inflames the blood and gives a plethora, and the former increases the gall; vet too much tea is bad, especially if taken after meals, because it hinders the concoction of the stomach, and dries up the moisture of the bo dy; for which reason the Chinese never drink it after meals: four or five cups of the extra of the tea leaf, just gathered, generally make the head giddy the best common drink in this climate is water and sugar boiled together; and three or four glasses of strong mountain wine thrown into an earthen vessel and left to tant all night in the dew, affords very
very pleasant liquor, but rather too cool; where re it is not amiss to temper it with good mum, which drinks much better here than in Europe, but is extremely dear, being sold sometimes for a hundred rix-dollars per cask. Spanish wines are in. oft esteem here, the stomach in these hot countries during a stronger cordial than either French or henilh wines can communicate; though the rymer are sometimes inflammatory. Goats, keep, arec, peacocks, and other fowl, are the common od in there countries. The middle of the day being, because of the eat, very unfit for business, is generally spent in keep, which is certainly wholesome, the temperature of the air disposing the body to drones after dinner the mouth ought always o be washed ; tea is generally taken in an after noon about four o'clock; and the evening, which is cool and pleasant, especially if the moon shines, makes a walk very agreeable. The time of sup per is about eight, and about ten, or perhaps eleven, they go to sleep upon quilts, feather-beds not being used here; however, the soldiers and seamen often sussex severely from the cramp, which is very apt to tail them, more especially when they hare heated with arrack or other strong liquors, if they do not cover closely their belly, hips, and legs. Having described to you the manner of living of the Dutch, and it is much the same with the practice of other Europeans who inhabit this climate; it might, perhaps, be expected that we hould say something particular of the manners and religions of the natives ; but this is an account whiche reserve for another place. As we have mentioned the Ganges in many places as one of the principal rivers in India, we hallowing
wind up this chapter with a few words relative to and the river Nile.,The Ganges divides the easterly from the wesley ly part of India; it was thought by St. Austin, S Jerome, and some others of the fathers to be th same with the Prison of holy writ; but this opinion has been sufficiently disproved by Cornelius a La side. This great river disembogues itself into th sea of Bengal, called Sinus Gangeticus and Sin A'rgaricus by Ptolemy: Kircher affirms its four to be Mount Teeth, where he says the Indus the Bave, and the Other also take their rise; but th( more general received opinion is, that the head oi the river Ganges is in Mount Caucasus. The In. diana deduce its origin from heaven, wherefore they call it te heavenly river, and imagine that washing in it cleanses from sin, a point wherein the people of Bengal are so very superstitious, that they carry their dying friends hither and bathe them, the sick man crying out, " Ganges purify me, Ganges " cleanse me from fin.",That water was a purifier from sin, seems to hav been the opinion not only of the heathens, but of the Jews in general, which appears from Pilate's washing to avoid any guilt that might be imputed to him from condemning Jesus Christ, at the desire of the people; and here are people who make a trade of carrying the water of the Ganges about for sale, in the same manner as our Saw water is sold, for which they get a very god price, and pay a heavy cuflom.,The Persians deem it a crime to throw carrion into, or even to spit in the river, and they believe that for one single year, that the bones of their an censors W which are thrown into this river remain in it, their souls hall enjoy bliss a thousand years; and if the ones remain ten years, the soul hall enjoy heaven ten thousand, and lo in proportion.,Kircher
Kircher .placed the original spring of the Nile ins the country of Agoas near Sagely bordering upon the kingdom of Gojam; others, and it is the most generally received opinion, believe it to be among the mountains, of the moon, near the Cape of Good Hope, on the African coast;. It-is supposed to arise in a plain on the top of a mountain, surrounded by delightful trees, but.not to gather into a rivulet till at the foot of, the mountain, where being greatly increased by other attentive firearms, it forms a lake thirty miles long and fourteen broad, from whence it pursues a long. meandring course, till it returns to the neighbourhood of its source, where rlbing over many rocks and precipices,' i forces its way into the middle of Ethiopia:: it was held in .such veneration by the antient Egyptian, that they called it.the arm of Osiris, their principal God; for the Pagans, it is well known, not only made gods of the elements, but paid divine honours their rivers also. VCL. V,. D A DE.
A DESCRIPTiON of the Island of CEYLON,with a short Review of the Dispute therein between the Portuguese an( the Dutch. Extracted from the Ac count of PHILIP BALDAEUS.,CHAP. L he situation, extent, and different names f Ccyls Supposed bygone to be the original Paradise : of it different kinds of commodities: a political and rely. pious character f the natives: an account of ths king of Ceykln's residence; the Strength .of it: poisonous rivers: of the divisions, villages, and churches of afnapatnam : of a curiously of turtle dove: of thetford of the wild elephant: of thefuc. cess of thefchools erdedfor the inflation of you: sacred interludes played by the Jesuits to entertain and teach the peoples T E R having given a general account of the climate, commodities and divisions the island of Ceylon, we shall proceed to say something of the antient government of it under its kings, and the various revolutions that have happened therein, since its having been first dis covered by the Portuguese, of which our author gives a very impartial account; and this he was well enabled to do, because he attended the Dutch camp at the time that the Hollanders wrested the jurisdiction of this island out of the hands of Por. tubal and was, with respect to such particulars
B'^ jas .,.L.**** ~Lm . ,.^ . < l ,' de S- ' w~ A O ocean, il ., lt* I ) s Ins I AN 0 CE A,,"1111lB tilliliill Ulilali BEIIIII 1 ill 111 111 Ullii i1 1/ 1- 111111 i 9tl3.Jon~~~~~~d>Xs Ptt7> 981 . 99iDECil~;
as did not fall immediately under his observation, a very eat and curious inquirer the island of Ceylon, by some supposed to-be the Taprobana of the antients, tho' others believe it to have been Sumatra, is situated in the Indian sea, between the sixth and tenth degree of north latitude, aid seventy-eight and eighty-two degrees of eat longitude, about forty-five leagues east of Cape Comorin: it is, by the best computation at this day, judged to be two hundred and fifty miles long and two hundred broad; it is hoped like a ham, and was supposed to have been formerly join ed to the main land, from which it is divided only by a narrow freight, but that the connexion has been broken off by the depredations of the sea. It has many commodious harbours, and is divided in to several kingdoms, the principal of which are Candea, where the king, who among other titles assumes that of Lord of the Golden Sun, takes up hisrefidence, Jafnapatnam, Botecalo, and Colombo where the Dutch have their chief settlement, and their governor resides.,'The Indians distinguish this island by the name of 'T'eiafliim, which signifies the land of delight; and they imagine that it was the seat of Paradise, shewing the mark of a foot impressed upon a rock, bs which we shall hereafter speak more at large; whence they believe Adam mounted to heaven. It was discovered by the PortugueSe in the year 1509, and they kept possession of it more than a century. It is extremely fertile, producing every thing al most that is useful to human nature; great part of it is covered with forests of citron, oranges and cinnamon, the odour of which diffuses itself to the distance of some leagues at sea. There is variety of valuable gems to be found here, but no dia. minds; its pearls are not so good as those of Or hus or Tutecoryn, but its ivory, of which there is,D 2 here
'here vas plenty, is reckoned the bell in the world, 'where are extensive mines of iron and copper, nor is it thought.defiitute of gold and fiver.,The natives of Ceylon are-extremely give, be. ing deemed the best walters in the world. The ,common people go naked, except .a slight covering on the privities; but the better sort wear long gar. ments of very slight superfine cloth, which they or. narrent with jewels; they are of a fierce warlike .disposition, and when taught, handle their sword, muskets, bows, arrows, and javelins with great tex. verity. The skin of the crocodile, which is to ,be found here very common, serves them for buck. hers, and are proof against a musket-shot. On the backs of their elephants they build little wooden towers, capable of containing ive or six soldier-whence they annoy their enemies with success, being very good marksmen : they are most of them idol. terms, though intermixed with Tome Mahometan', who are allowed free exercise of their religion, ad a few Chrifiians.,About one fourth of.the island of Ceylon is distinguished by the name of Candea, or Candy: mos of the country round it, is now in the hands of the Dutch; in spite of whom the king still keeps possession .of this territory, which is on every side surrounded by very high mountains, and covered with this forests; so that the passes leading to it are narrow and difficult, and his majesty takes care to keep them well guarded, not only to prevent the ap proach of foreigners, but the egress of his own ful sec; wherefore this trade of land is at present bu irttle known. It is divided into several diflricla well watered by rivers that are poisonous, and the course not navigable, being often broken by ri'gt of rocks; vet they fertilize the lands through whic they pAss; whereon are to be found good vines, v piety of pulse, &c. on the banks of the chiefs,the'
these, which is. called Trinquelemale, stands the city of Candea, about thirty leagues frorr the sea.,Jafnapatnam is populous and fertile, supposed to be about six German leagues long, and three' broad; it is a peninsula walled' to the northward' by the gulf of Bengal, and having a pleasant river to-the southward, which takes two different courses' to the ocean. It is divided into' four provinces,. called Belligamme, Tenmarache, Waddamarache, and Patchiarapalle: in the firs of these are four teen churches ; the principal of which, called Te lipo!i, has a house belonging to it, and a school in, which a thousand children were intruded by our author and his-assistants in.the principles of Chris dignity ; they have good gardens and pleasant vine yards annexed; which are well-watered, and planted with all sorts of Indian fruits, planted by the Jesuits. Here Baldaeus informs us, that he preached several' times, and often to an audience of two-thousand: people. At some distance is the church of MIgailam- with an adjoining house raised upon arches, and ai good pair of flairs reaching to the top ; it was be gun by the Portuguese, but finished the Dutch,, being of brick-work, and having a school of two hundred boys the church of Mayletti, which has a school of seven hundred and'fifty boys, is of stone, as is the house belonging to it; from a balcony on the top of which there is an extensive fea-profpea, the situation being not more than half a mise from the sea-side; consequently its not surprizing that crabs,. sales, and various other kinds of fih- abound here;. besides which, there are fine hares and partridges, The village of Machiavelli is shine; situated among. woods, in which are plenty c.f flags, hares, and. wild-boars; serpents are very troublesome here;-,D . 'but
but they have a kind of turtle-dove, which cones so very regularly, that the inhabitants need no other clock. Here is-a lofty shone church, capable of holding two thousand persons, and a school of more than four hundred boys. As there were many an. tient Bramins resident here in our author's time, the progress of Christianity was slow but one of them, who was a man of great learning, being converted in the 46th year of his age, wrote a fine poem in the Hanfcreet language, which is the best kind of .Malabar, upon the life and death of our Saviour.,The soil of Ondewil, where there is a school of six hundred boys, and a church and house former Iv belonging to a Franciscan friar, is fertile, pro during good rice and other provisions; as also do the fields about Batecotte, which stands near the slit river, and has a large school, with a good church and an adjoining house, adorned with plea. sant gardens there are many more villages, each having its church, which it would be tedious to enumerate; ,therefore we fall only observe, that those of Ma repay and Valour, not far from Jafnapatnam, have churches built of clay, and covered with palm leaves, each having been formerly the fiction of a paget; nr are the inhabitants so mild and capable of instruction as their neighbours ; which difference cf disposition can, by our author, be accounted for r.o other way than by their having been corrupted by some calico weavers, transplanted hither from the continent, who succeed but poorly, because the wa ter is not very fit for their use. The people are pa guns, spiteful and superstitious; nor is it easy to teach the boys that frequent the schools, who are naturally very dull of apprehenfior.,There are five villages with their respective churches in the province of Tenarache: the first.
of which called Navacouli, is built only of.clay, covered with palm-leaves; it is situated in a fruit ful plain, and the neighbouring woods are full of venison and wild, fowl, as well as many apes and monkeys. The village of Chavagatzery lies at some distance it is the larges i this province; here is plenty of fish, fine gardens well flocked with fruit, and the people maintain themselves by fishing and agriculture In the school of Chavagatzery are. above a thousand boys the road to Cathay is sandy and fatiguing ; the church and house are of clay covered with leaves; but the place abounds with snipes, herons, Indian ravens, &c. and there are several ponds well stored with wild-ducks.,Waranni is situated in a sandy soil; the ways leading to it are heavy and tiresome; it is remark able for the best water melons in India; and all round are very fine woods of areca, coco, palm, banana, mangos, cajou, and guiavo-trees. The church, fitted for two thousandfold hundred auditors is but slenderly built: however, it is surround ed by a wall. of earth-and the house adjoining has a good entrance and one handsome apartments the church of Illondi Mutual is only of clay; but the house is of stone, with high steps and a spa pious hall; it belongs to the village of Agar Kojel, where was formerly a famous pagode, and which has great numbers of peacocks; as also one tame elephants, maintained for the use of the Dutch factory. Wild elephants are sometimes seen in this precin.c,In the province of Waddemarache are only three churches, with their respective villages and houses. Provisions are so cheap in this province that you may buy a sheep for the value of eight-pence, sixty eggs for three-pence, and four pullets for five pence.,D. 4 The
The church and house of Catavelli are built oi brick; and from a summer-house in the garden, the top whereof is flat, there is a fine land-profpea.,The church of Uneputti has an auditory of near nine hundred persons; and in the school there are upwards of six hundred children, who are taught to draw their letters in sand : but the village is ina. bited by a lawless set.os thieves of the Allows race, who have among them very little religionists moi spacious and beautiful church in the whole province of Waddemarache is that of Pari ture, so called from the plenty of cotton shrubs growing hereabouts; the word Pasture implying cotton-harbour in the Malabar language: it is call ed by the Portuguese Punta des Petra. At this place a flag is displayed as on as any hips are dis. covered at tia, to guide them into the road, where there is safe anchorage, except in the time of the northern monsoon.,In very hot days, our author informs us, he used to preach under an umbrageous tamarind-tree, which afforded his auditory a moor agreeable shade.,Patchiarapalla is the fourth and last province of Jafnapatram, the inhabitants of which. ane very pear, feeding chiefly upon dried fifi and a little rice; They are much afflicted with the itch and small-pox, a.:d are open troubled with a malignant fever, the turns whereof depend upon the moon, and which is very fataL MA\any of their children are carried off by a swelling in the groin and belly; and they are mingled with wild-elephants, which resort hither iD i;ur:,bcrs to feed upon the palm-tree fruit, of. which trey are very fond, and on which the poorer sorts inhabitants also feed.,1 his province abounds with sugars or hunter's wood; and here are women who make a trade of blowing into certain mugs, called clings, as into a trumpet, from whence arises an inharmonious forts
of music. There are four churches and villages it this division: the first of-which Poelepolay, is fur rounded by a high wall, and has port-holes like a. fortification, to defend it from the incursions of the. Cingalefe, who are sometimes troublesome. The church of Mogommale is built in a wood; but that of Jambamme, which has nine hundred auditors, and a school containing five hundred boys,. is the largest in the whole province, The last church of the four is that of Mulatto, about a day's journey from Jafnapatnam ; it has port-holes for its defence; but it is low and meanly built. Before: we quit the territory of Jafnapatnam, it's necessary to observe, that mois-of the churches were founded by the Portuguese and that adjoining to; each is a theatre, 'wherein the Jesuits-and others of. the Roman clergy used to informant divert the: people with interludes taken from the Bibles C H A .
C H A P. II. Of a merrill tempest and sod in the ;land of Oura.,lure: tee chair of Donna Clara a large ane: a de. friction f the island of Ourature, Caradiva, Pongardiva, Analativa, Nainativa, and Ninus. diva: the great danger of approaching the las of ithfe: a spring cf free water caused by thunder: r.umn,-r of Christians in afnapainam: same ac count of the manners of the Bramins, the Bellales, the Chattels, the Paruas, the Pere, the. Phidias. andfeveral other tribes. 'TE [hall now proceed to take a view of the NVV six adjacent little islands; the firs of which, called Ourature, abounds with flags and fil,. and. plenty of a red dye called face. It is said there is good butter here, and variety of larks and sea-gulls. This island hath three churches, the auditory of which, taken all together, amount to two thousand six hundred people: it has been often subject great floods; and in a tempest that happened here in 658, trees were torn up by the roots, houses uncovered, and the water, which bore down all that flood in its way, left behind on its retiring great quantity of fish.,On the island of Caradiva, which is separated on. ly by a river from Ourature, is a stone church and a good house; it produces the belt face in all In dia; and together with a neighbouring isle, called by the Portuguese Illa Deserta, supplies the Dutch Â£.ips with wood for firing ; but both abound with very venomous serpents the natives of Pongardiva are very tall; the sand is large but the ground rocky, and not over tuitfui: however, here are great quantities of pea-cocks,
:w~~~~~ 4~~~~~~~~~~~Â· "~~ - Li;~ a - :i,0~~i
cocks, stags, hares; and large oysters, with other sorts of fish, are caught on every side of the island there are plenty of delicious oysters found, also. upon the island of Analativa, whereon are about: a thousand inhabitants, reckoning men, women,, and children. It was called in the time of the: Portuguese Donna Clara, after a lady of that name, who was for some time proprietor of it, and whose chair, big enough to contain two people, is still shewn in remembrance of her.,Nainativa is a very small island inhabited by Christians who were formerly Bramins, and lead very regular lives. It has a small church, and abounds with jackals. The last of these is called Ninus dva, or the Long Isle, called by the Portuguese the Cow Land, on account of the abundance of cattle transported hither from Today; they are not large indeed, but special good and very cheap, sell ing for half a rixdollar each the soil often produces herbs of so venomous a nature, that feeding thereon sweeps off the whole herds; and our author spent eight days at one time here, when provisions were so scarce that he and his company had like to-have been starved: the in habitants are very wretched, and their diet gene rally miserable. The coast all round is so rocky that there is no coming to. land, except in very. calm weather, which happens twice a year at the change of the monsoon. Here are to be seen the: ruins of a fort formerly belonging to the Portuguese who imported hither some horses, which. have multiplied extremely, and are:fmall but hardy, and well calculated to travel on stony ground. Here is a species of goats which produce bezoar stones, but they are not the best in the world. There is, but one spot in the whole isle that produces fre-sh water, and this is a list among the rocks, caused,, if you'll believe the tales of the inhabitants, by, a,,1) 6 tlludJesr
thunder-bolt, wherein there are two or three spring$ of hlf a foot and a foot deep. The inhabitants are near eleven hundred in number. Our author reckons, that in the year 663 there were sixty-two thousand five hundred and fifty-eight Christians in t40e province ofjafnapatnam and its precincts, besides two thousand five hundred and eighty-seven slaves, who were not ignorant of Christian principles.,As the Bramins challenge the first rank among the Pagans, so do the Bellales among the native Christians they have a trip of cloth wrapt round the ravel, and turning down round the thighs and for part of the legs like drawers, they have thick soles fastened under their feet, which are left bare.to pre vent the inconveniencies of sweating. n. a bag called maddi, hanging just before them, they carry betel and areca: on their right side they have a sheathed knife, with a piece of feel whereon to sharpen it, and an iron pen tipped with silver; their ears, which they draw down to their shoulders, they adorn with golden pendents: and their wealth conies of cows, oxen, keep, goats, and buffaloes. Their habitations. are very neat; and their gardens handsomely laid our, and well watered. Oalober- ,nd November make their winter and rainy season; and their harvey is in january and February, tho' in some places where te ground slow and marshy-hey have two harvests in the year. While the rains continue, for the space of two months incessantly,. they are extremely violent, and the lands are all overflown; but there is scarcely any wet weather. during the rest of the yea ; wherefore they are obliged to water even their cocoa-trees till they are tix years old. The ground at two feet deep is very rocky, out of which to cut springs of fresh water is very chargeable and troublesome they are fond of butter, which is made with a sort of mill like that wherewith chocolate is pre-spared
pared for the palate, and of curdled milk which they call tar, and administer in fevers and the small pox. as a cooler. The Bellales in general are rich, litigious and envious;, they generally marry in spring, in this circumstance imitating the Romans,. who used to wed in May They take wives, each in his own clan or family. They marry off their daughters at ten or eleven years of age; for they deem it a sin to.lofe any part of that time in which they imagine it to.be in their power to contribute to the increase of society.; they deem a single man, arrived at the years of maturity, a scandal to his species and, as: no body will take a woman to wife. without a portion, nothing is commoner than to see. a collection made to portion off the poorer sort of girls They keep their weddings for four or five. days, feasting and making merry; but not using firing liquors and before the door of the house is erected a triumphal arch of. fig-tree and pomegranate branches, intermingled with flowers. The bride's tailor bracelet is put round the neck of the bridegroom: and on the coast of Coromandel, when he dies, this tali is burned with him. If a girl hap pens to have her monthly courses before he is mar sied, she hands but a bad chance of having a hus band; for if it. is discovered, no body will ask her. the question. Tho' many of the Bramins-profefs Christianity, they till retain several marks of idolatry, such as. never feeding on any thing that has been animated. They are very moral and sober, civil, industrious, and obliging; they drink. nothing. strong, eat but little at a time, bathe twice a-day, are much ad tiled to venery, and great enemies to incest; yet such is their respect for their. own generation, that they will wed nieces and'nephews sooner than seek a wife in another family: most of them are astronomers acquainted with the motions of the flars,and
and planets, and capable of. calculating eclipses, Some of them are of opinion, that all souls were created in the beginning, and given in their turns to animate their respective bodies; nor do they re sea the doctrine of the transmigration of souls, This is an opinion which strongly prevails almost over all parts of India as well as here the tribe of Phidias used formerly to attend the service of the king, but now they are hewers of wood, drawers of water, and bearers of burthens to the Dutch. They are very firing, and good litter-carriers; but in this occupation they are very proud, for they would not at any rate be hired to carry any but the best people; The Paruas are pretty give, and speak most of them Portuguese; they are excellent divers, but do-not inhabit in such numbers on the island-of Ceylon, as about Tute- corn and other parts of the continent the word Chitty signifies a merchant, and there is a tribe bearing this name, which deals much in linen and handicraft trades; the people of this tribe are very crafty, and the father educates his son in his own business; thus weaving, building, working the sod, &c. are hereditary occupations. Near the banks of the salt-river, and the seashore of Jafna- putnam live the Cares, who are fishermen; as are also those of the tribe of Mokkuas.,The nastiest among all there people, and ap poaching nearest the Hottentots, are the Callous, who are very black, enslaves to the Bellales, for whom tey dig the ground, water the trees, ma nage the cattle, and do other menial offices. They are o very dirty in themselves, that they may be traced by their smell like a fox. The Paruas are not behind them in filthiness or menial employ ments: they feed on rats and mice, carry out dung, and are certainly the most despicable race of people in the wild. Perhaps no people on earth retreated
treated so haughtily as the lower sort are by their Superiors, to whom they are obliged in the streets to pay the profoundest reverence: the women are; alo kept in great subjection, not being permitted to' sit at table with their huiliands None of all there tribes will eat cows flesh, deeming the creature, as the Egyptians formerly did, acred. For a general character of them, it may be said, that they are abstemious in their eating, not fond of liquor, naturally ingenious,: and blessed with. strong memories; they are clean in their apparel,. except the two tribes particularly stigmatized; not inclined to be quarrelsome, but apt to be abusive; they are superstitious with respect to omens, and! much inclined to adultery and fornication, Here are courts of judicature where pleading is allowed, and advocates are often found here, as well as in England, making long speeches to little purpose. Their physicians, knowing little of physic or anatomy, give fresh herbs of. a certain com position for a purge, and allay the force of it, if it. prove too strong, by clapping a poultice of pepper steeped in water to the navel, which is good against a looseness and bellyach ,They have barbers, who are not only expert at: Shaving the head and face, but are also good at pa ring the toe-nails and cleansing the ears; they carry with them small mirrors, and their razors are thicker on the back than ours, Their weavers fit to work on the ground, where in there is a hole dug for their feet. Their paint hers have such an art in gaining callicoes that the colours will never wash out; but those of Mafulipa- tan are much brighter. They have artists who ma nicest great taste in their working upon gold, silver,. ivory, or ebony; and few places in Europe have better carpenters, smiths, or bricklayers, tho' their wages are hardly more transfix pence per day.,There,6
There is a very stately pagode at Trinquenamalei. which serves as a land-markto the hips; and here also is the largest and molt commodious harbour in. the whole island of Ceylon; it was several times relinquished during the disputes in India between the Dutch and English, and the fortifications as often repaired; though atone time the Hollanders. who garrisoned the place under command of Peter Wash, were attacked by. a frenzy that urged many of them to leap into the sea, where they were drowned, and on their being opened, there appear. ed certain little maggots infesting the coats of the brain, produced as was thought by fatigue, heat, and eating salt meat, as well as by the cold damp fogs that generally fell after night-fall. To these worms was attributed this fatal disorder. Of Batte. cato, Columbo, and some other important places in this island we hall find an opportunity of speaking hereafter, the present meets being dedicated tota, more general subjects AP;
C H A P. III. Superb pagodas. of Ceylon : orange opinion of the na times with rejpe to one of th finest of the i~and .: an account of Adam's. Peak, and the measurement of his foot; extraordinary honours paid to it: the Bramins of Ceylon more particularly described: their d es, manner of living, and public processions: a. general character of the heathen inhabitants of this stand, called Cingalefe:.jfameJlrange customs peculiar to them: the different dares of the people, the various produce of the inland, and an account of the manner of preparing cinnamon ''0 island abounds more with pagodas, and: j those generally very splendid than Ceylon:. there is one particularly at Vintage, one hundred. and thirty feet in circumference at the foundation - it is very high, the top being crowned with a gilt pyramid, which may be discerned at a vail distance; within it stands an idol, representing a man with a drawn sword in his hand, his arm being upraised as. if going to strike: to this the Cingalefe pay adora tion, and are firmly persuaded that this world will be near an end when this temple decays. It is common to meet on the roads little brick houefs, in which are fixed elephant-heads, which they alo worship, praying to them for wisdom ;, their idols are generally adorned with garlands of flowers, particularly one, being the figure of a man,. ;at leas six yards high, cut out of a rock which lies. near Belligamme, not far from which is the mountain supposed to be the highest in India, called Adam's Peak, whereon, they pretend to tell you: Adam was created.,They,
They shew a mark here, shaped like a man's fool a yard and a half long, three quarters broad, ant one quarter deep, which they tell you was impress, here by him when he went thence to heaven, a we before observed: it is surrounded with silver and the poor deluded people believe that a drop water gathered from it, serves as an expiation so al their sins; near it finds a magnificent-temple into which no body enters without carrying ten o a dozen lighted candles, or more, according t, their abilities: when they depart, they carry with them one of this water in bamboo canes, for th, use of such of their friends as have no opportunity' of going thither in person the king and all his-court make a pilgrimage hither once a-year; and having used the water, ant paid their devotions, they conclude the night will feasting and dancing. The priests preserve a golden plate, of the length and breadth of the ane foot whereon are engraved sixty-eight emblematical si gules, which formerly, say they, were to be seer upon the said foot, but vanished as Soon as they wen copied. This mountain is almost inaccessible, and those who adventure to climb it are assisted by iron spikes, and chains fastened therein for that purpose the Bramins, who are very regular and abstemious livers, have many convents scattered thro' the island; their heads are shaven, and they have yellow habits; they always carry beads in their hands, and mutter prayers ; but never appear in the streets with out an umbrella. In different niches about their chapels they place the images of such people, either men or women's they are pleased to say, have led hly lives: and before them they place wax ta pers and-lamps, held by boys neatly carved. They have certain hours of prayers lIke the popish friars ad are as each in observing them.,There
There are certain public days in which the ab bot of each convent goes through the streets in pro cession, in great pomp, being mounted on an elephant sumptuously caparisoned, with an umbrella over his head, and preceded by horns, trumpets, tabors, and such other musical instruments ; before him dance several maidens of quality, naked to the middle, their heads, ears, and arms ornamented with bracelets of gold and jewels, and their petticoats of different colours. We cannot say however that the Cingalefe, for so are the pagan inhabitants of Ceylon in general called, are very obstinate or averse to rational con vision, since numbers of them have been, by dint of argument, converted to Christianity. They are commonly ready-witted, excellent artisans, and good soldiers, careful observers of order, and not easily intimidated; their converse with the Europeans has sharpened their intellect very much; for which reason they are not to be despised, nor yet should hey be much relied upon: they are well fitted for war, and of special service in a route, marching one by one, because of the narrow defiles abounding in he country, being armed-with half-pikes, and using small hill drum that may be heard among the ills at three leagues distance. If a husband goes a long journey, it is usual for im to desire his brother to hare the nuptial bed bring his absence; nor is it unusual for a woman complain if not duly attended in such circum dances, for they do not think that there is any thing criminal in such an incestuous commerce. Our au lor tells us, that he knew a woman loudly com han, that a brother to whose care her husband omitted her, did not pay sufficient attention to. he nuptial duty. The Cingalefe have long ears, acted with rings and jewels; they are not unlike,IMala.bars; the common people go naked, with.,only
only their privities covered with a piece of calico. Among the better sort the men wear alight linn or woollen wei, and a piece of linen wrapped round their navels, and coming between their legs, with a red cap on their heads, which they efitem as a particular ornament, calling it the rock-cap. At their sides they carry swords or scimitar, the hilts of which are curiously wrought in gold, silver, or ivory the women adorn their fingers and toes with gold and silver rings; and on their necks are neck. laces of the same metals. Instead of a head-dress they plat their hair, and their breasts are quite uncovered ; they are most of them well proportions ed and handsomely limbed. They marry as many-wives as they can maintain, boast much of their families and high blood, and are vastly added to idleness, insolence, and pleasure: It has been hi thereto found impossible to dissuade them from mar dying girls of ten or eleven years old; they say they do it to be sure of having a virgins They are very neat in their houses and household-furniture, using the fig-tree leaf instead of table-cloths and trenchers; their spoons are made of cocoa nut-fell, and their drinking-vessels are of earth, with pipes like tea-pots through which they suck the liquor, Their current coins are the fiver larynx, worth about ten-pence; the fanym, worth five-pence; and the pagode, valued at six Dutch gilders; two five fanyms at five-pence each making a laryn.,This island produces ripe grapes almost all the year, it abounds with' far-canes, fig and nul berry-trees, whereon is generated a good deal 0 ilk; also ginger, pepper, cardamum, tobacco, and the wild palm; the calabash, cotton, and areca tree, with divers sorts of mangos, melons, onions, and garlic. The Dutch have planted asparagus carrots,. cabbage, and many other sorts of Eur',pet
i~~~~~~~~-: 1Â·Â· 1~~~1. ,,o s '1,
yean vegetables, which thrive here to admiration. But Ceylon is more particularly happy in producing superfine cinnamon, which, is scarcely found in any other part of the habitable world. This valu able spice is :good against many disorders, being a strengthener of the bowels and stomach, a great astringent, and an excellent cephalic; it affords an oil which is efficacious in divers extemporaneous cases; but being extremely dear, the genuine sort is not very common in Europe: it is pressed from the cinnamon fruit, but of late the chemists in England have found a way of distilling an oil from the common cinnamon, which answers the same end in *medicinal cases, and has been found nearly of equal influence. The fruit of this tree is yellowish, and it rises out of a white blossom, the scent of which is very pleasing; the leaves resemble those of the lemon tree, but they are not quite so large. The first bark being removed with a crooked knife, the rind lying beneath it is cut first round, then in length, and afterwards left to dry in the fun, where it shrinks into those small rolls which we see in Europe. When the tree is thus tripped it perishes; but from the fruit being implanted, others arise; the wood is white, and used by the inhabitants for building. The cinnamon-trees grow singly, scattered among other woods, and never in groups; neither is it to be found in every part of the island, there being no trace of it in Jafnapatnam, nor in the isle of Manner. From the cinnamon wood, yet green, there is an agreeable wholsome water distilled, and this wood thrown into the fire sends forth a nose odoriferous smell: the natives also make several pretty pieces of furniture out of it, but particularly cabinets, which are held in one estimation. It is to be remarked, that tho' physicians and naturalifis,agree
agree that cinnamon is hot, yet from its root may be drawn a water endued with the scent of all the qualities of camphire.,There are three species of cinnamon in the Earl. Indies; the first and finest called by the Portuguese canes-fino is that which is taken from the young, or at least the middle-aged tree; canel-groffo is the second or coarser sort, stripped from an old tree; and the laRs, which,is scarcely of any value, though some of the natives pretend to affirm it might be meliorated, is called canes de mato, or wild cinna. mon, and some of it is found on the Malabar coast, but it is not fit for use.,Snake-wood which is in. great seem among the Indians, and used as a specific in many disorders, is found in several parts of the island of Ceylon; it is hard, bitterly, and of a bright yellow colour; the powder of this wood is rubbed over the body to prevent the progress of the itch; and one ounce of it taken in wine or water is serviceable in colic, fevers, &c. but more particularly against the bite of a serpent, with several sorts of which Ceylon abounds. Its virtues in this case were first disco. vexed by a little animal, called cull-quill or quirpele by the Portuguese, who keep them to hunt rats and mice; it is about the size of a common ferret, and has a natural antipathy to the fer pent with which whenever it meets, it engages, and if-flung, secured by eating snake-wood. Marcellus de Bofchohouwer, a man of some consequence in this place, and of a very curious disposition, relates that he has been often witness to their battles, and once in particular he saw a very long combat between a shake and one of these creatures, which at last growing faint, re. tired to cure itself by the snake-wood, and return. ed to the sight after half an hour's absence, whenit found its antagonist expired. The root of this tree,,calle
called by the'Cingalefe, nalyelli, is also said to-pos fess 'many singular virtues. Tamarind trees are found to thrive well here; the fruit is a cooler, and prescribed against scorbutic and dropsical disorders: as also does the mangrove, the branches of which when grown to their proper height, turn down andktake root in the ground, thus in a short time one tree will cover a large that of land: the sensitive plant'alfo grows here, which re tires from the touch of yur hand, or of any thing else, wherewith you offer to approach it. Ceylon also abounds with excellent medicinal herbs, the use whereof practice, the best inferior, has taught to those among them that praise physic and surgery.,C H A P. IV. 7e elephants of Ceylon preferable to all others of their sod and disorders: j]eviral different ways of catching them: the great caution of this animal: a description of it and its various virtues: two or three remarkable Scries concerning it: a description of the tiger andjackall. A MONG the quadrupeds or four-footed beasts,of Ceylon, the elephant claims the foremost place, as it is not only the largest beast in the world, but those particularly that are natives of this island are allowed to be so far superior to those of any other part of India, that the Cingalefe tell you, they are worshipped for their excellence by all others Â°f their own species. They feed on green herbs, !nd leaves of the fig, cocoa, and wild palm; they sometimes take a liking to areca, and the sugar cane; and at a certain season of the year there issues an oil from the head of those which are old, a flux,that
that often makes them mad; and it is then agree chance if their guides do not fall a sacrifice to their fury. There are-such numbers of there animals all over the island, that it is not safe for-any body to travel without some attendance and-drums, &c, wherewith to frighten them: they are most to b feared, when the evening begins to set in, time-at which they sally out in search of prey; and if you chance to be carried by your littered in their way, you have but a bad chance for your life; for these dastards will quit the litter and take to their-heels: some instances have been known, in which these animals have passed the litter of a traveller thus-abandoned, without doing it any harm; but this not common. The young elephants are sometimes taken by following the tracks of the old ones; but the commonest way of catching them, is by cutting a long alley through some part of the wood in which they inhabit, and planting it with flakes; here deep pits are dug, which being covered lightlyover with hurdles and earth, the elephant is sought out, and by hallooing about him, beating drums, and toiling wild-fire in his way, hurried into this path; where falling into one of the snares, the hunters bind his feet with ropes and chains, and o secure him. Some of them are so very cunning that they are not to be caught thus, but examine carefully with their trunks, every shep they take, and thesis there lies a hole in their way, they are sure to dis. cover it.,When they have secured a wild one, they yoke it between-two tame ones, and set six men to at. tend it, holding lighted torches affixed to the ends of half pikes.ijfor the elephants are particularly fearful of fire, and these proffer it food, being either boiled rice and hay, or brown sugar; if it is stubborn and refuses it, the tame ones beat it,vitI
with their trunks till they teach it obedience. It is aid the elephant never meddles with the female after being tamed, though he is sometimes seized with a dutiful sit, in which he does much mischief. When the female elephant inclines to procreate, she makes a bed of herbs and weeds four or five feet above the ground, and with a cry peculiar to herself invites the male; in Ceylon they also rome times take the male by putting a tame female in his way.,It is hard to determine the precise age of the elephant in general, but it is thought he will love to or three hundred years: the colour of its body, which is heavy and gross with little beauty. about it, is dark, for the white elephant is very scarce; their eyes are small like those of a pig, and behind their ears, which lie very close, there is a small tender skin, a wound wherein is mortal; as is a deep wound in his trunk, which is firing, tough, and hollow, reaching to the ground, and opening and hutting by the help of little carbuncles so nicely, that he can take up therewith a pin, or a grain of millet; through this he conveys to his mouth all that he eats or drinks: in each corner of his over jw. is a tooth, which in the male is six r seven feet long, but not above one foot in the male; and between these grows his trunk. They are naturally extremely wild, and there ore to be taken only by hunting; the lots of li erty has been known to influence an elephant so to throw him into a deep melancholy, wherein e has pined for want o sustenance, which he od by ino means be prevailed upon ao take, until relieved by music, whereby his a piety was dissipated and the beast revived. There are many remarkable stories told of the,tacirv and fidelity of the elephant, nor is it lets seemed for its courage in war, and its very great VOL. V. E docility.
docility. At the sight of blood, for which they have a firing abhorrence, and at the sound of the trumpet, the disciplined elephants rush for. ward in battle, with such force and rapidity, aston spread terror and devastation every where around them. The best horses fly at their approach, nor can the most experienced rider compel them to sustain the onset. With one elephant Cedar pro cured a most remarkable victory over the Gauls: the Syrians and Persians profited by the use of them in war, and from these did the Romans derive the knowledge of their abilities; of which they made great advantage. I: is the nature of the elephant to turn upon his masters if once repulsed; nor is there any possibility of making him return to the charge the mildness of their disposition is very re. markable, for in passing through a flock of sheep, they set them gently aside with their trunks, that they may not trample upon them. It has been known that they have been let loose upon crimni nails for their destruction, when instead of assailing the aims who were tied for that purpose to pods, they turned their rage against those who spurred them on; nor would they be made the instruments of cruelty. But with all his meekness, we fid him endowed sometimes with an implacable spoil of revenge.,An instance of which is related by Navaretta, il the sixth book of his history of China, who tells, that in 1658, when he was at Macassar, he saw a elephant belonging to the king pass very quiet through the streets with his driver upon-his back but, coming by chance to a place where cocoa-nu were exposed to sale, snatched one from a far parcel with his trunk, wherewith he beat his der about the head, till he dropped lifeless tot ground ; an infancy of cruelty, the motive of whose
some people upon inquiry found, was the same man's having, a few days before, thrown a nut of pretty large size at the head of the elephant, in order to.break it; hence arose the animal's resent, ment, the effets of which were so very melancholy Notwithstanding their common mild temper an elephant in rutting time is quite mad, and so mischievous that it kills every creature that falls in its way; and upon growing cool, will go near fretting itself to death, for having perhaps defrayed some animal, for whom it had an as fei&ion.,Of the modesty of the elephant there have been several examples and that in the time of Titus Vespasian, there was one which threw a garment over his mistress and' her-lover when mutually embracing, as if he thereby would have reminded them of their want of decency and reserve, was a fat attested by all Rome. It is said that the new mistress of an Indian, who had murdered his-ife, was led by an elephant to the place where the body lay; which having uncovered with his trunk, and pointed out the marks of violence, thereby hew ing her the danger she was in, and the fate he might expect, when her paramour was. weary of her; he interred the corpse, and let the woman depart.,All over India, but in China more especially, almost every part of this animal is used in medicine Broth made of its flesh is given to flop'a looseness, the flesh burned prevents an overflow of urine, the gall is healing to the:eyes, and removes theinconveniencies of a bad breath. The humour of the eye mixed with breast-high is said to be an excellent ophthalmic; the bone lying at the pit of the stomach when powdered is a fine stomachic; and a poultice of the kin burned to ashes, and mixed with oil, is a noble cure for a green wounds 2 They
They measure the elephant from the nail on one of his forefeet to the top of his shoulders, and for every cubit of his height, the largest not being more than nine cubits, or thirteen feet and a half high, the common price amounts to one hundred pounds Englifi money; but the Ceylon elephant is worth four times as much the female carries her young from sixteen to eighteen months, and when jus yeaned it is as large as a sizeable calf; they are generally fifty nay sixty years before they come to their full growth, when they will carry fourteen people, as is well known in Cochin China, where the towers on their backs are used instead of coaches: their pace being very equal, and as shift as a horse at full trot. The teeth which the elephant sheds spontaneously in the woods, is reckoned the worse sort of ivory; the best is taken from the mouth of the bea as soon as he is killed, and there is a species be. tween both, yielded by the elephant who dies a na tural death.,It is certain that no animal appears to a so nearly to man, upon the principles of reason, as the elephant. That they tread more softly and much lighter than a horse, is surprizing but true; fortin passing over a marsh, they hardly give any motion to the surface, xlhile a horse in the same path hall make it tremble all around very perceptibly. When the elephant goes to drink, he firs allthe dirt from the bottom of the water, that he ma have therewith gravel and small tones, which serve to digest his food, as is the case of geese, ducks, &c. for he is much sliced with cholic and india gefiion.,The words of Ceylon abound with tygers as we as elephants the tyger is a creature peculiar to the India for though there is a smaller sized animal found i,Amerir
America something resembling this bea , it doubtful whether it be of the same species. The tyger is larger than a leopard; its skin, which is a valuable fur, used for horse-furniture, bedding, lining cloaths, and planking, is full of yellow spots fur rounded with black hair, which is short and of the most beautiful gloss: their eyes are very bright, and darting a prodigious lustre, their necks short and strong, and their claws and teeth prodigiously harp; they are exceedingly stout and very swift. There are three sorts of them, the are of which is called the tyger royal; and its filins, which have been known to be six feet long, are used as coverts for beds. The second and most common sort is about the size of a calf, give, light, and excessively cruel. The third and last' species is something larger than a mountain-cat, extremely mischievous, and its howl approaching near to the lowing of a calf, is easily frightful. Lions never prey on any thing till it is dead, tygers always assail that which is living, tearing it into pieces, but never meddle with any thing that is lifeless; as the carcase of a sheep or of a horse. If by any chance they get among a flock of keep, the havock they make is almost incredible; for then they seldom eat, but glut themselves with sucking the blood so that a tyger, a tigress, and two young whelps have been known to destroy above one hundred sleep in one night's time. In a close country they lurk behind the hedges, and spring upon a man, or any other creature that palls by, seizing him by the middle, and carrying' him tother haunts, where they tear him to pieces and devour him. Those who have eat of it, esteem the flesh to be as delicate, nay rather better fla poured than veal, particularly when young It is said that dogs and tygers engender; Diodorus Si cultus affirms that a certain Indian king presented 3 some
some of this heterogeneous brood to-Alexander the Great, which was exceeding strong and fierce, be. ing besides endowed with all the docility of a dog; four of them overpowering a lion with ease. It is asserted by one writers, but with what truths will not venture to affirm, that a tyger meeting a black and a white man together, will pass the lat. ter unnoticed, and tear the former to pieces; be. cause it is a prey perhaps to which they are more accustomed. They are often seized upon by the huntsmen in this manner; the boldest of the com any finds out where there is a young litter, with which in the absence of the dam, he runs away, when she returns and rises the young, such is her quick scent, that she on traces the course of the huntsman; but he flops her progress by dropping one of the whelps, which he immediately takes care to secure, by-carrying off to her litter, and by this piece of cunning the huntsman has time to get safely off with the rest walter Schouten, a Dutch writer of great vera. city, assures us, that the tyger seizes-upon and bears off a strong man with as much ease as a cat does a mouse. He leaps upon and slicks his fore paws into the boulders, then strikes his teeth through the ribs; and the attack and destruction of a victim are scarcely to be distinguished as separable this island has also bears in it, and there are plenty of horses, which were first imported by the Portuguese, and have multiplied considerably to gather with cows, bulls, elks, keep, flags, goats, boars both wild and tame, hares, partridges, pea cocks, and buffaloes, of which hundreds may be seen feeding in one flock; in Europe, these beasts, which are about the size of an ox, are used to draw in the plough and other carriages, but being a little unruly, an iron ring is fattened to their nose, that they may be the more easily guided.,The
The jackall is a species of animal, that gather in herds by the road-fide-towards the-fall of night, where they .make a most inharmonious and intimidating noise, nor do they scruple then attacking such people as are unfortunate enough to pass near them; human flesh they are very fond of, and so greedy after it, that they tear the dead bodies out of the graves, for which reform a great tone cover ing the whole surface is generally laid over a' new made grave to prevent their depredations; 'they are hunted with grey hounds, 'but not often taken, for by scattering their urine, they impregnate the sod over which they pass with feints so strong and unsavoury, that the hounds cannot endure it. The physicians of Ceylon prescribe the flesh of the jackall as efficacious in a consumption, and succeed tolerably well. The jackall is called, by the people of Malabar, adiviis. It resembles a fox in make, and the tail is exaEly the same. Our au thor saw one leopard here, but never met the least sign of the rhinoceros,; 4 CHAP.
CHAP. V. Of the several minds of birds peculiar to the ijand,C3-,: its :njeiis and various sorts of fiJ: ti orcco ::.i dfr'tred: f serpents of surprising bg. r.js ; ti heir familiarity: several decent methods-cf c i.ng their bite : uprising boldness Jca Dutch j' liar of amb,-rgreafe, its nature and alive: a revoej elf with pearl-fishery f Ceyjlo : an acoz,,t f ite tmannr in wk.ic . thea semen get coral f its properties andfpecies. r Her ERE is a val variety of birds in Ceylon, J some of which are peculiar to the country; among these are the minhotos, a. great enemy to poultry, an owl whose scream is of a most hideous nature, and a certain bird the neff of which hangs from the branches of the trees in the manner of a hammock. Among their song birds, are the nightingale and the iai- they have also plenty of lea-gu s, water-snipes, paroquet of the nos beautiful colour; tithes, pigeons, partridges, bats, swallows, peacocks, geese, herons, wild and tame ducks; nor are they without beef, glow-worn, gnats ard Locusts. I: the day inde the tops of the houses 1.\arnm with crows, which retire with the evening; in squadrons to the woods; they are so extremely cunning that there is no hooting any 4r them, except from an ambuscade; and if one of them happen. to be brought down, the rest sing his d:r e with the rr.oft grating croak that can be imagine dam nng the sis of Ceylon, we find plaice, crabs, pike, kin-Â£fhes, fail fishes, craw-fifth, haddock, sharks, foes, icals, sisters, shrimps, ,
cacao, orator, bomtos, sardis, cr- quacks, &c. and among its amphibious animals are the crocodile and sea porcupine. The.porcupinre is known also by the name of the sea-hog; its food when shore is herbs growing near the water-side; the teeth of the porcupine are very sharp, and the flesh is wholsome eating; the females have breasts with milk in them the crocodile or alligator is an amphibious ani mal of the lizard kind in Ceylon they seldom e- need the length of eighteen feet, though in other parts of India they have been found thirty feet long;. they have four feet with crooked claws, and are only vulnerable under the belly and in the eyes, the skin being covered with scales that are musket proof:. as they have no joint in the back-bone, consequently cannot turn very quickly; a man who is aware of them, may easily escape by running be hind them.,Out of its head, say rome naturalis, may be taken a stone that is excellent, when powdered, against the gravel, as are also the bones of the shark. The teeth of the crocodile are firing and. sharp, hutting into each other it moves only the upper jaw, and has no tongue; it is said to yield a kind of musk, and it communicates a perfumed scent to the place where it lurks: it is extraordinary subtle, and manifest great cunning in wait ing for its prey; for it often conceals itself in the: reeds close to the water-side, where people either come to wash; or else fill their vessels, and sudden ly seizing them by the. hand or foot, drags them into the water, where it devours them. It is a re markable cowardly creature, as well as extremely crue ; for the elephant has been often observed to, bathe with impunity close to the haunt of the crocodile which it is supposed to be intimidated from. assailing by its enormous size. It often fwitns ones 5, the
the surface of the water, so folded within itself that it may easily be mistaken for a log of wood, till the approach of prey, on which it springs swiftly as an arrow out of a bow.,The flesh of the young crocodile is a great dainty among the Chinese, and from the body is taken a-white fat that is said to be good against fettled humours of the body. If the fens or ponds that they frequent, chance to dry up, they digholes in the ground, wherein they live till the water returns ceylon is much infested with serpents of many different sorts, and those that are of an amphibious nature are particularly large, being from eight to ten yards long and five yards round, with. throats sufficiently capacious to swallow a flag whole; they are killed by the natives on the shore as they sheep, and their flesh is esteemed good eating. We are told by several writers, that these serpents will vim a long time round a hip in expectation some of the men coming down to walh.,The rat-catching serpent is very large, but not at all venomous, and is generally found on thetis of houses. There is great danger in the cobras; and when our author was at Ceylon they killed several people; however, the patient may be cured by a timely application of the serpent tone, which we find after a very strip search to be a comm pound of certain herbs burned to ashes, mixed with a particular sort of earth ; of this is formed a kind of pate, which made up into a lump of the flare and Size of a pigeon's egg, is left to dry into a hard constituency, which pases for a stone, the flory which we have mentioned before of its dropping from the head of a serpent being found on examination entire. lv fabulous. The place that happens to be bit by the trent nut be pricked with a pin till the blood comes, on which the stone must be instantly applied, which adheres closely till itattracs all the venom, another
then it falls off; but if it be not strait put into a cup either cow's or breast-milk, in which it may discharge the poison it had sucked, it assuredly bursts; it communicates its virulency in an' ugly green colour to the liquor wherein it is immersed. A Dutch surgeon at Ceylon, by name Albert Van Lamburgen, was in the year 666 affected with blindness, arising from the sling of-a serpent, which he recovered from shortly after, tho' by what means I cannot tell. A man working on the top of a church was about the same time 'flung to death by the attack of a serpent that lay covered under. some leaves. Baldaeus says he once saw two ser tents twisted together sporting under the same church-wall, which were both cut to pieces by a soldier, and so very familiar were they in his time, that in rainy weather they traversed all'parts of the house without fear, pain over the beds, and even touching people with their tails as they went by, without being in the least intimidated. The idolaters of this island pay them divine honours, nor will they at any rate permit them to be killed, but feed them that they hould do them no harm, and call them after their children and servants, so that almost every house has a domestic brood of serpents. Those who are bitten by a serpent and cannot pro curate pietro de cobra, or ferpent-flone, readily, may chance to find benefit by holding a lighted coal near the part affected, which draws out the venom by degrees, without much inconveniency to the patient, and as fast as one coal cools, during the process, another hot one is to be applied; but the part affixed. is first to be bound all round as tight as possible in a lump, to prevent the inferior from spreading. It is nor amiss for those who go to the East-indies to carry with them mithridate, balsam of Peru, theriac, orvietan, rue, exordium, ange-,E 6 lima,
lima, and other cordials and antidotes; cooling diet and constant bathing are also necessary, but bleed. ing and purging are dangerous; fasting spittle ap. plied to the wound, the peel of a lemon or citron, juif picked from the trees, are counted good re. medias in these cases; also a poultice of the ser. pent's head that communicated the infection is deemed salutary there is a sort of mountebanks not only in Ceylon, but in many other parts of the Ears-Indies, who make a trade of taming serpents, which they pretend to do by certain forms of incantation, and they carry them about by way of show, making them stand an end and dance to the sound of their uncouth songs. In Bales's time there was a soldier in garrison at Jafnapatnam, a native of High Germany, who was distinguished by the names the serpent-catcher, and this man being went for by the governor of Coromandel, to take one of the serpents called by the Portuguese cobra, came ac accordingly, and holding his hat before his face with one hand, with the other laid hold of the serpent without receiving the least damage, and put it into his knapsack; he used afterwards to carry it about with him as a pet, and even to sleep near it: he would by no means reveal whence he derived hit power; all he would acknowledge was, that he carried about him the head and heart of a ser. pent, which in some measure contributed to it, and as for the rest, there was in it nothing super. natural. This island abounds with insects, swell as serpents, such as the mille pedes, which are often known to be six or seven inches long ; spiders that are very large, scorpions, frogs, tortoises, and toads the ue of crystal is not known here. Ths commodities, by the face of which the Portuguese made moi profit, where all kinds of coloured fiik,',velvets)
velvets, and stuffs, red caps, painted calicoes, vessels of porcelain, opium, china-root, hampshire, must, sandal-wood, glass-bottles, gilt looking glasses, brimstone, salt-petre, tin, lead and copper. Ceylon has also as great variety and as much plenty of corn as any other part of the world; for it has not only five kinds of rice that ripen one after another, but also eight other sorts of grain, whence they ex trap either oil or bread.,Its lore also abounds with ambergrease; te generation of which cannot be precisely determined nor whence it comes; it is wasted to land by the swell, and is commonly found after stormy weather in round lumps of a bluish white colour, by people who go in search of it by moonshine, mounted upon camels trained to the business, and these bend down when they come near a piece of ambergrease, that their riders may pick it up: the white and black ambergrease, for there are pieces of it that have both these colours, are not near so valuable as the other, which is called oftentimes foxed-amber, because the fox swallows and throws it up again without much alteration, except im pairing, though but a little, the scent of it. Its real goodness is known by laying rome of it on a very hot knife, when it will not only melt and run like wax, but entirely evaporate, leaving not the slightest dregs behind. Mr. Rochford, in hrs Natural History of the American islands says, that ambergrease, when first cast on lore, shells like ruby bacon, and that it attract birds of prey; the marks of a bird's bill is often found in it, and is one of the signs of its goodness. It is thought by some to be a vegetable, growing at the bottom of the sea, and that it is forced thence by tempests. There are many other various opinions concerning it; but it is pretty certain, that it was not known to Hip socrates, Diofcorides, or Galen.,X There
There is a fish of the whale-kind named Sal, which swallows the ambergrease, as it swims in large pieces on the surface of the water; which, not being able to digest, kills him; when those whore accustomed to thinking of silvery perceive the car case floating on the water, they go out in their boats, and fastening their harpoons to the body, draw it ashore, where they split it down the back, and take out the ambergrease; that which is found about the creature's belly, having con traced a disagreeable scent, is thereby rendered good for nothing. The bones of this fish are sold by the druggists of Bagdad and Afford at a good rate; of the back-bone are made stools, and some part of the ribs are used in the structure of their houses by many. Indians.,The pearl-fishery of Ceylon is a very profitable commerce. There are three other pearl-fisheries, besides what is on this coast; the first in the Persian gulph; the second opposite to it, at Catifa on the coast of Arabia Felix the third is at Ja. pan: but it is allowed, that the pearls of Ceylon are of the finest water, consequently, though small, they are in proportion more valuable than any others; the shall of the sister which produces them is called mother-of-pearl, it has a fine lustre, and it is used in snuff-boxes, cabinets, &c. The people who follow the trade of fishing for pearl are, what with the-art of the Dutch and the tyran ny of their prince, kept very poor, there being a Brahman employed by the Dutch generally ready to buy up the treasure as it is found.,In order to carry the fishermen quicker to the 'bottom, they have a large weight affixed either to the foot or to the side; in the right hand they have a harp iron to be used in removing the sisters from the rocks, and if there is not great care and caution exerted in going about it, if the filter prove,large
large it will adhere so strongly to its bed as to soil the poor fishermen's belt endeavours; on the left arm, and sometimes round the neck is hung a bas ket into which the fish is put when caught; about the left armis also a cord, by pulling which they give notice to those in the vessel from which they descended that they want to be brought up. The hazard these poor people run is very great, not only from the water-serpent and crocodile, but also from many other ravenous monsters that de light in human blood. It is not uncommon for some people who have no right to a rich spot fishery to throw a certain drug into the water all round, which they know the oifler has a dislike to, and which on scenting it, goes to another part of the coast, where they follow and fish for it, in this,man- ner becoming rich there have been of late days many pearl-fisheries established in the Weft-Indies; but the oriental pearl remains fill unrivaled coral is also a production of the sea about Ceylon, which is a commodity more valuable in other parts of the world than in Europe; in Japan particularly it may be sold to considerable advantage and a fair piece, that is of a good size, with out any fault, will bring more money than a con actionable European would think of aking for it. The naturalists agree that coral is a sea-plant, which grows at the bottom, and often sprouts out into branches of five or six feet in height. There have been found branches of it variegated with red, black, white, and other colours, and from a careful observation of its growth, it has been proved to pass through many changes of colour un til it is full ripe, when it becomes a most beautiful red.,It is so clogged with dirt, when first taken out of the sea, that before its goodness can be deter-mined,
mined, it must be carefully polished; red and white coral are those that are in most esteem. Co. rat is said to acquire a brighter red in the custody of a man than of a woman; it is said to fade in the possession of a tick person, and the decline of its colour prognosticate the approach of one dis. order. It was thought by the ancients to preserve a house from the thunder-bolt; to protect from evil geniuses, and to be efficacious in slopping blood; it may be discharged of its red colour and changed to a very fine white, by being steeped when pulverised for a day or two in citron juice: its colour, when faded, may be reformed by holding it for force time over a thick smoke, and then covering it a little while with mustard-feed, or rubbing it with soft thread. Coral is not peculiar to the coast about Ceylon: it is found off sicily near Trepan, though this sort is but small and ill coloured ; also on the crafts of Catalonia, Majorca, and Corsica. It is the opinion of some people, that there are whole forests of it in the Red-sea, but that it is not any where to be found in the main ocean, or at forty miles dis. tance from land; for the barques that are employed in this fiery never go farther from lore, and they are so very swift that no galley almost can overtake them. The time of fishing for coral is from the beginning of April to the end ofJuly.' In the nor there parts of the Mogul's dominions, and indeed over all Aha, it is worn by the common people necklaces and bracelets,,C H AP.
CHAP. VI, . 2ntfirf discovery f the iJand of Ceylon; and ilego-d fortune of a Chinese sailor: some farther account of the royal family to the time of the entry of the Portuguese : disputes between Singaae, Adafcn, nd La. mantua: the latter perfidiously betrayed and cruel pit to death : his f/n crowned king by the Ptrtzgurfe infers, and privately murdered by his brother Dans john, who mounts the throne : the death of Singaa Aiafyyn: wonderful difnterfednefs f a priest : Janeiro Kandahar sets up for king, and ruts Don scan, and is assassinated fr soliciting a match with the young empress. Don John again enabled to make Head agaiy/ the Portuguese ; is married to Donna Catharina: his reign, death and character. (ceylon was first discovered by some Chinese t mariners, who chancing to be shipwrecked on the coast, were hospitably entertained by the inhabitants and one of them saying that his king was son of the fun, was chosen by content of the people to be their king, as they thereby not only composed some feuds that had long reigned among them, but rico manifested their refpea to the fun, which they adored, as do the people of Malabar: hence the pre Set race of the kings of Ceylon deduce their origin from, and stile themselves lords of the golden fun. From this foreign king, who files himself the mach-beloved son of the always moving fun, was descended Sankauw Pati Mahadafeyn, who called himself well-beloved lord of the whole island. The ell-beloved conqueror of the lion was one of his descendants: this monarch left two sons, who, as ter a very obstinate and bloody dispute divided the country between them, the kingdom of Candy fa-,lini
ling to the share of the-younger, Angora Adafcyn, the well-beloved king, and the rest of the island devolving upon the other brother, the eve-apple of the country: however, their posterity disagreeing, Raja Singaaaa Adafcyn, a man of great courage and wonderful art, though at first only a barber, made his way to the throne, by imposing himself, as one of the blood-royal, upon the people, and subdued the whole island, having first cut off all the great meanwhile he was wading through blood towards this important point, the Portuguese taking advantage of the intestine divisions, invaded, and made them. selves mailers of the places moll famous for ein. damon in this island, from whence they transported it to Europe in vals quantities, reaping prodigious profits. Raja Singaaaa having seized upon all the tree. sure belonging to the royal family, and having driven the late-emperor into exile, conferred the govern. ment of a very large province upon Vine Lamantia, who had been a favourite of the late emperor, but he used his power to rebel against his mailer, and procure himself to be proclaimed emperor, under the name of deliverer of the empire. After a bloody contest peace was concluded between him and Raja, in consequence whereof finding means to get La mantua, his young son of a year old, by inviting them to court, into his custody, he ordered them to be buried up to the arm-pits in the ground, together with their chief attendants, and round balls osgood to be bowled at them till their brains were dated out when this cruel execution was over, he invade Candy, Lamantia's dominion; the people of which liked the new government very well; and having made the empress his prisoner. he plundered th country, and sold many of the inhabitants si slaves, oppressing those that remained, in themra,t an!
tyrannical manner. This induced them to crave the assistance of the Portuguese, to whom Raja Adafcyn was a professed enemy ;and among whom the two sons of Lamantia had take refuge, and were baptised by the names of Don Philip and Doa John. The two princes were sent to Candy by the Portuguese with a considerable force, where Don Philip, being the eldest, was proclaimed king; which preference of his brother irritating the am bilious Don John against the Portuguese, he took the first opportunity of dispatching his brother by poison, and seizing the throne, forced the Portuguese out of Candy; after which aion he obtained avery signal victory over Raja Adafcyn with but a handful of men; and Adafcyn in his flight, having wilfully thrust a thorn through his foot, would not permit it to be meddled with, but suffered it to mor ify, and his death, according as he wished, was e consequence. It was remarkable, that none of his cruelties in tired him with the slightest remorse, except that f having caused to be burned some priests of allowance for having denied that parricide, of which he had in many instances been guilty, was a genial crime; however, he spared their high priest.: had proposed the same question to the priests of araynoyd ,o, who having represented God as something more merciful than to damn him entirely, ere dismissed with the title of his majesty's friends. few hours before he died having manifested great contrition for the murder of his brother; the high diet absolved him of the crime, but refused to ac kept some very valuable presents offered him in con sequence thereof. This honest man died afterwards It Candy, in the hundred and twentieth year of his ge.,Before
Before the battle in which Raja Adafcyn was routed, he was very melancholy and low-spirited; and, as if foreseeing his approaching fate, was heard to cry out, " Don John is a brave warrior, a throne " will be the reward of his prowess. Where, ' Raja Singaaaaaa Adafcyn, where is thy wonted fortune " that used to be irresistible? why sleeps thy cou. " rage? wherefore slumbers thy ambition? is thy {' greatness fled ? Alas ! alas ! I see the sad reverse ' of prosperity ! and fickle fortune that formerly " led me by the hand, now turns her back, and " leaves me to perish in the hade of adversity! " what has thy once beloved favourite Raja Singaaaaaa " done?",Don John now imagined himself sole monarch of the island, without a competitor, when on a sudden Raja Singaaaaaa Adafcyn's secretary being possessed fall his master's treasures which was very considerable, assumed the title of king by name of Janeiro Wan. dear; and being upon soliciting it, joined by a lare body of Portuguese from Goa, commanded by Pe. dro Copes de Sousa, he attacked Donjon near the city of Lane, and routed him entirely, laugh. tearing a great number of his men, and striking such a panic into the rest, that the whole country sub. mitted to him without opposition, Dollefwagge e. accepted: as for Don John, not being able to all his scattered forces, he retired with scarcely on attendant to the wo:'ds, where he had nothing feed on for sometime, but herbage and wild fruit the Portuguese having, by this success obtain an abfoluteauthority not only over Don John,bt over their allies, resolved. to dispose of the thron of Cevion in favour of Donna Catharina, one often real blood-royal, who was educated at Mandarin the Christian religion, in which the natives of Ces Jon acquiesced, refuting to own the king of Port;
gal as their sovereign lord, a submission to which they were much pressed. Donna Catharina was, in consequence of this resolution, soon after brought to Candy, where the was received by Don Pedro Lopez, and a large body of the people in the most respectful manner, they prostrating themselves be fore her according to the custom-of the country. DonnaCatharina made her entry, which was ex pensively magnificent, in her litter, amidst the loud eft acclamations of the people,' and was in a few days crowned empress with the usual solemnities. About this time several houses were burned down, in different parts of the city, but how, no man could tell; at last it was found out to be done by Don John, who had come hither privately, disguised like a beggar-man, with a view to destroy the town, and who was obliged to get back to his place of refuge, there being twenty thousand crowns reward offered for the taking him dead or alive. The Portuguese now pretty much at ease, and no more perplexed by disputes, began to give a loose to their pride, avarice and insolence, where by they rendered themselves intolerable to the na times of the island, and having refused to allow of a marriage between king Janier Wander, and the cmpres Donna Catharina, though they had solemn ly promised it; the former entered into an association with Don John, who scoured the country at the head of a small part), to drive out these new tafk-maers once again, and divide with him the dominion of the island; but the Portuguese general having intercepted bone letters that passed between .them, caused him to be assassinated with all-is at tenants in his own pretence, having fist disarmed him, by borrowing his sword, under pretence of admiring the handle, which was curiously set with jewels.,It was in vain for them to endeavour justifying this treacherous method of proceeding to the em-express;
press; she, who, though but twelve years old, hac a great deal of good sense, and manifested a very jus discernment, observing, that though he was a train. tor, he ought not to have been basely cut off without legal trial. " Be assured, said the, let yourpreten. " ces for it be ever so plausible, this very sad will " cause your ruin; for no body that hears of your c having thus basely dispatched him who was your c' best friend but will curse you, and fear that the "4 next victim to your remorseless revenge will be " her whom you call empress; but tremble for " the consequences of a fact, which the divine " juice will not fail to avenge." This woman's words had in them the force of an oracle; for they were largely fulfilled when the Dutch forces attacked the Portuguese, and drove them out of Botecalo, Columbo, Gale, Gumbo, and to crown all, out of Jafnapatnam.,These perfidious proceedings were the entire ruin of the Portuguese affairs; for the. Cingalefe being thereby fixed in an irreconcilable hatred against them, sought out Don John, who very rea. daily fell in their way, and on formed under him a considerable army, every member of which was determined to root out their tyrannical foes, who being intimidated by their numbers and prepare. tions, retreated from the city of Candy to the sort of Gancor, and sent toColumbo for relief; theCin. gales, who were close at their heels, took about fifty prisoners, whom they sent back with their notes slit and their ears cut off this boldness so frighted the Portuguese, that they determined to retreat in a body to Walare, setting a l the country behind'them on fire ; be Don John pursued them in spite of all bars, and overtaking, attacked them in four places, obtaining in the end a complete victory, having destroy their best soldiers, possessed himself of a watt booty befit
besides cannon, ammunition, and arms, and made the empress Donna Catharina his prisoner; as also general Lopez, who died in three days after of his wounds, leaving his son to the care of Don John, who, as he had promised, sent him in safety to Columbo.,After this aion he formed all the Portuguese garrisons, putting the soldiers to the sword, and the whole country submitted to his jurisdiction, fe vernal petty princes, who had been engaged in al hance with the foe, coming in with considerable presents, and making their submission. His next shep was to marry Donna Catharina, thereby securing to his own interest the only competitor for the crown that could be feared; after which he built a palace for himself, or rather a citadel, strongly fortified, obliging the captive Portuguese to labour in the work. Don John now enjoyed the throne pretty peaceably; and his defeating a strong army sent against him from Goa, under the command of Geronimo Oviedo, who narrowly escaped from being made captive, confirmed him absolutely in the possession of it.,The Portuguese still keeping their station in Gale, Don John went against it Dorrinico Core, a gallant leader, who having received some affront in the Portuguese service, after cutting off the noses and ears of one monks who had occasioned it, de served; but the Cingalefe forces whch he headed being by some misconduct defeated, he was made prisoner, carried to Columbo, and privately mur tered; a baseness that the king of Carry revenged, by putting to death, without distinction,. all the Portuguese that fell into his hands, one few ex accepted, whom he sent back to Columbo, most miserably mangled, bidding them tell their gene rat, thus did Don John revenge th death of Do minico Core; and thus hereafter would he serve,all
all the Portuguese that should fall into his hands unless such Cihgalefe as were then prisoners at Co ]umbo should be immediately set at liberty's dangerous insurrection in the garrison of that place was the consequence of so miserable a spec. table; and had not the general Oviedo been hid by Come friendly friars in a convent till the storm subsided, he had certainly fallen a victim to the disturbance. The barbarous usage of his brother Domenico, did not hinder Simon Core from revolting to the Portuguese interest, who made him not only governor of a province, but wedded him to a wo. man of distinction among themselves; nor is it un. likely that love for her occasioned his perfidy :be that as it will, he and her son were sure pledges of his fidelity, while he carried on the war against his former master the king of Candy; whom, how. ever, out sentient kindness, as well as from his detestation of treachery, he could not help privately informing of a design set on foot by the Portuguese to assassinate him.,In the court of Don John was a man called Ema. duel Dias, who had been formerly a footboy to ge. neral Lopez, after whose death he chose to slay in Candy, and being a fellow of a good deal of cun. king and subtlety, had raised himself to the rank of a gentleman, and was inveRted with a place of some trust; this was the man fixed upon to visit the city of Columbo, under pretence of beingdiC- satisfied at some neglect hewn him at court, to find out the bottom of the plot concerted against the king. He executed his commission with great address: at Columbo he was received with open arms, for he denounced nothing but vengeance against Don John; the perpetrators of the conspiracy fixed upon him as their principal; there be ing ive of them men of tried courage, who follow ed him to Candy, he having feigned that he was,pardoned
pardoned for his desertion from that place, which pardon he only accepted of with a view, as he said, to promote so glorious an end, as the death of a tyrant; he introduced them to court, where they were made prisoners, for-Don John had previously been acquainted with all their proceedings, and as ter a long captivity put them to a most painful death; nor would one man of a wrong body of troops that had by stolen marches advanced into the neighbour hood, and skulked in an adjacent wood, waiting a concerted signal to be given when the deed should be perpetrated, have escaped, if they.had not.been informed by a deserter of the real fate of the-cafe: however, as their retreat was extremely precipitate, they left behind them one arms and ammunition, with all their baggage. Shortly after this translation, the Dutch went an embassy to the court of Candy, which was received ill a very cordial manner, and dismissed with con miserable presents, having first agreed that the Hot. landers hould assist inscribing the Portuguese out of Gale, &c. to which end, in about seven months as ter, Seal De Weert, a Dutch vice-admiral, arrived pon the coast with seven hips, to view which he invited the king aboard before he proceeded'on his expedition; but his, majesty having.'been apprised hat De Weert intended to keep him and his court prisoners, and to seize on his country instead of as willing him against his enemies, civilly excused him f, under pretence that his presence at.Candy, out rerpeA. to his wife, who was alone,: was immediately necessary; but he promised from thence to march an army by land to support the siege oÂ£.Gle, hie De Weert should attack it by ea. . , Ths refusal of .his invitation nettled De Weert, ho was not quite sober, so that he positively de flared, " If the emperor did not honour, bim with a visit aboard, he would abandon the:enter- VOL. V. F ' prize
prize again ft the Portuguese;" and he observed " That certainly the empress cou'd not be in such " pressing want of a man, as to require instant con. " nubia comfort." A speech, the insolence of which irritated Don John to such a decree, that he abruptly broke off the conference, giving the word to his attendants to make De Weert prisoner; but he refilling, was clove down with a scimitar, by a man who seized him behind by his long hair: most of his attendants perished with him, oneor two only escaping to the sea-side, where plunging into the water, they swam to their hips.,Don John would have been better pleased to have made him prisoner, but as it could not be done, he was satisfied with his being killed; and t6 shew the light in which he regarded the Dutch, he wrote to the surviving commander of the fleet, Vi. brands van Warwick, this short address in Port. guess, " He who drinks wine cannot be good; i God manifests his justice; if you desire peace, " you shall have it; if you desire war, you shall " have it.",This gallant monarch was on after seized with a burning fever, wherein every remedy that it was thought could quench his thirst, was administered ineffectually; and he died in the most violent agony, leaving behind him by his empress one on name Mahaftanne Adafcyn, and two daughters called So ria Mahadafcyn and Nathan Adafcyn. Don Jobs was a tall, well-limbed, black man, of coat speech, and headdress, but very courageous, an a good commander: he had amassed heaps of jew eland treasure; even after having founded man public inns, erected fortifications, and built palace In affairs of government he was very exaac, nev pardoning any flagitious crime, nor neglecting reward such persons as in their different stations ported themselves properly; he had a good head f,politii
Politics, and was a firma observer of his word ; the 'portuguese were a people whom he looked upon with a very jealous eye, for he mortally hated them, and certainly not without reason. He professed him self attached to no particular form of religion ; but allowed every man freely to serve God as he pleased chap. VII. Disturbances after the death of Don john: Donna Catharina takes the regency upon herself, and mar rl; Cenuwieraat, after he had assassinated the prince of Ouve: the Dutch send an embassy to te new king, who grants prodigious advantage: great ri spes? paid to the Dutch ambassador : the kings f C- 'sarum and Padua accused of high treafi : theater beheaded: the death ah the rtfumnpive heir of the empire, not without suspicion of poison : bis bu I hal wry magnificent. Several factions started up, after the demise 7 of king John, with a view each of disposing f the government: the chief of these was supported y the prince of Ouve, who openly aspired at the throne, and Cenuwieraat, who claimed the regent's the kingdom, till his nephew should come of ge, he being brother to the late emperor: but anna Catharina put an end to these commotions, y declaring she intended, by herself, to manage r her children, the throne he possessed; and by,idly frisking off the heads of several of the most opulent opponents of her rule. However, the people of the lowlands, wearied out by the ravages mitted by the prince of Ouve and Cenuwieraat, entered into a confederacy with the Portuguese ainflt her, he having before renounced their prof red alliance, which might have redounded muche 2 to
-to her disadvantage, had she not, in a full assembly cf the general states of the empire, pronounced the proceedings of there princes illegal, themes rebels, and their estates confiscated.,Notwithflanding this sentence, they were bol Shortly after permitted to appear at court, each hay. ing in his head a matrimonial alliance with the em. press; consequently upon his guard against whether's machinations; but at length, the better fortune o Cenuwieraat prevailed, for meeting the prince o-ouse, who was his elder, at the gate of the palace, he complimented him with the lead, to acceptor which the credulous prince being oyer-perfumed, waS abbey directly in the back by Cenuwiraat, who only said, " Traitor ! thou hast thy reward, and then left the city with his people; the prince died on the spot this murder railed rome bloody commotions Candy, which could be only appeared by the appear. ance of the empress, who loudly exclaimed again Cenuwieraat, breathing nothing but vengeance an outrage, so very atrocious, committed so ne her presence; yet he soon after not only found mea to convince her that the sac could not have be avoided, as being necessary for her preservation but he even permitted him to share her bed a throne, he, at his coronation, assuming the na of Camapati Mahadafcyn.,About this time, the king of Spain and Pot gal having made a truce for twelve years with si ages of Holland, the latter took that opportun of firmly establishing their commercial interests the East Indies; sending letters and embassies to the princes who were their friends. Among reft, Marcellus de Bofchhouwer, one of the c any's under-favors, was-went with credentials terms to Ceylon, and full power to enter into a te 'y with ths new king Camapati Mahadafcyn,,receil
received him with great pleasure, caused him to lbe other in white, and placed near his own perform n a chair of gold. In this conference, among other very-advantages' U articles. stipulated in favour of the Dutch, it was ranted that no other European nation hould be lowed to traffic in the island. That the Dutch ould be at liberty to build a sort, the king fur idling materials and labourers. That he should ifpocl of all his vendible treasures to the Dutch on y. That he should allow them the export of all heir merchandise duty free. That he should fur ill the timber and all necessaries for building such acts or boats, &c. as they should sand in need f. That the company's servants should be an enable to the company only for any trespasses hey might chance to commit. And that his ma fly should, with his whole force, assist them against e Portuguese, and all other enemies. They in, ke manner promising to fuaain him when attack , &c. After the conclusion of this treaty, Mr. Botch outer would have taken his leave and departed with one elephants that were going to the Dutch dory of Tegnapatam ; but the emperor entreated farther flay, heaping favours on him, creating n prince of Migonne, &c. knight of the order the golden fun, president of the council of war, second person in his privy council, and lord ih admiral of Ceylon; and taking no measures shout sirs formally consulting him. The Portuguese, about this time, having made me encroachments upon the Dutch factory, and offa few of Mr. Bofchhouwer's people, a bo of five thousand Cingalefe were sent in pursuit f hem, who cut off twenty-three Portuguese and . hundred Indian allies, bringing back to Candy )considerable booty.,F 3 This
This incursion determined the emperor to con. vent the ages, in order to concert a war for d;s. suffering the Portuguese of Give, Columbo, and other strong places; besides which, justiciary pro. meetings were set on foot against several tributary princes, either accused, or suffered of having en. tered into an alliance with the common enemy: among these were the kings of Cotiarum, and of Padua, the former of which was, after a formal tri,:i, acquitted; but the guilt of the latter was na. nifefl, in his declining to obey the summonses him to answer the charge: on which account the princes of Migonne and of Ouve marched into his dominions, at the head of thirty-five thousand men, determining to lay the country wife with fire ad sword; but the inhabitants prevented these proceed. kings by paying a very heavy tribute, and promising that their king hould appear personally at courting six or eight days, which he accordingly disaster a long examination before the privy count. cil, it fully appearing upon evidence, " 'Thathe,had concerted a dangerous conspiracy against the " fate in conjunction with the Portuguese," and,erploved a russian to murder the emperor for a " considerable reward," he acknowledged his guilt and craved mercy; but in vain, for he was lenten. cet to lose his head on the 24th of March, 613, The morning of which day he appeared in the castle of Modena Honore, upon a scaffold covered with white, a colour peculiar in this country legality, seated in a gilt chair; and though at fl he appeared with an undaunted spirit, yet, when by public proclamation he was deprived of his dig. city, he began to bewail his fate, and ask if there were any hopes of pardon; to this inquiry being answered in the negative, he suffered his attendant gentlemen to undress him, distributing among them his gold and jewels; after which he chewed form,betel
betel and are, then walking once or twice round the scaffold, as if in hope of a suspension of his fen hence, he made a few seemingly involuntary exclamations and then intreating that he might be b- tied in a regal manner, he laid his head upon the block, and at one blow it was severed from his bo dy, which, at the intreaty of the nobility, was ho. honourably interred. His uncle Samatway succeeded him with the con sent of the emperor, and after having conquered same opposing factions, he fettled himself securely on the throne, paid off the-arrears of tribute due: to the emperor, and. rejected very advantageous of sers made to him by the Portuguese. Some little time before this transaction, the he redstart prince of the empire, Don John's only on, dying, the empress was inconsolable for the lot?, and the people were moved, by some incendiaries, to believe that he was poisoned by the emperors contrivance; which was near occasioning an insurrection however, these suspicions, though perhaps not ill-grounded, were removed by the influence of the princes of Migonne and of Ouve, who allured them that the young prince died of a fever. The. tumult being appeased, the body was carried to the funeral pile in the most magnificent manner the procession was led by the prince's musicians loathed in black linen; followed by several pike men, with held-bearers and halberdeers, their weapons clubbed, three and three in a rank; then came forty war-elephants, guided by as many gen theme, and eight fine Persian horses led by eight knights of the golden fun; after there were the grooms of the bedchamber, all very richly clothed. Then came the scepter and crown, borne upon a black velvet cushion, ornamented with the prince's arms. Thecorpfe followed immediately after, at tended by eight of the chief men of the empires 4 The
Then came the empress in her litter, with sixteen fan-bearers, and people carrying four umbrellas, eight betel boxes, and a golden nosegay sacred to the imperial use. The emperor himself followed after, supported by the princes of Aligonne and Water, and the cavalcade was closed by the peers and prin. cipal governors of the empire the fleets through which they passed were adorn. ed with arches composed of fine stuffs and plaster: being arrived at the place of burial, the corpse was deposited in the middle of a square building, raised about seven feet from the ground, adorned with rows of trees, and the middle filled up with sides and fandal-swood, among which were disposed a Large quantity of sweet-scented butter, and three times as much oil of cinnamon; over it was a ca copy, under which the lords flood while certain words were pronounced by the priests; which be. i!ng ended, the prince of Migonne advanced to fie funeral pile, bearing a golden chaffing-dill, a bundle of straw, and a lighted torch, all which; he received from the prince of Aime, and setting; fre to the ile, the corpse was on consumed, and the train parted.,CHAP,
C HA P. Vii. The Emperor's ill furness at land recompensed by his ad' vantage tea: Donna Catharina dies: the emperors wrongly asserted at the loss : 'reigns his pwr, and appoints two administrators of the government. during his f/n's minority: a conspiracy against the emperor's children discovered, and the conspirators put to an exemplary death: a Portuguese may to Ceylon without. any success: several Skirmishes be tween the natives or Cinga'efe and the Portuguese :.-Bofhhouwer goes to Europe, enters the Danish ser vice, and dies: the Danes disappointed in their views, on the trade of this island: the Portuguese army betrayed and entirely routed: Columbo rein, forced, and the Cingalefi repulsed. rHE emperor now marched a good army j against the Portuguese posted in Walter the castle of which place he took by storm, but was beaten out of it by the irregularity of his people, one hundred and twenty-five of whom he ordered to be hanged up, for having, before they had secured their conquest, proceeded to plunder; a misconduct, the more especially disadvantage vous, as the enemy wag thereby left at liberty to re clive new supplies, and strengthen themselves more fully than before. However, his success at sea was something better; for some ships which he had fit tt out, under the conduct of a nephew of tl prince of Ouve, returned with a prodigious booty to the harbour of Cotiarum, whence they set our having plundered six Portuguese veflis, and flung. all the crews into the sea preserving only. the woo men and negroes,,|rIo 5 e. * ' -
In July r6r3, the empress departed this lifein the thirty-fifth year of her age, after a very tedious illness: a little before her death he delivered her five children, being three sons and two daughters, to the care of the princes of Migonne and of Ouve; and solemnly repenting of the idolatrous life he had led, called them to witness that the recanted her er. ross, and died persuaded of the truths of Christian. city, in the belief of which the had been educated,,It was remarkable, that some severe words which she spoke to her husband when delirious, assessed him so very violently, that he never rightly recover. ed. For, in something more than a month after, he convened the general assembly of the states, be fore whom, and with their unanimous content, he appointed the princes of Migonne and of Ouve ad. instigators of the affairs of the empire, during the minority of his eldest son Contra Singartanne: this office they modestly declined, but the choice of the young prince corresponding with the nomination of the emperor, who declared that-grief and sickness disabled him from attending to affairs slate, they were obliged to submit; and a patent, confirming them in this important station, the day following, passed the great feal.,The emperor, in a few days after, delivered his heir apparent, and the other children, to whom the slates and administrators had sworn allegiance, to the care of the two princes, by whom they were privately send to the-dukedom of Cocklecorle, that being thus secured in a private retreat, their live might be safe from ill designs; but they were on after forced to remove them to another place, on the following occasion gael Generated, governor of Harciffate and pre. sident of the dukedom of Cocklecorle, who had been long in the Portuguese interest, and had privately supplied them with provisions at Walane,,had
bad lately entered into articles with them, sup ported by one discontented noblemen, to murder the emperor's issue, such of the nobility as dared to oppose them, and the princes administrators. This intelligence was given to the prince of Mi gone by a Brain, and thereupon he suddenly, at the head of a body of troops, went against a party of Gael's soldiers, who were marching privately with powder, ball, and provision to Lane: the commander of them, surprized at the prince's un, expected appearance, tried, but in vain, to blunder out an excuse for his march; the prince ordered. him to be searched; and a letter, the, purport of which we have already mentioned, directed to the, Portuguese governor, was found in his pocket. When this general saw that things were come to extremity, and that every thing was discovered, hp endeavoured with his people to stand on the de: pensive, but they were all quickly cut to pieces,. some few excepted, that saved themselves in the. woods. Gael himself, who knew nothing of this translation being summoned tb court, immediately o- beycd; and upon examination exhibited such a shew of innocence, that had not the proofs of his perfidy been beyond contradiction, he must have been acquitted; however, he was confronted by. the Brain, which staggered his resolution, and he confessed the whole, entreating mercy, but re fused to discover the names of his accomplices, who. were twenty-fix in number, all men of dissension; but the inconveniencies of his taciturnity, the well instructed Brain easily removed; they were all straightway apprehended, and being condemned on. the 25th of October, were on the 27th beheaded on a public scaffold, and their bodies thrown to the dogs.,F 6 Four
Four of Gael's principal.counfellors were quam. tered, and hung over the castle-wall of Cocklecorle, their fiefs having been previously torn off with red hot pincers, and their hands cut off. Fifty soldi. hers, who had endeavoured to favour the governor's escape, when he was first conviCted,. were all be. headed; and lass of all, the governor himself, after having been a spectator of the miserable exit of all his accomplices, had his flesh burned at the corner of every street, with red-hot pincers, afterwards he was broke alive upon the wheel, and before he was quite dead, flung to the elephants, one of which threw him to a considerable height, and catching him in his teeth as he fell, crushed him to pieces,,In the year 1614, Don Munro de Ferrara ar living at Columbo with the title and authority of viceroy of Goa, went a solemn embassy to Candy, to endeavour to induce the emperor to enter into an alliance with the king of Spain and Portugal, re bouncing the friendship of the Dutch; but this re. quest being flatly refused, as well as every offer that Spain and Portugal could pretend to make, the Portuguese marched a firing army, confining of twenty-five thousand men against Candy; but they we're met on the road by the emperor's forces, whereby they were routed with considerable loss; and tre prince of Migonne, who was principal up on: this' command, in consequence of his victory, was received with great joy on his return to Candy. Another body of the enemy were soon after defeat e by the emperor's forces, which thereby obtain. td a large quantity of provisions and ammunition that-they had under convoy; though in another at tempo the fanmenature, which was made shortly after,: considerable number of imperial troops being betrayed,. were cut to pieces, two only es capiAg.,About
About the end of this year, a bloody war broke out between the kings of Botecalo and. Palugam, occasioned by the murder of some ambassadors of the latter, as they passed through Botecalo; the: consequence of which, was fortune justly declaring in favour of the king of Palugam, who saw his enemy not only treacherously killed, but himself put in possession of the kingdom that belonged to the deceased. The succours, which had been so long promised by the states of Holland,.not arriving so expeditiously as was hoped for and expected, Marcellus de Bofchhouwer, otherwise the Prince of Migonne, who had already attained the highest honours that, a subjea in the island of Ceylon could arrived, determined, with permission of the Eat India com any's governors and directors in that part of the world, to embark for Europe, to hate their com ing; the emperor giving him the title of his am ambassador extraordinary, and a carte blanche, to stipulate with whom, and in whatever manner he pleased, such articles of commerce or treaty. of peace, as he should think most for his imperial ma jetty's advantageous arrived in Europe after a very prosperous voyage in very few months, but not being received by the Dutch with that cordial affection and true esteem which he imagined his services merited, and they certainly deserved much, he withdrew himself from the allegiance of the states of Holland, taking with him his treasure, and retired to Denmark about the middle of the year 1617, where he en tered into a treaty of peace and commerce with the Danish king, in the name of the king of Ceylon, by whom he was furnished with a man of war and yacht to carry him back : he went aboard in March, 1618, with his lady, who challenged the rank and title of princess of Migonne, and a large retinue,.,attended
attended by five ships, commanded by Gule Gedde a Danish nobleman; but he died upon the voyage, which was extremely distressful, the ships being near. two years before they made the island of Ceylon, where they put into different harbours.,Gule Gedde immediately sent notice of his ar. rival to the emperor, recounting the death of the prince of Migonne, and the treaty by him previously made with the king of Denmark; which Campania refused to ratify, alledging that he had not given the prince any authority of that nature; so that the Danes had nothing to compensate the expence of the expedition, but the private fortune of poor Bofchhouwer, which was on board; and which Gule Gedde immediately seized for the use of the king his mailer, sending his lady, who had saved a little from the wreck, to Candy, from which place in about seven years after, he was went with some attendants to Tranquebar. Gule Gedde soon set sail for Denmark, after having hovered some time about the coast, and lost one of his ships, which being seized upon by the crew of Trinquene- male, was by this misconduct split upon a rock; and the soldiers and sailors who saved themselves by the help of the boat on the coast coromandel, lifted some in the Portuguese, and others in the Dutch serviceable Portuguese being, by his departure, rid of their fears from that quarter, took every shep that to them appeared best for securing the trade of the whole island to themselves, excluding every other European nation. To which purpose, though they had, in express terms, positively agreed with the emperor to ere no more forts, yet partly by fraud, and partly by force, they found means to run up two new fortifications, which, with what they possessed before, made the number of their strong holds seven, whereby they were come males of the,principal
principal avenues of the island. The emperor find ing himself, by these encroachments, laid under ve-ry severe restriCtions, resolved to make a bold push for the extirpation of the Portuguese, especially as he was promised assistance by the Cingalefe in habiting Columbo, which was their principal fort res. Some Cingalefe, who had insinuated them selves into the good graces of Constantine de Saa, the governor of the place, persuaded him to draw out ell his forces to the siege of Ouve, induced thereto by rome fresh quarrel, to which he was the more easily 'inclined, as a body of Cingalefe, a- mounting to eight thousand, assured him of their readiness to follow his fortune. These taking ad vantage of a very violent form, whereby the Portuguese were disabled from using their firelock, as well as the approach of the emperor's army, turn ed tail upon their allies, and being seconded by the imperial troops, attacked them in flank as they de scended a hill, firing upon them from the covert of a wood; after which they fell in among them pell-mell, and with scimitar in hand, made a pro vicious slaughter, and put them entirely to flight, scarcely any of them escaping the head of the general Constantine de Saa was cut off by one of the revolting Cingalefe, who lay ing it on a drum-head, presented it to one of the emperor's sons, as he was refreshing his body in an adjacent brook. It is indisputable that De Saa me rites a better fate, and more sincerity from the Cinq gales of Columbo, to whom he had been always extremely beneficent and humane. This defeat occasioned a general consternation among the Portuguese, but more particularly at Columbo, which place there were scarcely any troops left to defend, unless a few inhabitants, and none of these in the bloom of youth, merited that name; this encouraged the emperor to send his,youngest
youngest on Mahaiflanne, afterwards called Ra, Singaaaa, to lay siege to that important place,. which was accordingly done. But Lancelot de Series, who succeeded Constantine de; Saa in the govern. ment of it, made a defence so gallant and surprize. ing, that Raja Singaaaa, after having spent a month before the walls, to no other purpose than that of losing a great number of men, and wasting a con miserable deal of ammunition and provision, was ob. lived to raise the siege; the town was soon after re inforced by four hundred men from Goa with pro. visions, arms, ammunition, &c. o that the garry. son once more held up its head, and bid defiance to the attacks of its enemies; nor did the Cingalefet think it at all to the purpose. to return to the charges I A P
CHAP. IX. Tie emtnel'r di s; his dominions divided: Raja Singaaaa flames the imperial authority: makes peace with the Portuguese, which they violate: he solicits an alliance with the Dutch, to whom he allows vals immunities: the Portuguese plunder Candy: are drawn into an ambuscade, and entirely destroyed : thy Ife Lateral and Culture: The city of Pun regale is taken by Form: a frog body of Portuguese defeated: the city of Colurkb besieged : an em. ba j from the king of Ceylon to the Dutch general Hulft, promising to ash in besiege: the garrison provision begins to runJort: the emperor ar rives in the neighbourhood of the Dutch camp, visited ly the general, who is magnificent entertained; the general dies of a wound. She old emperor dying n 1632, his treasons shared among them his dominions;. the youngest assuming the imperial title, under the name of Raja Singaaaa Adafcyn, and on the death of his eldest brother, seizing upon the province of (uve, which the latter had inherited, without of fering to divide it with his second brother Visa Pal la Haflanne, which occasioned between them an irreconcilable rupture. In the mean time the Portuguese, having forced. not of the lowland princes to side with them, en, devoured to make one farther progress in the: heart of the country; but the new emperor fur. prized them in their camp, and obliged them to retreat precipitately to Columbo; and indeed it was" generally their fate to be repulsed, when they at tempted to make a lodgment in the mountains. They afterwards concluded a temporary peace. with,him,
him, but broke through the articles of it the first fa, favourable opportunity: so that the emperor was for. cet to solicit the assistance of the Dutch, in a letter to the governor of Paliacatta, by name Charles Rey. piers; who took such measures, that a firm alliance was entered into with his imperial majesty, again the Portuguese; the Dutch being in return allowed to load rome of their ships with cinnamon and pep. per. About the same time there happened an en engagement between the Portuguese and Dutch fleets of Goa, in which the former was worried, and their naval force in this part of the world thereby conti. deadly impaired, as in consequence of it they loR two or three of their Ships richly laden they began now, on many accounts, to fufpea the emperor's confederacy with the Dutch; and in order to destroy it effectually, their generals De Melt, Damijao Bottado, and Sorte, unanimously resolved to march against Candy, by taking which place, they imagined they should weaken Raja Sin. ga considerably the emperor having notice given him of their design, retired from that town, taking with him all that was valuable to the mountains; whither, as he suspected, the enemy having plundered and afterwards set fire to the place, precipitately follow ed, imagining that he was in such circumstances as to be quite unable to repel their attacks. But they soon found themselves miserably mistaken; for the emperor, who was wrongly encamped when they came into the midi of the mountains, ordered eve ry avenue by which they had advanced, or through which they could have any hope of retreating, to be blocked up with great trees that were cut down on the spot, and could not, by the bare strength of man, be possibly removed; after which proceeding, he watched the first favourable opportunity of assail. ing them, and a violent storm of rain having da,.naged
eiaged their fire-arms very considerably, he invade a general attack with all his forces; whereby they were loon put into disorder, and a total rout en sued; the slaughter was very great, for out of two thousand three hundred Portuguese and Moors, not above seventy escaped with life, and these were spar. ed through the clemency of the conqueror, who. made them prisoners the Portuguese lost in this engagement all their great officers, and among them their brave general de Melt, whose sword was afterwards presented to. 'the emperor, who had viewed the whole affair from a high land, on the opposite side of a river that wa tered the place wherein the battle was fought; and the heads of the deceased enemies were piled before. him in a heap forming a pyramid. The emperor, after this victory, marched his army against the sort of Batecalo, while the Dutch admiral Weller wold made an attack upon it by sea, and in nine days it surrendered upon conditions, the Portuguese and Fifties, to the number of one hundred and eight, being transported with their wives and children to Negapatnam; and fifty Cingalefe, who bad been concerned in murdering a gentleman belonging to the emperor of Ceylon's court, were. impaled alive, while rome others that were taken were en laved. After the surrender of this fortress, there was a new treaty of peace and commerce concluded be tween Ceylon and Holland, which was sealed and signed by the emperor on the one part for himself, his feal being the head of his scimitar impressed upon red wax, and by admiral Wefterwold and William Jacob Roller, for the states of Holland, on the other; the substance of these articles was much to the same purpose as those before made with Bofchhouwer; and in consequence of them, the Dutch were immediately-supplies with four hun-.,dred
died bales of cinnamon, eighty-seven quintals of wax, and three thousand fifty-nine pounds of pep. per, to reimburse the extraordinary charges they had been at in stifling the emperor; who more over went two ambassadors to Batavia, with several considerable presents, and a ratification of the treaty, addressed to the general and council of the Indies. These ambassadors were received with extraordinary respect, and sent back to Ceylon with great honour. This translation happened in the year 638. In the month of March, of the very same year, the city of Puntegale, more commonly called Gale, was taken by storm, vice-admiral Hosier leading the attack; it was afterwards made one of the strong. eft fortified places the Dutch have in the East Indies: it has a very commodious bay, but at the entrance of the harbour there is dangerous rock, to avoid which a good pilot is very necessary; besides, the road lies close under the cannon of the fort. The city is defended by three strong bastions, and so fur rounded by rocks, that it is scarcely to be approach ed by the smallest boat. There is a hawthorn by way of beacon, a cannon for giving signal, and the company's colours planed upon an angle that juts pretty far into the sea. The city is well built;. the houses built of tone are high, with handsome gardens and excellent springs; and there are good roads cut round it through a rocky g'round.,In Sober 655, Culture, a place of some strength, surrounded with an earthen wall, and not unpleasantly situated, surrendered to general Hulft, the Portuguese garrison, consisting of two hundred and fifty-five men, having. stipulated that they sould, at the company's charge; be sent home to Europe. There was found in this place a very large quantity of military flores, and Yfbraad God skins was made governor of it, with a sufficient,body
body of men under his command to prote .it: Gas. par Figaro was on. his march. to relieve it at the same time with six hundred soldiers, of which pro meetings the Dutch having received intelligence from a casual prisoner, some forces set out immediately to meet them, nor was it long before they came up with, engaged and routed them,, then purfued'their way to Columbo, to which place not above one hundred and sixty, out of the six hun died men-that had accompanied Figaro, returned about the'middle of October, the Dutch general prepared for the siege of Columbo: and on the 23d he received a letter from the emperor of Ceylon, written by himself, With strong assurances of friend hip; it was brought by one of disown special post men, and rapturously perfumed; on each side of the writing was, figured a. woman with her hands folded, and her eyes raised to heaven ,On the 26th, some useful intelligence was ob gained from a Dutchman, who had formerly de served to the Portuguese, and who now thought pro per to return to his colours.; and:the ane day one batteries being finished, several pieces of cannon were brought to play upon one quarter of the town. On the 4th of November, general Hulft received a very kind embassy from Raja Singaa, by the person of Tension Apuhamy, who was adorned with a golden breast-plate set with precious stones and fastened to a gold. chain. .son the 9th, the Portuguese governor was sum money to surrender, but he rejected the; proposal; i, consequence whereof, a general assault was made on the place the eth, but the general's receiving a wound in the thigh, threw things into some con. fusion, and respited the town a few months longer; in this attempt lieutenant Melchior Van Schonbeek, a noble German, mounted the, bastion of St. John,,where
where not being seconded, he died desperately fight ing; and his head was afterwards exposed on tI same bastion stuck on a pike. Shortly after, asleep of thirty Portuguese frigates, destined for the relief of Columbo, were dispersed by a storm, and most of them lost; about which time the general receive. ed another message from Raja Singaa, acquainting him, that in spite of the Portuguese, *ho made many endeavours to alienate his friendship from Holland, he was not only resolved to adhere firmly to his engagements, but to make all possible haste to support the siege with an army of his-fubjels.,On the 26th, the general was informed by a ne. gro deserter, that the governor's on had been late. ly killed by a musket-ball, as he was encouraging the men upon the works; and that a mine was rea. dy to be sprung under the bastion of St. John, the first time he should attack it. The inhabitants of the town began now to be in want of provisions, so that those who were able to bear arms were for. cet by hunger to inlift, while the women and children were permitted to ally out on the Dutch camps, and became at last so troublesome that the general gave orders they hould be whipped back to the bastion of St. John: besides, by the best ac. counts it appeared, that the provisions of the gar ripon could not hold out above a couple of months longer, as their rice already began not only to run short, but to be stony and unclean the emperor being now encamped in the neigh boyhood of the Dutch; signified by a letter, that he expected a visit from the general, according which intimation, his excellency set out on the 5th of April for his majesty's quarters with a large re tinge. Here he was received with prodigious mag munificence, and lodged in a house prepared purposely for his reception, the-bedchamber of which were,4 furnished
furnished with gold Ruffs, and the other rooms hung with white linen. As he approached it, he was met by a party of soldiers, umbrella-carriers, trumpeters, and other musicians; eleven elephants, and two file horses richly caparisoned and orna melted with gold and precious stones. The day following, variety and plenty of provisions were brought in a boat for the use of the general and his people; but the emperor being very ill, for which he had been blooded in the arm, gave one room to fear that his excellency, whose presence before Columbo was certainly necessary, would be obliged to return without the honour of the interview that had occasioned his journey his majesty being informed that the general had an intention of that fart, by letter signified, that, notwithstanding his disorder, he would give him audience next day, being April 8. Accordingly, about noon the ensuing day, the emperor's drums, trumpets, and private music, with three of his choicest horses elegantly caparisoned appeared on the opposite side of the river, accompanied by one persons of the first quality, in order to grace his excellency's train, which im mediately crossed the river with his excellency at the held of it, where he was received bathe captain of the emperor's body-guard; and then proceeded to the imperial quarters in the following manner. First, his excellency's body-guards then the en signs and standards taken from the foe trailing along the ground; after these came the emperor's horses and musicians, with five tame elephants, and the way through which they passed was lined with fol tiers. When the Hollanders entered the palace, the doors were shut after them, and they were in produced into a hall where his imperial majesty sat on a throne, which had several steps whereby to ascend it. Here all te couriers prostrated them-selves
selves upon the ground, and the Dutch on their knees, till his majeRy by nod gave them a signal to rise. When the general came near the throne, he made an elegant speech, wherein he assured his majesty of his firm attachment to him, and his high sense of the honour allowed him in being permitted to make this address, as well as of the ifrong inch. nation the states of Holland had to preserve an amity with him, and to assist in clearing his dominions from a set of people, who paid scarcely any refpea to treaty or alliance, when their interest taught them to violate it.,Afterwards he presented him some presentS, t little value in themselves, and kneeling on a cushion, set for that purpose at the foot of the throne, had the honour to kiss his majesty's hand, who threw Â·over his neck a golden collar, and on his finger put a precious ring; after which ceremony he retired at a little distance, and here recapitulated the ad vantages he had gained over the enemy; to which the emperor listened with vast pleasure; and calling him a second time to the throne, invested him with a garter of gold, which he assured him had been worn by the prince himself after this ceremony, the presents intended for his majesty were brought, among which were a white buckler that had formerly belonged to a Por. tuguefe nobleman, and an Indian scimitar, the hilt 'whereof was' a curious inlay of gold and agate; in laying the latter at his majesty's feet, the general told him, that-it was a gift intended for the young prince to employ, when in-riper years, againfthis enemies, nay even against 'the Dutch themselves, Should-they ever merit his displeasure. Nor was-this compliment made without having a very good effect upon the emperor the company's presents to the emperor besides, were two beautiful Persian hunters, a couple aspersion
Persian bows, with arrows and quivers curiously embroidered, a Turky gun, a rich Japanese gown, two grey-hounds, two. Persian sheep, two rock goats of Vifapoar, and a piece of Sandal wood. Their presents for the prince were one fine Per sign horse, two fuzees, the barrels .of them remark ably neat, one silver bason, two pieces of Persian luff wrought with gold, two silver boxes of China, one piece of Sandal wood, and a hog-shone. All these things having been examined, the at. tenants were ordered to withdraw, and the gene rat had a private conference for about a quarter of an hour with his imperial majesty, and was after wards conduced back to his lodgings in great pomp: whence he set out next morning, being the 9th of April, for his camp, where he arrived that evening, and found matters on the side of the be hewers advance greatly but on the loth, as he was encouraging the workmen and soldiers on one of he batteries, he received a shot in his breast, where of he died in a few hours, and in him the Dutch lost one of the best officers they ever had in India.,VOL. V. G C HA P,
CHAP. X. Tke siege f Columbo continued : the diy f;rrendrs:,behaviur of the conquerors misrepresented; Dutch deserters punished: Raja Singaaaa quarrels with his allies; treats with the Portuguese; hues the Dtc ill: Stiffen routs some cf his people, and detains fine elephants: Raja Singaaaa reduces a Dutchtitle. intent: Succours arrive from Batavia : the island of Mlanaar invaded and taken from the Pcrtuguq, and entirely reduced by the Dutch: vanity cf a negro : ejui'ts careful of injTrufiing the tpeple: tIe Portuguese retire before the Dutch, who lay siege t Yafnapatnam; the town is reduced, and the aIl, astir fine tine, fbiits upon terms: miserable ron. dliisn of the garrison : a past fomented by the Por. luguefe discovered, and the ring-leaders punished: te whole island reduced by the Dutch: happiness If this alliance to the emperor. try-HE siege went on briskly notwithstanding I the general's death, who was succeeded in command by Adrian Vander Meyden, governors Puntegale, and the besieged were reduced to such digress, that a woman was known to eat her child; and to increase their calamity, the Portuguese fleet from Goa, with provision and soldiers to reinforce and relieve them, was defeated by some thisbe longing to Holland, near Tutecoryn, while some succours arrived from Batavia at the Dutch camp may the 7th, his excellency gave orders fora general assault upon the town; but could only carry one bastion, and that with much difficulty; how ever, he secured a lodgment upon it, the guns of which was turned upon the town ; in consequence heres a white flag was hung out over the walls,and
and the day following, being May the eth, 656, the town-surrendered upon conditions, the Portuguese garrison marching out with all the honours of war, drums beating and colours flying, to the head quarters, where they surrendred themselves; and a party of the triumphant forces immediately enter ed, taking possession of the place, and advancing the Dutch standard: thus did this important place fall into the hands of the Dutch, after a siege of near nine months, and after having been in posses sion of the Portuguese one hundred and fifty years. From thirteen hundred people that had been in the town at the beginning of the siege the number was reduced to one hundred and ninety; among whom were some lame and decrepit, who had to the last assisted to the best of their power in defence of the place, which it was justly imagined cost the Hollanders more than three thousand men, and as much money as would have built another Columbo. The Portuguese reported that the Dutch, on the render of it, were guilty of the greatest disorders, permitting the inhabitants to be plundered, the prisoners to be abused, and. the images and churches o be profaned and despoiled, contrary to the tenor f the articles agreed upon between the commanders but the truth of this imputation the .Dutch ave flatly denied ; for our author assures us, that far was this from being true, that a fold er was hipped for petty larceny; so very trie, says he, as discipline observed by Vander Meyden. Se rat Dutch deserters, who were not admitted to re the benefit of the treaty, were gibbeted as on as taken: among whom was Simon Lopez de' cato, who had done considerable damage to the besiegers. The plunder found in the town confined of bout seven loads of musty rice, some packs of cinnamon good store of arrack, twenty four lights 2 frigates,
frigates, nine of them sunk; fifteen hundred gil. ders in ready money, thirty-three packs of cloth, twenty-five bells of good metal, sixty brass and sixty-eight iron cannon, one mortar, ten thousand cannon-bullets, sixty-five thousand pound of un powder, besides one hundred and fifteen pound weight that was damaged, with a large quantity of brimstone and flt-petre. Shortly after, Raja Singaaaa wrote a very every letter to the Dutch ge neral, complaining, that he had not received any formal advice of the surrender of Columbo, which he alledged, according to a treaty subsisting between him and the late general Hull, ought to have been delivered up to him. But this was not the in. mention of the Dutch: however, Vander Meyden sent back an answer by way of excuse, couched in the mol reste Foul terms, and a present of a falcon, a sparrow-hawk, and a Persian falconer: notwithstanding which his people grew very troublesome, annoying small scattering parties of the Dutch where ever they chanced to meet them, and endeavour. ing to cut off their supply s. Besides, advice was brought by two deserters, that he had entered into a private treaty with the Portuguese, and granted them some profitable settlements; and the truth of this appeared in the sequel; for he not only made slaves of one of the Hollanders who fell into his hands, but cut off the ears, and slit the notes of such of their slaves as chanced to fall into his power. And, to make things still worse for the Dutch, the Cingalefe who were in their service betrayed all their measures, while they were, at no rate, able to fathom the designs of Raja Singaaaa; though there was some reason to think, that his real intention was to p!av the Dutch against the Portuguese, and the Portuguese against the Dutch, siding always with the weakest fine, in order to prevent thereby either from growing too unwieldy for him to ma-,nage i
nage; in which case, natural policy told him his crown would be in danger, which was at length the consequence of the Europeans having obtained a firm sting in the island-sit is certain, however, that after the taking of Columbo, and finding that the place and some others which had surrendered were not delivered in to his hinds, a condescension he had always expert he was never firmly reconciled to the DIurch, tho' the Portuguese had no great reason to triumph in his defection. Sho thy after the surrender of Co limbo, Raja Singaaaa, jealous of the advantages which the Dutch seemed to poflhfs, connived at many rob series committed by his people, who began to grow at length so very daring, that Mr. John Thylfen, the company's agent in these parts, was obliged to declare open war against them, and detained orme tame elephants belonging to the king. His majeiy was so rich provoked at this in fuit, that he attacked and reduced one of the Dutch settlements; a success, the advantage f which was - destroyed by the arrival of Mynheer Maabzuyker from Batavia with fine forces, who took the best methods of strengthening the-several fortification, and securing the gathering of the cinnamon in safe ty, while Raja Singaaaa retreated; but from behaving with vast circumspection towards them, it was evident that they were not enemies. In a journey which our author made over land in the year 1606, from Jafnapatnan to Columbo, he observed, that in all that space, being about fifty leagues, there grew no cinnamon, except on the op polite ide of the riv r Chicago; but, as the country is extremely fertile in the spontaneous-productions of many necessaries, so it is destitute of inhabitants; and buffaloes-ae found feeding every here in vast herds: there is room to believe, that if it was,G3 flocked
flocked with people, it would turn out a valuable trac.,In the year 1658, the Hollanders, commanded by Mr. Rijkiof Van Goes, landed upon the island cf Manaar, which was formerly joined to the main land; and, notwithstanding that entrenchments were thrown up along the shore-side, and defended by twelve frigates and a thousand Portuguese, they advanced with courage and success, making them. selves masters of the island with no more loss of any consequence than that of an ensign and a lieu tenant; while on the Portuguese side, there fell many brave officers, among whom were the gene rat Antonio, admiral de Menses, and Antonio Mended D'Aranha.,The Portuguese, moi of whose frigates were sunk, finding they could not hold the place, crossed the water to Jafnapatnam, leaving a few soldiers, most of whom afterwards deserted, in possession of the carle of St. George, under command of Andrew Vilcfa, who in a few days surrendred and had good terms: there were two hundred prisoners taken here, reckoning both Europeans and negroes; morn v.tom was an African negro, who in a point of necessity being entrusted with a captain's pot,. immediately conceived himself a great man, and irfifed upon his rank till he was bastinado cet or it into a slave egain.,.Manaar is a compound of two Malabar words, Man and Ar, the former signifying land, and the latter a river ; it is about two German leagues and a half long-and one broad, including the salt wa ter river. The castle of St. George is seated on a canal that communicates with Jafnapatnam, and will bear mal yachts, drawing between three and four feet water; it is surrounded with a deep ditch, and the Dutch have strengthened it with several additional fortifications. It had been once famous fora pearl
a pearl fishery, whereby the inhabitants were en riches ; but that mine of treasure failing, they were soon impoverished: however, it was set on foot again by the Dutch in 666, and was. carried on with tolerable success. The Malabar language is that which is mos com monty spoken in Manaar, where most of the inhabitants are Christians; for which reason they were sorely oppressed by the king of Jafilapatnam: few of them are unacquainted with the Portuguese tongue. They were first converted by St. Francis Xavier the great apostle of the Indies, who ap pointed certain teachers in every diftri : these at firs were friars, but they were succeeded by Je suits, called Paulinus, in this part of the world, be cause sent hither first by pope Paul III. and it is certain that they were indefatigable in their million, and taught the first principles of christianity with great care and attention. This islanders inhabited by fishermen, who make tome money by preserving and drying their commo city and then'exporting it for sale to the neigh pouring coasts. There is an amphibious animal of the sea-calf species, the females of which have breasts and nipples, whereby they. give suck to their young, their flesh is very lite, and might be mistaken for veal when boiled, eating not unlike sturgeon. Mr. Rijklof Van'Gons having left a good garrison in Manaar, crossed the river towards Jafnaatnam, which though very broad, was easily sured ; this part of the country being called Man motte, is very fertile in rice, which is however often trampled down by the wild elephant. They ex pest-d the Portuguese would have attacked them, passing the river, but were disappointed ; for though they might have easily done it, the opposite bank being very muddy, yet they chose to retreat to the head spring of the river: when the Dutch had all,G 4 near
near passed over, the inhabitants received them very civilly, furnishing them with all manner of fruits and provisions. Near Sandecouli they had a smart engagement with a mall body of'Portuguere, whom they routed, and encamped for that night on the spot where they had kirmifhed.,The 'ensuing day they advanced towards the city of Jafnapatnam, breaking thro' the walls ad houses, for it had no fortifications, and chains the Portuguese from street to street, a final rain of artillery which they had brought with them be. ing of especial service in this case. By the i8th of March they became master of the Dominican mo. mastery, and indeed of the whole town, the enemy retiring to the castle, into which the inhabitants cf the country thronged along with them, so that it was so crouded there was no disposing of the people to advantage, they being a hinderancetoeach other, instead of being a mutual affiance. Here they fut themselves up, and the Dutch attacked one of its strongest fort., which, for want of fret water, was forced to surrender upon conditions, the fol. tiers being allowed to march out with all military honours, and a promise made by the Dutch gene. rat, that they hould be transported to Europe, if they chore it, at the company's expence provisions, assistance, and supplies of all sorts heine cut off from the castle, it surrendered, after sustaining a siege of more than three months; the garrison being allowed to march out drums bearing, and colours fly;in, taking with them al so one piece of cannon; and having stipulated that they should be transported to Europe, the head officers, among wh m were John de Melts, Leo nardo d'Olie.ero, Viator de Fazendas, and An thonio Mended D'Aranha, to be civilly treated, and allowed to pars to any of their own forts; the ecclesiastics were to be carried to the coast of Coromandel,
mantel, arid the gold, silver, and jewels, with. other valuable commodities, to be left to the discretion of the conquerors. The garrison was two days crawling out, being so very weak that they were unable to drag after them the ingle piece of cannon they had stipulated for, having loti sixteen hundred men during the siege. When the Dutch army entered the place they found it almost battered to-pieces, by the bombs that had been thrown into it; and the stench arising from the dead bodies and filth wherewith it was almost choaked up, was intolerable. The first thing the conquerors did, was to appoint Jacob Rhee, a man of a solid understanding, com slander in the place pro tempore, and he immediately took off the duty upon tobacco, which im unity encouraged the inhabitants of the country to come in and assist in levelling the ruins of the houses, which encumbered the castle, removing the sill, clearing the springs, and planting, by way of ornament, three hundred cocoa-trees. As many of the Portuguese had, on the reduction of Jafnapatnam, entered the Dutch service, they were admitted as part of the garrison whereupon they entered into a conspiracy to murder all their officers, and the rest of the conquerors party, during the fine of sermon - bti it being happily discovered to Mr. Jacob Vander Rhea, the guards were doubled, the castle gates shut, and all the traitors secured, fume of whom, being plainly convicted were hanged, and others beheaded the three principal conductors of this bloody de sign were a MVanaar and two Portuguese, who after bring stretched on-the wheel, were struck with the ax in the neck and on the breast, their hearts being afterwards taken out, and laid while yet warm o., their mouths. Among others that suffered death in this affair was a sick Jesus:, who, had nct-,G tl'er
.ther contented to, nor abetted their designs; but some of them had revealed it in craving his be. reduction, and for his concealing the secret he jolt his head. The castle of Jafnapatnam is a quadrangle, strongly fortified, and surrounded with high walls; it is the capital of the kingdom, and takes up more ground than 'the castle of Batavia, In a short time after the reduction of it, Philip-D'Oiivero met with and defeated a large body of Cingalefe near Machiavelli, which place he also pos. sessed himself of, though belonging to the emperor ces Ceylon.,In the neighbourhood of a large pagode, the remains of which are ill visible, is a miraculous spring, twenty-four roods wide, cut out of an en tire rock; the inhabitants say that it was caused by -a thunder-bolt.,The city of Negapatnam was shortly after re duce by the power of the Hollanders, and all the other firing-holds in the hands of the Portuguese shared the lame fate, one after another; that at length Portugal lost all her interest in this island, and the trade of the cinnamon and other valuable commodities produced here were wholly engrossed by the Dutch, who having no European enemies to contend with, aed in the most tyrannical man ner, and convinced the emperor in process of time, that though the Portuguese were treacherous over. reaching neighbours, disobedient subjects, and un faithful allies, the Dutch were still worse, and he suffered considerably in the exchange; indeed he merited no better for his very unfaithful dealings with each party Toy
A V O Y A G E to the North of Europe,,containing an Account of the Sea Coasts and Mines of N o R W A Y and the LA P- LANDS, SIBERIA, BORANDIA, ICELAND, ZEMBLA, and other Countries, interspersed with curious Remarks: to which are added,. some authentic Memoirs, relating to the ancient Manners and Customs of the Russians Extracted from the Observations of a Gentleman, employed by the North Sea Company at COPENHAGEN, to make Discoveries.,CHAP. Some count of this treatise, and the author of it : the occasion of his voyage: the creek cf Shalt described : . bte jflp in danger of running aground: arrives on the Norwegian coast: the author lands at Oijbo, where he is well received: be jets forward on an island excuses; the buildings, beasts, birds, and' manner of the Norwegians descried: he goes, upon an elk chace, and is very hospitably treated by a conrty gentleman: the falling-fines in bears the J3ip fits sail for Berghen.,H O U G H the following voyage is near anr hundred years old, it ought not to be over looked for many reasons ; particularly be cause it describes the soil and manners of countries with which we' are as yet but-indifferently acquainted i and that while the candour with which,GÃ³ ir
it is delivered claims our attention, many circum. stances of it are pregnant with-entertainment, as well as conducive to knowledge. It was written by a gentleman who was appointed surgeon toa ship fitted out by the North-sea company, under the king of Denmark's royal licence, with two others, for the improvement of commerce, and making discoveries towards the Artic pole; and ue shall pu sue the account in the same natural order in which he has delivered it, except his memoirs concerning Russia, which as they break in upon the thread of his narration, we shall divide from the main bdy of it, and insert by way of appendix.,In the beginning of April 1653, proceeds our author, having taken in all our lading, together with provision and other necessary stores, having a good gale at southeast, and sir weather, we fail ed from the port of Copenhagen, in company with two other ships. We soon made Kat-Gat, a streight dividing the German from the Baltic Sea; it is a rocky dangerous passage, extending from Hellebore to Schagerhort, which cannot be less than forty leagues. - When we arrived abreast of Maitland, a small sea-port city, thirty leagues from Copenhagen, the wind veering to the northward drove us back at least ten leagues, and forced us into Cachalot, the first port we could make. Here we cast anchor, under helter of the cattle, which has a ruined de slate appearance; but it is a good road for flip ping, and its promontory is well known to all who use the Baltic trade: here we laid three days, and on the fourth, by break of day, the wind coming about to the eastward, we weighed anchor and pro needed on our voyage; but, in about four hours, we met the wind again contrary, and blowing hard, so that we were forced to quit the coast of Got tenura, in view of which we then were, and,lanll
hand over towards that of Jutland; here we drove at a great rate, keeping the lead-always going, on account of the hallows .with which this road a- bounds; notwithstanding which, had not we had a skilful pilot and ale sailors, we should have run aground, being at one place in three fathom and a half water; but we made a quick tack, and gain ing the advantage of the wind in half a hour's time, founded at fifteen fathoms water.,WVe held on our way here along the sands, about the space of two leagues, when tho' we furled all our sails, except the top-malt, and did our utmost to keep clear of it, w were drove into an eddy, where we were as fettled as if we had cast anchor: we hould have found it hard to have got clear of this had not the wind varied a point or two to the southeast, blowing fresh, whereby we were en able to pass it. After a few days course we had fit .f Chriflianfand in Norway, a promontory that takes its name from a small village at the foot of it, where there is a safe harbour. Our slay here was very short; for the next day we proceeded to Christiana or Oiflo, the capital city of one of the five governments of that kingdom. flee the company's agents gave us a very cordial reception; and one of them, a merchant in very great seem, to whom I was in some measure known, behaved to me with prodigious civility; for he not only satisfied my curiosity, by pointing to m every thing that was worth stewing, but commanded one.of his servants, who spoke tolerable French, to attend me in a small excursion into the country the day following. We rode to a ]aloe viage called Wifby, situated between two hills, about nine miles from Christiana, the houses here of are built of wood, and covered with turf; they are very low, without either iron work or window; except a. lattice on the top, whereby the light readmitted.
admitted. It is necessary to observe here, to pre. vent the two from being confounded, that the ca. vital of Gothland, here the famous marine laws were made, bears the same denomination the peasants of Norway are all fisher-men, and slaves to the nobility, but remarkably'fimple and hospitable; the women, who look after the cattle, of which here is great plenty, are very handsome, though red haired, and fond of strangers: they are also excellent housewives, and in general make their own family cloth. The country affords good game, as elks, stags, roe-bucks, boars, goats, rab. bits, hares, otters, lines, and wild-cats of various colours, together with good flore of wild-fowl, Norway is a mountainous country, affording good pasturage and excellent wood, but very little grain: however, the inhabitants are well supplied from other parts. In our return to Christiana, we met one of the neighbouring gentleman with two ser. wants and a pack of dogs, going upon an elk chace; and understanding from my attendant, whom he knew, that I was a stranger, he invited us to par take of his diversion; to which 1 was not averse, having time enough to spare. After riding with him about a mile we met his huntsman, together with more of his servants, and ten or twelve boors, who led us three miles farther into a wood full of bushes, at the entrance of which we dismounted and gave our horses in charge to one of his grooms the game had been prepared the preceding day by this gentleman's vassals; in consequence of which, we had scarce gone forty yards .before we perceived an elk, who had not advanced fr when he drop. pet down dead, being seized, ab they told me, with the failing-sickness, from whence they derive their name of elk, which signifies a miserable creature; and thus it seems they often fall at the beginnings oi
of the chace, without affording the least sport. Had not this accident happened, I believe we hould have found it hard to have run him down; for we were more than two hours in pursuit of the next, which I do not think we hould ever have catched, had he not been also seized with a fit; however, he killed two of the dogs with his fore-feet, which were extremely regretted by their owner, who there upon quitted the chace. He sent home for a cart to draw off the game, and insisted on our going with him to his castle, which was about four miles from Wifby; it was an odd sort of building, void of elegance or table; but our entertainment was plentiful and agreeableness my departure my host presented me with the left legs of the elks, assuring me that they were an excellent cure for the falling-sickness; but I un deceived him with respect to his opinion, by ob. serving to him, that this muss be a vulgar error, since it was a disorder of which this beast could not cure himself; and he was induced to own that he had long suspected the truth of this medicine's being effectual, but he was now convinced that it was not, as well as induced to believe that eating this animal's flesh communicated the disorder; and many instances could be produced of the ill effects of such food.,We lay at this gentleman's seat all night, and after breakfast next morning returned to Christiana, whence after a few days stay we hoisted sail for Bergen, which is one of the best harbours in Eu copeland wherein we were commissioned partly to unlade: in our passage we were becalmed for five days, during which we catched as much fish as served us for a long time after.,C H- A P.
CHAP. II. A ief-rit'ics If Brghsn, an d its peculiar trash: ,,cfrta:n ccm.npny of merchants uhinlmraliy regulate in het twin: or author reaches Dr-cntheirn asd Jets oat sr the copper and silver mines: hi, enter. t!:i.-7nnt There: he descends into a mine, which i di-r'bsd: irn danger f a fit: the regulations and p similes f the m nrs: tale hospitality of a peafaS: he returns io Droztheiin. nd continues his 'voyage no-ihbcard : ibe i.t's crew purchase a-wind of a rc jtrer. B ERGHEN i divided into the upper and lower,town : the latter is built on the lea-shore, the former higher up on the rocks: it is a large town, and a place of great trade, having formerly been an archbishop's see; but it has not been acknowledged such since the reformation, which prevails here as well as in the king of Denmark's other domini ors. The bishop's palace was given to the Hans towns for the residence of their antient merchants, so long as they continued single; but if they marry, they are fill obliged to remove. The merchants are called monks, altho' they labour under no other restrictions, and the wa-espouses bear the name of coffers. Bergen was formerly under the jurisdiction of a convent: the principal branch of its trade is herring, cod, and ftock-fifb, which fell well in Muscovy, Sweden, Poland, Denmark, Germany, and other parts of Europe.,Part cf our lading being consigned at Dronthein, to t,: fiuvevor of tie copper and silver mines, fer the use cf the men u ho laboured in the mines, ard consisting Fpinc:pa-! cf bread and beer, we hkif.d sail for that place, with the wind at south-ewes,
west, but were several days becalmed, and catched a vas quantity of klip-fifh,- which we barrelled up, having much more than we could consume; they are a species :of cod, and called klip-fifh in Germa ny, which signifies rock-fish, from their always lying on or under the rocks when we arrived at Drcntheim, we applied to the surveyor to unmade us as on as he could; but he told us, it was what he could not do, there being a particular officer belonging to the mines where he now was, whose proper office-was to fu printed the provisions signed for the labour. hers, however, he offered to send a messenger on horseback for him, whom I obtained permission to accompany. The road to the mines was fo-very rugged, that we could not reach farther than Speckled that day, which is only eighteen miles from Drontheim. After leaving Speckled, we passed thro' a wood of considerable length, abounding with bears, wolves, and lines, which render it very dangerous. The next night we came to our journey's end, and lodged at the forges, where, according to custom we were entertained by the people who have the care of the mines, with tobacco, beer, and brandy ; and our howl was o very hospitable, that there was no avoiding going drunk to bed. Here I became acquainted with one of the officers of the mines who spoke French, and who promised, on mr expressing a desire to enter them, to be my guide. The next morning, the messenger with whom I came hither set out for Drontheim, together A'ih a person proper to clear the hip; and I break sailed with the officer who spoke French, and a matter-miner at ivhofe house I lay, and who pro. mired to be my guide all the way back you may be sure we had a good breakfast, for the Norwegians are very fond of good cheer as-,ctr
ter which we walked about sixty paces from th forges before we reached the mouth of one of tl mines, being on the top of a high mountain: it was erected a machine, not unlike a crane, turn. ed by two great wheels, each guided by a man, and by this means the ore is drawn up. Here the mil. ter-miner and I, being. fixed in a wooden bucket, whereto our hands were bound with iron gant!ei were let down fifty fathom deep never was there seen a prosper more ionic than this, nor a truer piAure of the infernal re. lions; the rugged caverns, the melancholy flank that blazed every were round, and creatures tha had a nearer resemblance to fiends than to men, al united to impress the soul with terror. The miner were defied in black leather coats of mail, and mufflers of the same fastened round their head, jut under their eyes, which reached down to the breast; they also have leather aprons on. They have all their different occupations; for while some are em played in dividing the ore from the mass, others search for new veins of metal, and others go in search of those torrents of water, which often burl through the earth unexpectedly and overwhelm them all ; but however, if these are foreseen, the mi chief may-be sometimes prevented the mater-miner imagining I was near being seized with a cold fit, which is commonest these places, rung a bell, which being a signal for the people above to draw us up, we on ascended with the same facility that we had gone down. Never was fresh air more welcome to me, than after bav. ing breathed the unwholsome damps of this sub, terranean dvelling.,This day I dined with the officer who spoke French; he was a man polished by his having travelled and entertained me with great generosity After dinner he ordered horses to go to the filve,nines
mines; he introduced me to the surveyor, who pre seated each of us with a large glass of brandy, and then treated us with beer and tobacco; after which he walked with us to the forges, which were about a mile from his house; and we on after reached the mouth of a mine, down which we went in the same manner as we had done in the-copper niines,.of which every thing I saw here was a counterpart The miners never work in winter; and in spring and autumn they only labour three hours before, and three hours after dinner; but in summer they work four hours in the morning and five in the as afternoon: the rest of their time they spend very mer rely, being fond of dancing and carousals, and hav ing violins, hautboys, and other musical instruments to enliven their spirits; this they are well able to support, being paid a silver crown a day whether they work or not. I had an opportunity of seeing them engaged in their pastimes, the simplicity of which gave me much pleasure. These mines yield a considerable revenue to the king of Denmark; and there is a good deal of silver coin ed on the spot as it is raised. Having finished my review of every thing that was worth inquiring into, we went home with the surveyor, who having-treated us with the usual col nation of brandy, beer, and tobacco, which was succeeded by a plentiful supper, we went to bed. In the morning, the maker-miner and I having re turned thanks to our host for his kind entertain ment, went back to the copper mines; whence, having-taken leave of the officer who spoke French, I pursued the road to Drontheim, accompanied by the mafler-miner.,Night overtaking us before we had reached eight miles on our way, we were forced to quarter in the next village, at the house of a peasant, who,thinking
thinking himself highly honoured by the accident did his utmost to make the' place agreeable to us: he first treated us with beer, tobacco, and brandy distilled from malt; after which he gave u for sup. per a couple of pheasants and a hare, which head lately killed. When supper was ended, we wal. lowed in brandy and beer-and were enveloped clouds of tobacco. The master-miner was at lad made dead-drunk; at which the peasant loudly expressed his satisfaction, and made what haste he could to put himself into the same condition: not was I much better; it is the cuf-om of the country, and not to be avoided among all ranks of peep!; they have no notion of there being any pleasures in society that don't center in drunkenness and de. debauchery. When we had finished our dose, we lay down upon clean straw, which was spread up. on the flour for that purpose, and slept till morn. ing; when I, being the first up, made the boor's son by signs understand that I wanted the horses to be got ready, being resolved, if possible, to reach Drontheim that night. As soon as I saw that they were saddled, I roused my companion and his holst when having once more eat and drank more than I would chuse to make a daily price of doing, and taken our lat leave of the peasant, we mounted ani rode of, reaching Drontheim before the cole of day.,In two days after I arrived here, the flip, ay ing cleared out and taken in her sock of provision and other necessaries, set sail with a fair wind to continue her ovate to the northward. After a few dvs we were becalmed under the arctic polar circle; and some of our crew having gotten into their heads, that the inhabitants of the neighbour inr coast, like those of Finland, could rule the che ment . and dispose of winds, our captain sent his boat shore with the mate, whom I chose nut of,curiollly
curiosity to accompany, to purchase a fair gale, a commodity which we certainly needed much just at that ime. We landed at the firs village we saw, and the mate, who could-speak a little of the language of the country, on enquired out the chief necromancer of whom he would have bought a gale that would lait to Mountmanfkinere, but his power, as he said himself, (lid not extend farther than the promontory of Rouxella: however, the mate knowing that reach. ing so far on would be of some advantage to us, invited the wizard to go on board with him, and bargain with the captain, which he did, promising him an immediate fair wind to Rouxella; when having tied to our fore-mast a woollen rag, about half a yard long and a nail broad, whereon were three knots, with orders to untie the second, and then the third in case the wind slackened; and be ing paid ten kronen, or thirty-fix shillings, and one pound of tobacco, he went ashore in a little fishing boat which had brought him on board. He was not long departed before the captain, ac cording to direction, untied the first knot, and im mediately there blew a brisk gale from the south west, which drove us at a great rate, at leaP thirty leagues beyond Maelftroom, a- whirlpool in the Norwegian ea, fatal to many vessels, and this makes those pilots who know the coast to keep eight or ten leagues out to sea, to avoid not only that, but several other eddies that are nearer the fire, as eil as the rocks of Oftraford.,The wind now beginning to veer a little to the northward, the captain loosened the second knot, upon which the gale fettled as before, and waited on us till we reached Rouxella: after we had pas fed that promontory our needle turned back half an inch, and had not our pilot been a very know ing man, and well acquainted with the road, we,lliou!d
should certainly have lost our course. He shut [ the compass, and displayed a flag on the fore-top nat head, as a signal for the ships in company to follow our way. In this dilemma we sailed two days, the pilot going by his ea-charts; but the third day, being very distant from Rouxella, the needle of the compass recovered its proper tone, from whence we inferred that we approached the North Cape.,By this time the wind began to fail us, on which the captain untied the third knot, and there sprung up a smart breeze at north-east but it soon im proved into a most dreadful tempest. We were now obliged to take in all our sails, and drive be fore the wind under bare poles, not without imagining this a just judgment inflicted upon us for infernal commerce; however, as we were some leagues from the coast of Danish Lapland, we were in no danger of driving ashore, and did not fufpea our being upon any rocks till we struck upon one: as soon as we felt the shock we gave ourselves up for lost, and every man fell to his prayers; when, by great good luck, there came a high rowling sea, which carried us clearly over it: the flip had how ever received some little damage; two or three planks in her hold were bulged, and he sprung a small leak above the keel, at which the water came in fast, and obliged us to ply the pump without in permission, or else we should not have bee able to have lived long upon the surface: however, the storm was pretty well over, and having a fair gale we resolved to make the first port to refit.,C H A P
C H A P. III. An endeavour to account naturally for the. northern' people filling winds: the hip arrives on-the coat of. If/ardhas,. and.puts into Varanger to refit,: the re' Option the crew met with: the religion, superstition, food and manners of the Laplanders lightly touched upon: the women free of their favours: the dress of the people described: the black cat sometimes taken for a familiar: the authorised fine of the hip's c,'ew set out on a journey into the hbenrt of the cun- . try. . ! To remove that surprize which must uhdoubt- . ely affect the reader, from being told of the supernatural power of these northern people, manifested in the sale of winds, it is-necessary to remark, that, like all other species of witchery and necromancy, this has its foundation in fraud and imposition; those who deal in it study the weather, very accurately, and are from confidant observation able to foresee the variation of the winds for several days to come; in making a bargain they are careful never to come to a conclusion, till they per clive the certain sign of the approach of the wind that is wanted; and when our supposed conjurer affirmed that his power reached no farther than Rouxella, he really meant no more than that his observations were bounded by that particular point, and if he should have attempted to have gone far ther, his credit was at slake, not being certain of the winds there by any signs whatever. This ac count we have received from some intelligent per sons who resided a while in Iceland, where they are famous for this kind of traffic, and dispose of winds more freely than elsewhere, because this is an sand, and being every way open to the sea, they're
are more at liberty upon it than elsewhere to in. sped the variation of the winds this species of knowledge is confined among a few people; who pretend to dispose of the wind as of their own proper merchandise, whereby they keep their neighbours in subjection, and put so. reigns under tribute; nor are these strange no. tions and diabolical proceedings to be wondred at, in a climate where the mills of ignorance still pre. vail, and erudition has been scarcely able to dart one lucid beam ; but we always find such absurd. ties wither as reason and religion advance, for before them barbarity and error always retire.,As the harbours and creeks are almost inaccef. bible, from the multiplicity of rocks that fine the chaff, we were obliged to sail two days longer be fore we could make a proper port. However, at last we reached the coast of Wards, the chief town of the Danish Lapland, where there is a garry. son of two companies of soldiers belonging to the king of Denmark.,The col:eeor of the duties imposed on foreign. hers trading to or from the White Sea judging us to be Danes by our colours, and our saluting the castle, permitted us to pass on to Varunger, without searching us. The country all about seemed to be very wild, and no man on board had the smallest knowledge of it: the captain, impatient to find a place to refit in, as ell as to obtain one informa tion relative to a part he had never known before, ordered out the long-boat, and taking with him eight men well armed, rowed towards the town, where he arrived in about half an hour. He found the port very convenient, and the place populous, but the inhabitants in a sort of consternation at the sight of foreigners: they gave him small encourage' ment for trade, but readily offered to assist in refit ting the hip.,The
Next day we entered the port which is very commodious, and discharged all our ballast, it be ig only sand, shipped to counterpoise one bales of cloth and bundles of tobacco, with which we de signed to have traded. The goods were locked up in a warehouse near the water-side, and a proper watch let to guard them. To some of the principal inhabitants we presented rolls of tobacco' which being more welcome to them than gold, secured us their friendship: in return for these presents, they entertained us with dry fish that serves them instead of bread, some rein-deer flesh, a food in my mind. not extraordinarily delicate, together with some bear's flesh, and that of other animals, to the nature of which we were strangers: they also treated us with fresh fish, boiled without salt, and served up with frehl oil, or a sour liquor common among them) y way of sauce. Their dainties not suiting our tale, we went for beef and biscuit from on board, ver which, and a can of liquor, we made our elves merry; but our viands seemed as insipid to hem as theirs were to us. ' Their drink, which I have just now mentioned s four, consists of an infusion of juniper-berries, nd a grain like gentiles, very common here, though' ot noticed by any botanist that I can remember. rom this grain they alfodiflil a sort of brandy that intoxicates as on as ours. Their common drink hey preferred to our beer or brandy, ithough'they accepted and drank freely of both. The religion of Lapland is Lutheranism'; but southey have clergy amongst them, whose business tis to infra the people, they are nevertheless very ignorant, retaining many ido!atrouscufioms, and f6 perfidious, that if in the morning they mee it's ny ting which has had the character of being il'- Manned, they return home and neglc all buineÂ£ief or that day; nay, the fisherman will abandoned ' VOL. V. - I tlcam,
stream, and retire with his nets, if he happens bring up only one fish at a time, which is reckon. ed a terrible prognostic of ill luck, and misfortunes near at hand. Both the men and women are low in stature, but they are strong and native; their visages broad, and their noses flat. Their eyes are small like hogs eyes, and their eye-lids make them look as if they were blear-eyed. Their complex. ons in general are swarthy; besides, they are rough, rude, and lustful; and the women, if they can do it without their husbands knowledge, prostitute themselves to all comers, without much delicacy the women wear on their heads a coif, not un. like those worn in Norway, made of coarse canvas, nor is their linen much better; their hair is gene. rally twisted into two rolls, which hang down on each side: they wear a ruff of the breadth of eight fingers; and their cloths and stockings are either coarse cloth or rein-deer's kin, with the hair turn td outward; and their shoes something like those worn by the peasants in France, are made without straps, of fish (kin with the scales on.,The mens coats, which are short, and reach not much lower than the hips, as well as their breeches, stockings, and hat, are made of the rein deer' skin with the hair turned outward; their hats, r rather bonnets, are edged with a strip of eithi grey or white fox skin. Some of them wear bos of fish skin, so neatly twitched, that the teams ar scarcely visible; and their dwellings differ ve little from those about Christiana, the light been admitted by a small hole in the top of thehu They lie like the other Laplanders;. and ind most of the northern inhabitants, in a promiscuous manner, husbands and wives, sons and daughter masters and servants, stretch themselves with much ceremony, in the middle of the apartments
n bears skins, which when they rise are folded carefully, and laid by till night. Were I superstitious, the great black cat that at ends on every family, with which the mailer of he house talks by the hour, as if it were a reason able creature, and which accompanies him upon whatever party he makes, either of filing, hunt g, c. would have confirmed me in the opinion at these people were conjurers, and I hould have denned poor puss for a familiar spirit. When we had unlade the flip we hauled her lore, and found the people of Varanger very lady to give us all the distance they could; for, ins much damaged, and there being a necessity f having timber to refit her, they readily helped , in bringing what we wanted from a neigh during mountain. As it was very probable that repairing the vessel ould take up one time, the supercargo proposal journey into the country, to try what corn oddities were to be had, to two of my lip-mates, ad myself; and we readily consented: I confers hat the desire of gratifying my curiosity was more prevalent with me than that of the improvement of fierce. Having supplied ourselves with salt beef, pork, nd biscuit, by way of provision, with cloth and ohacco to trade, we set forward on the i2th of ay, conducted by three of the inhabitants of Va anger, whom we followed over high mountains, nd thro' thick woods, without meeting any thing remarkable, till about four o clock in the afternoon, hen we perceived two white bears of prodigious bigness approach, as we thought, to devour is; but our guides laughed at the terror which hey saw impressed on us, and assured us we need lot be afraid, for if we kept our arms ready for fence we hould not be attacked; and we sounds that
that they said true; for no sooner had we prepared cur fuzees than the bears fled with precipitation: whether they were frightened at the fire which truce from our flints in preparing our pieces, or smelt our powder, I shall no: take upon me to determinedly hour before night, as we descended a noun. tain, we perceived at a distance a herd of beasts, not unlike flags, and these, our guides told us, were rein-deer. Soon after this we came to a vil. lage, which consisted of about a dozen straggling houses, at one of which we took up our lodging-being extremely glad of repose, for we were hearth. ly tired; having marched a long journey with our luggage at our backs. We presented our hot with a piece of roll-tobacco, for which he ex pressed himself much obliged, and in return laid before us his brandy-bottle, together with fine dried fill, and rein-deers.fleih dressed without salt, which, not much relishing, we gave to our guide, and regaled on what we brought with us; after which we went to sleep upon bears skin, after the fashion of:the country. In the morning we bar. tered with our hols and several of his neighbour, cloth and tobacco for skins of wolf, fox and white squirrel, besides four suits of the deer-skin garments, which are very warm clothing having secured his friendship with the presents tobacco, he very readily offered to affirm us with some rein-deer to carry us forward in our journey; and for this purpose he blew a horn just at his door, at the sound of which fourteen or fifteen of theft beasts came running towards him; from amon which he chose out six, and yoked each of the to a sort of sledge shaped like a gondola; it trail ed upon the ground, and was fixed upon a equal frame, to which were fattened two poles longer tha the sledge by at least two feet. Here we discharge '
Vi~~~~~~~~~LV~P~~ =~ (,Ã³~ "
ed two of our guides, keeping him who was con versant in'the languages of the different Laplanders; and putting' our cargo of provision and merchandise into one sledge, each of us lay down on an other, covered with a bear's skin, and thrusting our arts up to the shoulders, in two leathern girth's placed at the back of the sledge to keep us steady; besides which, we were furnished with a long slick, at the end of which was a' wrong ferula to balance the sledge, in case it should be in danger of overturn ing upon sums of trees or stones lying in the road.,Whern we were ready to set out, our host muttered one words in the ears of our cattle, which afterwards understood from our guide were directions whither they were to go; for so credulous are there poor wretches as to think the beasts under tant them. However, so accustomed are they to this auricular salute, that when our host had whispered all the six, they set off with us, going at a prodigious rate, without keeping any beaten path, and never halted till about seven in the evening, when they brought us to a village between two hills, on the border of a large lake; and here at the fourth house they thought proper to Rand till, beating their feet hard againft'the ground to signify their arrival, as I suppose, for the master of the loue, and one of his people came out at the noise; and having unharnessed our cattle and released us, they administered to each of us a brimmer of bran dy, poured from a juniper can, of which wood all their vessels were made; this. it seems was to revive our spirits, our guide having informed them that we were much frightened at being drawn so very swiftly, not being used to such sort of travelling. The rein-deer is of the size and colour of a flag, with cloven feet like theirs, and hoofs as large as oxen; their horns re higher, but have not so ma "Y sprouts as those of the ag, and the females, likes 3 cows,
cows, yield milk, of which the Laplanders make good butter and cheese; they live upon moss, which grows every where in this country, and are yoked with a leathern collar to the hait of the sledge, al. most as a horse is to the chaise chap. IV. Te people cf a Village, and their manner of lying de.,fr:bed ; t. a:co a very valuable commodity the au. ther and his co ipary trade for f-ins with fame fc. ces; the ceremonies of a Lapland funeral; they have aJolen interview wish the wife of a jealous Lap. lander. Prs H E people here were dressed like the of,Varanger, except that the women wore bv::nets like men; and the houses were small and low, covered with the bark of a tree, and admit. ting the light from the top. They seemed more barbarous than those we had last conversed with; however, we purchased their protection by giving each man about two inches of tobacco i and our host being bribed with a piece rather larger, was our assured friend. Their language was very different from that of Varanger, from which we were now very distant, having travelled more than thir ty leagues that day, this being the territory of Mourmanfkeimore. We supped on our own pro vision, and lay all night on bears skins as usual here we trucked our cloaths for others more long and commodious, and bartered our tobacco for one hundred grey squirrels, a fur much esteemed in Denmark. Next day the people provided us with six other sledges, and having treated us with bran dy, and wished us a good journey at parting, our deer having received their instructions as before,,fled
fed with incredible swiftness, and did not flop till three in the afternoon, when they brought us tota village of eight cottages, pleasantly situated by a wood side on the top of a hill ; here we saw no in habitants, the reason of which, as our guides told us, was, that it belonged to the Kilops, one of the wildest Lapland nations, the people of which fly from strangers, and subsist entirely on huntinz.,We baited our deer with moss, which grew here very plentifully, and refreshed ourselves with biscuit and beef, and a dram of the brandy with which the people of the last village had furnished us, while our interpreter dined upon venison and fish. After about an hour's delay, our guide en devoured to make our deer go forward; but he found it very hard to persuade them, tho' no Lap lander whatever knew hill to manage them better this village was their usual stage, and they had no inclination to quit it ; in order to induce them to it, he used a hundred ridiculous and superstitious ceremonies; he retired to the wood, where he muttered charms, and then whispered them; but he was obliged to repeat his orders over and over before they chose to understand him: at lait he prevailed upon them, and they proceeded, but not so swiftly as hitherto. As we turned down the mountain's brow, we met four Kilops, who turn ed their sledges off the road, and took another to avoid meeting us. In less than half an hour we entered a long wood, were we saw nothing, but our ears were dinned with terrible howling and lamentations, for which we knew not how to ac count, nor did we flop to enquire into the cause having descended another hill, we arrived at a little village, where our beasts flopped just where they thought sir, and gave the usual signal with their feet, at which the mailcr of the cottage made his appearance, whose friendship we having follicit-,H4 ed
ed with a piece of tobacco, he made us welcome; and having supped, we lay down to reit as we were wont; and indeed, this day, being May 4th, we were sufficiently tired. The next morning we were told that we had travelled forty leagues the preceding day; but I am apt to believe there was some mistake in the reckoning, forty Lapland leagues being equal to one hundred and sixty French, and five leagues a-day on horseback is thought good riding.,Our guide informed us that we were now in the Muscovite Lapland, and having desired him to en. quire if the inhabitants had any thing to barter for cloth and tobacco; they produced fables, squirrels, and foxes king of divers colours, for which we loon bargained, giving mostly tobacco in exchange. When we had finished our business we sat down to drink with them; and tho' they were not quite so brutal as some others with whom we had deal. kings, they were rude, slovenly, and extremely inde. cent. Our host here furnished us with as many sledges as we wanted, and we set off with great speed, through different unbeaten wastes, and did not meet even the sign of an habitation, till about six in the evening, when we reached two huts, the residence of two Kilops, whom we saw fly, toge ther with their families, as we approached. About eleven at night, having made a most fatiguing jour. ney, we came to a large village at the bottom of a hill, by a river side, in the middle of which our cattle halted, and the master of the house, which we entered, treated us with great civility, lighting up a fire in the middle of the hut to warm us, and re gazing u with brandy, salt fish, fait venison, faltbutter and milk: this was the best fare we had found since our setting out, and we should have supped like princes had we had any bread left, but our flore was unhappily consumed. This was the fidR,salt
fait we had found used in these territories, and our guide would not meddle with it, but eat some fresh venison that he had brought with him.,In the morning we found they had nothing to trade with, neither could they supply us with sledges; so we crossed the stream, designing to proceed to Kola We came in a little time to a- other village where we were furnished, and'arrived about noonday Kola, a little city-about ten leagues from the North Sea, built by a river side, having very high mountains on the south, Mourmanikei- more to the west, and large desarts and forests to the east; it consists of one indifferent free; the houses are wood, handsomely roofed with sith-bone, and on the top there is a hole left, as in other parts of Lapland, to let in the light. The inhabitants of this place, and indeed of Muscovy in general, are very jealous, and lock up their wives on the approach of sir angers the person with whom we lodged at Kola, took all our cloth off our hands, and gave us, by way of barter,. two lynx skins finely spotted, some er mines, three dozen of white fox (king, and ha's a dozen of Wyetfras, an animal not unlike a badger, but with longer rougher hair, of a very dark red colour, and a tail like a fox; he also supplied us vi h provision. enough to last us to Varanger, and sledges to the side of the river we had so lately pas fed, in return for some odd ells of cloth that we had remaining.,In the morning, some of the town's people en. quired'whether we had any tobacco left, and being answered in the affirmative, soon brought in furs enough to purchase all we had, except seven or eight rolls that we kept to pay our way back to Varanger, for tobacco is more valued by them than money, and a piece of the length of one's finger is preferred to a crown piece; for which leiofn any persons who chuse to travel this wilds 5 ' and
and unfrequented country, ought to flock them. lelyes well therewith; since it will procure them rein-deer, sedges and other necessaries much soon. er than coin. The kings of Denmark and Sweden, and the czar of Muscovy, have taxed it severely; there being collectors fettled in every frontier town, to gather the imposts upon it. When our business was over, we sat down and made merry with our chapman, over some brandy, which they tossed off as we do beer about two o'clock in the afternoon we signified to our holt, that it was time for us to depart, on which he provided us with rein-deer and sedges al mot in a minute, and packed up our furs for us very tightly, furnishing us with biscuit, ginger-bread, and salted rein-deer venison, besides a finally runt. let of brandy; we set out, and, in my opinion, travelled much easier to the river than we had hitherto done. We on crowed over, and went directly to our old quarters, where our landlord, in hope of getting more tobacco, received us very joyfully; he immediately presented us a cup of brandy, and had we chosen it, would have got us sledges and deer that instant to carry us forward; but we preferred resting with him for that night, there being no village for several leagues from his habitation: hearing our determination, he asked us to accompany him to the funeral of one of his neigh hours, who had been about four hours dead this invitation was what we were extremely glad of, having heard much talk of their funeral ceremonies, therefore we accepted of it, and ac companied him to the house of the deceased; where we saw the corpse, which, all to his hands and face, was wrapped in linen, removed by six of his mot intimate friends, from the bear shin whereon he had expired, into a wooden coffin, with some brandy, dried fish ad venison, to sub.,ftd
fit him on his journey to heaven; in one hand they put some money to pay the keeper of paradise gate, in the other a certificate signed by the priest, and directed to St. Peter, informing him that the bearer had been a good christian, and ought to be admitted into heaven; and at the head of the coffin was placed an image dressed like a pilgrim, which they called St. Nicholas, being one of the seven deacons mentioned in the Ass of the Apofiles.,This is a saint greatly reverenced in all parts of Muscovy, who is supposed a particular friend to the dead; wherefore his image is always fixed near a corse instead of a crucifix. They next kindled a fire of fir-tree roots at a distance from the body, weeping bitterly, and expressing their sorrow by the most extravagant noise; after which they went round it several times in procession, de landing the reason of his dying ? whether he was out of humour with his wife ? whether he stood in need of meat, drink, or cloaths ? if he had not succeeded when filling, or lo!} his game when. hunting? After asking these and a thousand other questions equally frivolous, they fell to their scream ing lamentations again, while an attendant priest every now and then sprinkled the corse and the mourners alternately with consecrated water being quite weary of these barbarous rites, we returned to our quarters-leaving our host behind us, to complete the ceremony; on our entering the cottage, we saw a woman retiring hastily, whom our guide pursued and brought from the place of her retreat; it proved to be the wife of our host, who had stolen out of the chamber whereto her husband had confined her; n our entering,, he came very willingly among us, when she found her husband was absent, and examined us all attentively one after another, appearing to be good humoured, and well pleased with us ; when she-had ftisfiedlier,H, 6 curiosity
curiosity he sat down with us, and shewed us some little sort of embroidery of her own doing, which I think was very pretty. After having tasted our provisions, but particularly cur ginger-bread, which she seemed to like, and drank two or three glalTe; of brandy, the retired, for fear of her husband's. turn; who would certainly have resented her hay. ing taken such liberty, had he catched her among us. When he came home, he infused on our eat. ing and drinking with him, after which we smoaked a pipe, and as our guide would not touch any thing that was salt, he was furnished with a ear. coliop, which he broiled on the coals, and some dried filh.,Next morning, being the 8Sth of May, werore early, and were con furnished with convenient ledges, and excellent rein-deer, which carried us t the rate of six leagues an hour; we met in cur wa, a Laplander who was going to hunt, he had fkai.cs on, a':ove seven feet and a half long, only our angers broad, and flat at the bottom, with the help of which he made as much way over the :nov , which often lies unmelted till Midsummer, .s we did with cur carriages ; his dress was deer. lin embroidered wth tinsel, and he had a girdle of the same rt round his waist, a large quiver at his back, a dart in one hand, and a bow in the other, with a great bias' cat following at his heels. e kept up with us till .e had passed the mountain on which we met him, and then struck down an. ether rcad.,C H A P,
C H A P. V. A general character of the men and women of Lap-eland, and of the province in general; their beasts and birds, but particularly the white crow taken notice of; the flip sails from ranger, gains sight cf Spitsbergen, and is safely incommoded with ice, but at length gets clear; they put into port, and the author makes another journey in land.,AY the zif, we arrived safely at Varanger, about nine o'clock at night, having made the same Rages, and met with nothing extraordinary in our return, which took up three days; and from what I was able to collect, from observing the man news and disposition of the people, in my progress thro' Lapland, I may venture to affirm them, how ever ignorant and wretched, extremely honest, and abdicated from all notions of fraud; they are but little inclined to war, for if they come to un defiant that their sovereign, as the king of Den mark or Sweden, or the czar of Muscovy, wants soldiers from among them, they quit their dwell kings and skulk in the woods, to avoid being forced into the service. They pitch the dart with great dexterity, will hit a mark of the size of a crown piece at the distance of thirty paces; and in hand ling their bow and arrow they are o very nice, that they can hoot a bird on the wing, in what ever part they think proper the women of the Muscovite Lapland, who a:: kpt under greater reflritfiuns than those of the other Lapland, make all the cloaths of their ht.ufnds and family, which they embroider round the edges with tinsel thread drawn between their teeth to a surprizing fineness, They work very,neatly,
-neatly, are handsome, well hoped, and good hu. poured; and so extremely lewd, that were they not narrowly watched, they would give themselves up to the first comer they have plenty of fowl, as geese, ducks, and pullets, in this part of the world, that feed either upon the grain of which they make their drink, or dried fish. Here is also a bird of prey of a deep pearl colour, as large as an eagle, but resembling it otherwise only in beak and claws; his head is like that of a cat, and his eyes are red and spark. ling; he only picks up hares and other smalL game. Moths of the beasts of Lapland are white, as wolves, foxes, hares, &c. but what is very fur. prizing, their crows, their feet and bill excepted, are also white. They have a small cur, which is a good mouser, and watches for his little prey, on which he feeds like a cat; there, though very ugly, are held in great esteem; they are not pas sing a foot long and four inches high; the whole head, except their ears, which prick up like a wolf's, is formed like that of a rat, its tail curls, and its hair, which is a light yellow, is very rough, and generally stands on end; the fish which serves them instead of bread is called roff; it is firm, substantial, and, if you except the fat, well tasted, it has no bones, is very broad, and about two or three ells long; they have plenty of other species of fish, which they commonly eat boiled; and it is remarkable, that notwithstanding their natural antipathy to salt, they rather chuse to boil their meat in salt water, if they live near the sea, than in freshen two or three days after our return, the cap tain had repaired the flip's damages, and took in his lading and ballast; in the mean time our crew plied the inhabitants with brandy and tobacco, by way of bribe, left their conjurations hould influence,the
the winds to oppose us. We set sail from Varanger May the 26th, with a gale as much in our fa your as we could possibly desire, which the sailors attributed to the friendship of the Laplanders; but the breeze Lifting in a short time after, we brought to under the island of Wards, and the commandant of the castle knowing whose were, came off to us in a shallop, and we entertained hint to his satisfaction, the wind fettling to a point, the infusing day,: we proceeded on a north-east course, with our sails all loose; and in three days entered a latitude where we had no night, the fun being always on one side or the other of us, and never finking below the horizon. May the 3r1s, the high lands of Spitsbergen being in sight, the wind blew so hard from the north, that we were obliged to sand in for the shore for shelter's sake, under an east-south-east course; for the three following days we were so incommoded with ice, which struck violently on every side of us, that we were afraid of foundering; this induced us to try to get under the protection of a promontory to the east, but the wind conti ruing very high over at north, we steered for the coast of Borandia; and in some few hours entered a good bay, where we found a safe haven and wa ter at twelve fathom ; and here, to our great joy, we discovered lying at anchor our two consorts, from which we had been separated off Varanger by the storm; we hung out our flag and fired three guns as a salute, which they answered with six and 11 their colours displayed. The wind continued for twenty-four hours so high, that our long-boat could not be hoisted out, and we were impatient to know how they had escaped the tempest, for we had feared they were lost; however the gale slackening, we went on board one of them from which we learned that,they
they had been driven op the coast of Juhorfkt, where they bad like to have run ashore in three fathom water, the finding shifting. variously, and the ground being very rocky; but they had just time to tack about, under favour of a north-northeast wind, and kept out to sea, though not without some difficulty; however, after beating about for three days, they reached the bay where. we found thereafter mutual congratulations on account of see. ing each other safe, we held a council, wherein we debated of the manner in which we were to pro. need upon this coast; and it was at length deer. mined that a captain, a supercargo, two accompt. ants who understood the northern dialect, and I, together with twenty seamen well armed, shoud go ashore and take with us several days provisions, and one goods wherewith to traffic this agreement was immediately put in execu. tion; the company was ready, and the long-bos hoisted out, which soon conveyed us to land. Here we ascended a hill, to try if we could discover any habitation, but could not; on which we ad danced towards a neighbouring mountain, and here, among some bushes of thorns and briers, we spied five or six men, who fled as on as they saw us, and were quickly out of sight; we followed their track as well as we could mark it, and after a march of about two hours as we sloped down the mountain we saw some cottages at a distance, and near them thirty or forty men armed with darts and arrows, and seemingly ready to annoy us; bona nearer approach we were somewhat intimidated at the appearance, and were absolutely about retreat ing to our ships, knowing that nothing was to be had by an engagement with people so wild and barbarous, when one of the accountants freely of served to advance singly, and hail them as friends; and to inquire if they had goods and were. disposed
to traffic: for this purpose he approached them, carrying two rolls of tobacco and a small keg of brandy. When he came within hearing, the per son who appeared to be their chief hailed him in the Muscovite language, desiring to know our in mentions; and on being answered that we were mer chants come to trade with them, free from any hostile designs, they seemed satisfied and bade him draw nearer; on which he made signs for us, and we soon joined companies, agreeing very well, for they soon took all the brandy and tobacco we had brought shore with us off our hands, giving furs in exchange; and finding that they had a great quantity remaining, we persuaded them to bring them to the beach, telling them we had brandy and tobacco enough to barter on board ship. Boats soon came off from the vessels, in which we carried our chapman, who admired them easily, on board, whither they came, made each man a picfcnt of hnnlt nn inch of tobacco, and poured cut to each a brimmer of brandy, entertainment which made them, to all appearances, infinitely happy.,We purchased all the furs they had brought with them, which they told us was the only commodity of the country, and that if we chose to travel in land, they could conduct us as far as Siberia; there being rein-deer and sledges in which two people usually sat, the deer being stronger than those of Lapland; accordingly we agreed with them to be our guides backwards and forwards, promising them two rolls of tobacco, and a couple of quarts of brandy, for which they were to provide us with every thing necessary. 'Ihe bargain being confirmed, they were plied with another bumper of brandy each, and went ashore to get ready for the journey. The other natives, encouraged by the report of these, jamestown
down in troops to the water-side daily, not scrupling after some slight demur, to go on board the ships, where they sold their goods and were treated with brandy, the delight of their hearts; in return for which the; invited the sailors to their habitations they are not so tall as the Laplanders, they have large heads, sat broad faces, little pretty eyes, flat noses, and swarthy complexions; their legs are short and thick, nor are the women; a jot handsomer than the men, dressing in the same manner and go. ing through the same exercise; their cloaths are white bear-skin with the hairy side outward, and consists of a jerkin that reaches down to the knees, a strait pair of breeches, stockings, and a cap; with shoes made of the bark of a tree. They maintain themselves by hunting, roast all their meat, and eat it without salt; they have no bread but use fish in the place of it, and their common drink is water in which juniper-berries have been. left to steep till they rot; for they hive o notion of building it, nor du I think it a disagreeable beverage, at lead where there is nothing better to be-had.,Their huts are low and oval, covered with fil bones, and having no light but what comes in at the door, which is something like the mouth of an oven; they have no notion of religion, and live like beasts, without any reflections; they drink immoderately when they can get brandy, and the most valuable present you can make them is either a little brandy or tobacco, which you can change very advantageously for fur; nor do they seem to know the value of any thing else but money, of which they have some little among them word being brought that six sledges, being all they could get, were ready for us, we put into one to the amount of near four thousand pound i tobacco, brandy, gold, fiver, and copper; theft supercargo and I rode in one, sitting opposite to ore,anothe,
another, our accomptants,the two Borandian guides, and our seamen for we had one from each flip, were divided in three others, in the fifth was a sailor by himself with tobacco and brandy; and the sixth was stored with provisions and one other things. Being all fettled in our carriages, we set off, and ran at the rate of twenty leagues in bight hours, traversing plains, forests, dales, and mountains, without meeting a living creature ; this being a sort of flzge, we refreshed our cattle with moss, and otirfceles with beef and biscuit, while our Boran- dans, who neither liked our bread nor meat, fed upon dried fish, steeped in oil, after which we all drank at a neighbouring fountain, and crowned the banquet with a glass of brandy; which meal hav ing finished, we mounted again) and after a course of three hours, put up at a large well built village at the foot of a mountain, where we were obliged to divide our company one cottage not being sus anciently large to entertain us all; we slept on bear sins, and our brandy and tobacco procured us a good reception-after having slept for six or feet hours. we went among the inhabitants to trV;, and for money ano, 'error .pllr^ .d leven pair of fables, three hundred grey squirrels, and to do zen of ermin, besides wolf and white fox king to banco was notSo good a commodity here as on the coat, a circumstance which did not displease us.,C H A P.
CHAP. VI. The author continues his journey in land; foote rt,ricions laid on the sale of fables; a bark built without any iron-work great danger in falling fables to any but the czar ; the induJfly of the i. habitants of ['iorza; a voyage made in one of the country vessels to Pesaro, where the author and his cs,npany are heartily' entertained; and then Set out sir Siberian E only diversions and occupations of these people are hunting and fishing; in summer they eat their meat either boiled or broiled on the coals, and provide enough, during the season, to serve them in winter, preserving it.for that time, by drying it in the fun on the house top, cut in pieces; and this is the only dressing they bestow upon it. Their cottages are low and flat-roofed, covered with turf or branches of trees; they change their dwellings like the Kilops. They are Very stupid and brutal, without the smallest notion of religion, rei their rlnnth. are made or le white bear's skin, their coats coming below the calf of the leg, and having a broad girdle about ther waists; the only difference between the women who are dextrous hunters, and the men, is that their hair hangs in twits on their shoulders. At their backs they carry a quiver, and a stone that will cut like a razor hangs at their girdles ; their bow-strings are the parings of a tree, and they ge neatly bear a tough cudgel sharp at one end, by way of defence, in their hands when we had gotten what we could here, we each of us took a farewell glass of brandy and got into our sledges, our deer going at the rate of nine hours before they halted, which they did at a vil-alae:
take of a few huts, which were deserted; here we refreshed ourselves and our beasts for about three hours, and then proceeded on our journey. We were now fifteen hours without seeing any hum-n creature, or even the sign of one, which we over took three hunters on the brow of the hill. One of them was dressed after the Muscovite fashions in a long flowing robe, girt round his waist, with a girdle four inches broad; it was white, edged with a fine black, his cap was made of a black fox's kin, something like a sailor's bonnet, his breeches and' stockings were the skin of a rein-deer, and his' floes such as they wear at Varanger; the two other persons were equipped like us, in white bear skin, with the hair outside; these last carried at: their backs, furs, ermines, fables, wolf skins, whole' fox skins, and bear skins with the tails hanging to: them, the former only carried a dozen white crows, and seven fables tucked under his girdle ;- we were-a good deal surprized when he came up, to see our Borandian guide, after having talked to him 'for tome time, give hin his place in the sledge, and quit us. Neither the supercargo, who rode with me, 'nor I, could tell how to account for this complaisance; however, we pursued our journey for the space of another hour, without meeting the fmalleft'fign of inhabitants; at last having reached the top of a very high mountain, we perceived at the foot of it several houses built close together, forming a small town, and had a rifling view of the Tea. When we arrived at the village, we found from the re spect paid him by the people of it, and their rea dines to attend us at his order, that the person who had displaced our guide was a man of some note.,He received us into his house very kindly, and soit us some good skins, and then he sent his ser-avant
want about town to inquire if any person chose to traffic for tobacco and brandy. They brought us a good number of chapman, and we purchased above one thousand five hundred sins of all sorts, except fables; and there no body dare sell but of. fibers appointed to preside in public ware-houses ella. boiled by the czar's authority to manage this trap. sic; such as deal in it, without his especial licence, are ure of being severely punished; and if it is discovered that any persons have attempted to smuggle these skins, they forfeit all the goods then found in their cufsody.,Our cargo being too great for a sledge, our hoR lent us a small bark, for a certain reasonable quantity of tobacco and brandy, which he manned with some of his own servants; and with there, under the care of one of the sailors, who accompanied us, and was a skilful seaman, we did not fear her reaching our flip, though the lay above a hundred leagues distant. This bark was harp at each end and broad in the middle, like a gondola; it was entirely of wood, joined with pegs, and had not any sort of iron struck into it, not so much as a nail; its two anchors which were very weighty, were of wood, and in the middle of the vessel was a fir-tree mast, to which was fastened a square piece of coarse cloth, made from the rind of a tree, by way of sail; and the cordage was of the same stuff, as well as the cables, which were prettyfirong. There being no officer near, just as she was ready to put off, we privately slipped on board her thirty pair of fable-skins, for which we paid our holt ready cal, and immediately after he got under way. This was risking boldly, for had there been any searchers at hand it might have proved his ruin, because in that case he had not only been corporally punished, but also sent with all his family to work in the mines of Siberian The
The bark being out of sight, the supercargo, the accountants, and our landlord, sat down.to drink, while the two seamen and I walked out and took a view of the place, which was called Victoria; the situation being very pleasant, having two mountains rising on each side of it to the height of a league: the houses were built and covered very handsomely with fish bones, the crannies being well flopped with niofs, and in some places that were most ex posed to the wind, with turf very neatly laid; on the top of the house was a sort of lattice to admit the light, and the door, like what we had seen in other parts of the country, was built like the mouth of an oven the inhabitants were dwarfish, swarthy, flat nosed, and ill-featured; the women and children seemed all industrious, being busied in making sails, or firing-nets from the bark of trees, their needles being fill-bones, and others were employed with knives or hatchets in different branches of bu finest. And here, as our commodities were not half disposed of, and we were in a country abounding with furs, we held a council, wherein we debated in what manner we were now to dispose of our selves; and at length determined, as our commis sion for traffic and discovery was very extensive, to proceed as long as we found the trade good, and our cash, brandy, and tobacco. held out. Having ta ken this resolution, we went our guides back with the rein-deers and sledges, entrusting them with letters to the three captains, acquainting them with our success and resolutions ; and then with the help of our host of Vizor, who was kind enough to embark with us, we hired a bark to carry us to Pezora, the capital of a principality of the same name, on the north coast of the Muscovite ea,,which
which we reached in fifteen hours, having all the voyage kept close along liore.,The better sort of people among the Muscovites are rude, jealous, and quite unpolished ; I say the better sort, for there are scarcely any noblemen or gentlemen in the whole country; and for this rea. son we were not surprised to find a collector of the cufloms'who assumed the title of governor, the principal person in Pezora. We attended him at the case, where he entertained us with one fine old metheglin, which was followed by brandy and ginger bread, a sort of collation common all over Muscovy. He had the care of the czar's fables; and we bought all his fock, confiding of five summers, a simmer being fifty pair; for two of which, being all as black as jet, and the finest I ever saw, we gave him one thousand crowns; we had the red for eight hundred crowns. They were all sealed with the ducal arms of Russia. When we had paid him his money, he regaled us elegantly with roasted wind-fowl, young rein-deer venison, which tailed very well, and fresh fish, two boats having at our first arrival been ordered out to fish purposely for our entertainment. After this meal we sat eight fours over brandy ard metheglin. I hould certainly have been very drunk, had not I every now and then eat a biscuit; and indeed, to do the Muscovites justice, their bread is excellent. At length, being all overladen, we lay down on white bear skins, for here were no beds, and slept comfortably six cr seven hours; each of us, at our rising, being presented with a bumper of brandy after breakfast, an officer was ordered to attend us through the town, which progress we made with a double view of satisfying our curiosity, and trafficking with the people ; we on found numbers of chapman, and for four hundred ducats purchased one hundred and twenty wolf skins, and five hun-,9 died 9 . .,,
died fox-skins, all white, two hundred martens, two thousand grey squirrels, and forty-eight 'er mines, for which we paid one half in copper, be ing encumbered with it, and the rest in brandy and tobacco. All our goods were sent to the governor house, where they were packed up in bales, covered with the same sort of cloth as the sails of our bark, and Shipped on board a small vessel, un der the care of our accompany and three Brandies for whose fidelity, the governor, who had let it to us for ten ducats, palt his word; and over and above their wages which he was to pay them, we gave each man a piece of tobacco. When our vessel had sailed, having the wind at east south-east, we fell to drinking again, and the quantities which our host of Vizor swallowed were indeed surprising; we tuck to it for more than four hours, and then composed ourselves on bearing to rest as before. In the morning, hav ing requested it, we were furnished with seven fimg!e sedges and rain-deer to convey us to Siberia, beingfupplied with provisions enough to lall us'to Papinowvgorod, a city bordering on Pezora and Si beria, together with one of the governor's domes ticks, who was ordered to escort us to the next stage. being but seven leagues, and to. see that we were well used, all which services cost us only four ducks; and at parting the governor forced us to to's off five or six trimmers of brandy. We now got into our ledges, and travelled for four hours thro' intricate unbeaten roads, without meeting.any thing but four white bears, of an en odious size, which crossed us, and took refuge in 'a adjoining wood. In about two hours after, we flopped at a village, the inhabitants of which wre supposed were gone to hunt, as we found the cottages all empty. Here we alighted to refresh ourselves, and in the mean time half a dozen fa VOL. V. I miles
miles returned from the chace with pretty goo luck,- bringing ia with them six bear and fou wolf-skins, with two ermines and eight fables they would have fled when they saw us, had no the governor of Pezora's servant hailed them in: language they understood, telling them we wen friendly merchants bound to Popinowgorod, ant dealing in king. On this report they abated o their timidity, and having satisfied their curiosity with gazing on us, our language, looks and dress being all strange to them, they bartered all the skins which they dared to dispose of, for tobacco and brandy, and then furnished uswith raindeci and sledges to conduce us to the mouth of the river Papinowgorod.,C H A P. VII. They meet five exiles in the woods of Siberia ; in one whom our author finds a gentleman of his acquaint. are: the cause of his banishment: the hardship tide poor people endure : their huts described: of them gives the author a very curious manuscript: item catch sore martens and white foxes: they qui the exiles and proceed: the danger of their journey: they arrive at the town of Papinowgorod, where ths governor and his wife make much of them: an cd ceremony of the lady. xW/ E now left the banks of the river Pezora,along which we had coasted for som time, and went towards that of Papinowgorod, the roads being almost impassable, they were ro wood) and mountainous; however, after being out about three hours, on our approaching a thick wood, we overtook five men dressed in white bear skin, like the Muscovites, each being armed with a gun antea sheathed
a sheathed knife stuck in his girdle, on the opposite side of which hung a pouch.,Our guide, who was a very good one, seeing them advance, for our deer; by which time be ing come within hearing, one of them bade us good morrow, in the German tongue, wishing that they were as free as we. Our supercargo, who was a native of Lower Germany, attracted by the sound of his mother-tongue, observed the person who spoke it very narrowly, and then getting out of his sledge, took him in his arms and embraced him; he proved an intimate acquaintance, who was lately banished by the Czar for hunting sables, a very ca vital offence. During the time that they discoursed, I had leisure to survey the other five, when one of them, of whole features I had a confused idea, tho' I could not recollect instantaneously who he was, asked me whence I came, and whither I went, in French ; I then he reminded me that we had been-acquainted \ in Stockholm; and on his telling me his name, called to mind that he was a gentleman of Lorrain, and at the time I knew him, (when he had served me in many things, and offered to procure me a good poss: at Moscow) lieutenant-colonel of a regiment of horse in the Muscovite service: he was ex extremely altered from what I had seen him, his gar ments were uncouth, his beard was long, his head was bald, and I may say, sharp melancholy had worn him to the bone, for he was reduced almost to a (skeleton. I regretted very sincerely his present condition, how changed from what he was, when his birth, rank, behaviour, and fortune procured him universal respect. I could not view him without tears; he told me that the Czar had unjustly suffered his fidelity, and banished him for three years. The description he gave me of the hardships which he,1z and
and his companions, one of whom had been a ma. jor-general, the second one of the Czar's receivers general, and the third, a man of some consequence, endured in this ungrateful climate, were truly asseting.,Scarce a day passed over their heads w without their being attacked by some wild beasts, which gene. rally march in herds in search of prey. They had no subsistence but what they procured, and to re. lieve them was a crime which attracted severe punish. ment; besides, they were condemned to supply the Czar's officers with a certain number of fables, under the penalty of being severely lashed with a whip of thick hard leather, which leaves their body in a gore of blood; all which grievances, added to the glooms. tess of the place, and the-rigours they endured from the weather, made their lives very miserable. hey all exclaimed loudly against the Czar, and declared, that, once their time of exile was expired, they would take care to get far enough from his power and dominions. We offered our best endeavours to facilitate their escape ; but they told us this va impossible, all the frontiers being shrilly guarded by forts, to the commandants of which their faces were well known, and that nothing less than th cruelest death barbarity could devise would be the reward of them and us for attempting it.,After having refreshed them and ourselves upc the moss, with such provision as we had with ui we resolved to spend a few hours longer with them; for we could not think of leaving so very sudden men whom we had known in better days, who fortune smiled upon them: for my part. main. inclinations would have led me to have staid foes time among them, but it did not suit my comp: tions, who had no views but the profits arifiD from traffic in this excursion, whereas mine we founded on curiosity; and I knew the lieutena,',coloe
colonel to be a man of excellent sense, and very capable of satisfying me in my inquiries concern ing Russia, and the countries wherein he had re sided; and this the more so, as I was satisfied that the observations of a man of his judgment and ex prince would illustrate considerably the remarks I had made myself. Thus perhaps will my desires of consuming one time with there unfortunate people appear rather centered in self; yet I can solemnly declare, that an inclination to console the misfortunes of worthy men, abated me fill more firongly.,They were joyfully thankful at our offering to spend a few hours with them, and to encourage us the more, led us to five little huts which they had built in the neighbouring wood, whereto they fe partly retired when they chose to indulge their melancholy, and chew the cud of sweet and bitter fancy: here there was room enough to entertain us all, and we ordered our guides to unharness our deer, and convey thither our goods, being resolved here to rest a while. Compassion and respect in duce the supercargo and me to visit this residence, but our companions were influenced by the hope of purchasing good Skins; for these gentlemen inform ed us that they had got some valuable ones, be sides several fables, which were reserved entirely for the use 6f the Czar, and consequently could not possibly be parted with. That necessity happens invention, was strongly evinced in the structure of their cabins, which were higher than any we had hitherto seen in our travels and more commodious, having each two-or three rooms, in the sides of which the light entered through a lattice; they were built of sir, and paved with broad fish bones, that gave the floor the appear ance of ivory; over them waved pleasantly enough a tuft of trees; and to defend them from the de-,I 3 precautions
precautions of the wild bealfs, there ran a trench round them, palisades with firing polls, and pieces of wood nailed across them, the top of each being guarded by a spear of fill-bone; thus when their gate was closed they were as secure as if in a fortified place: within they had good flore of biscuit, rain-deer salted down, and metheglin, be ing moreover well supplied with hunting and fill. ing tackle while the rest of the company sat themselves down to drink, the lieutenant-colonel, who was a sober man, and I retired to another hut to enjoy our selves with a more sociable renewal of our acquaint. ance: he then informed me that. he designed to re turn home, when his years of exile should be expire. ed, and gave me his direction in Lorrain. His con. variation was to me extremely entertaining; for there was a spirit in his description of the wildness of the country, and barbarity of te people that ad ded considerably to the picture; this induced me to entreat him to communicate some observations upon the customs, dispositions, and manners of the Muscovites telling him of my intending to published Voyage, and that lome account of the inland pro vices, with which I had not time to make myself thoroughly acquainted, would render it still more perfet.,His reply was, that the present time was too pre pious to be engrossed by so general a subjee; how ever, he tod me, that he ad collected his re marks upon the different provinces of this part of the world during a residence of sixteen years; and opening his cleft, presented me with the manuscript wherein they were copied, which consisted of more than twenty meets of paper, .and which, notwithstanding all my opposition, he insisted upon y accepting, saying, that they could be of no Manner of service to him, for his sufferings had given,him
him such a disgust to the country, that he was sure, whenever he hould leave it, the bare remembrance of it would be affliction. To those memoirs the world is obliged for the observations on the manners and policy of the Russians as well as the relations respecting Siberia hereunto annexed. They are useful, just, and entertaining; and I have endeavoured to-strike out such parts as I thought were heavy, or confined of needless. re petitions. To me the colonel's reflections in gene rat, both upon men and things, appeared to be accurate and judicious; and here and there he had interspersed some passages that served to illustrate his subject from the Muscovite history, which he vas the better enabled to do, as he spoke and wrote the language as exactly and elegantly as their best scholars: this however he might easily do, for the Muscovites are not over-learned; they have an in nate contempt for literature, and the clergy are as brutally ignorant as the laity. When my friend and I were wearied with discourse we composed ourselves to sleep upon bear skins, as our companions did also when tired with drinking. In the morning we rose early, and accompanied by the five exiles, each of us armed with a gun, traversed the woods, and examined our snares to see what prey we had caught in those we had pitch ed the night before; we only killed a few grey martens, and about a dozen white foxes, nor did we choose to fatigue ourselves with hunting, as we were resolved to pursue our journey i the after noon. We returned in a short time to our huts, where, together with our holts, we dined heartily, drank plentifully, and then we took our leave, being tru ly grieved at our not being able to relieve men of,14 soso
much worth. They forced upon us at parting some ermines, bears, foxes, and wolf king, for which they would take no money; however, we insisted upon their accepting of one brandy, to. banco, and cloth, which we took care should ex. need in value the commodities they had given us, We wept reciprocally at parting; and having taken a last farewell, mounted our sedges and continued our journey with the usual expedition.,In about three hours we came to five or six huts, inhabited by about a dozen people, from whom we bought all their sins ; and afterwards, keeping the banks of the river Pezora, villages began to multi. ply ; some of them were abandoned, and some not; wherever we found inhabitants we were sure of having some skins either for brandy or money, but none would venture to sell us fables. We now reached a large ridge of high craggy' mountains, always covered with snow, that divide the last men. toned country from Borandia.,This was the most fatiguing, disagreeable, and I may add intimidating, journey we had hitherto made; for besides the air, which was extremely un xvholfome, and the barren soil, the roads swarm with white bears and wolves, which put us often in fear of our lives, though I am apt to believe these beast were as much terrified as ourselves, for they fled from us on every hide, perhaps frightened by the glittering of our arms, which we took care to display to the best advantage after labouring among these hills, whereby our cattle were heartily tired, for more than twelve hours, we descended into a Siberian village, where the people had linen shirts, close buskins, and gar. ments of bear skins, with the hair on the outside; they appeared to be less barbarous than those will whom we had lately conversed, receiving us wish great hospital, and demanding very civilly our,countly,
country, business, and destination. Having resolved their questions, we bought all their skins for ready money, seastd with them on rice-cake, ginger bread, dried flesh of bear or wolf, drank heartily of spirits, and then slept upon bear-skin, in houses built in the manner of those of Lapland. At our riling they treated us with a glass of brandy, and then we set forward for Papinowgorod, which place we reached in twenty' hours the governor, of this town went for us on our arrival, to inquire into our country and business; we immediately attended him at his cattle, and an swerved all his questions much to his satisfaction. When he was informed that we were Danish mer chants, who'd come hither to buy fur, he treated as in a very friendly manner; and to (hew his re spent for us, sent for his wife to entertain us, a. piece of unexpected condescension. She made her appearance with a bottle of bran dy in one hand, and a silver cup in the other, and was followed by a maid who carried a plate of ginger-bread; we saluted her in the Muscovite manner, by bowing our heads, and he untied the knot of her fmock-fleeve, which dropping to the ground, was taken up by our supercargo, who having kissed it, gave it me to do the same after which ceremony, he hauled up unfurled it again, and presented each of us with. a. bumper of brandy and a piece of ginger-bread;, anding all the while near her husband, at the end'of the table, and thea: the withdrew, when the. governor regaled us with. an excellent supper. We lay that night in the castle upon good-beds Mean good ones considering the place;. and as soon as we were erring in the morning, the-goe vernon waited on us, .followed by a servant with a. bottle of brandy, of which he made each of s - train a hearty cup by way of morning's whet. He,I 5 thea
then produced his skins, which, tho' the dearest ( had hitherto seen, were well chosen, and worth what he demanded for them: when he had dis posed of his own flock, he ordered his servants tc inquire for chapman amongst the town's people, and while the supercargo was making the best bar gains he could, I diverted myself with walking 'round the town.,C H A P. VIII. Tbe u7l;nags, manners, and ;habitants of Papinowg,rod dfi'ibed: the people .of Siberia very jealous their wives : the great virtue of their laws: our author and his company quit Papinowgorcd, and into Samoa, were the people worship the fun: ths, arrival n the coat of Borandia and sitting si for Nova Zembla, where they are avoided by tbi people: an account f the idol Fe;zo : our aurthi attacked with a disorder ifutal in those countries bis method of cure very judicious: an account of As fea-h-ffi[hbsry, and the value of its horn. T- He houses of Papinowgorod are low ands-meanly built, of mud or wood, the chinks flopped up with moss; the streets are paved with pieces of timber, well joined : the country about is very fertile, and well watered by a fine river, in which there is variety of excellent fish. The bet' ter sort of people wear a long robe with very clot sleeves of another colour, which reaches down tc their toes; under it they have breeches, and flock' kings of the same cloth; their hoes, or rather boots like those of the Planters, are of blue, red o0 yellow leather, and buttoned on the top; they weal cloth caps, lined and faced with ermine, fable, o0 else black fox skin. The hair of the women, who are fair, plump, and very handsome, is generally,0i
of a beautiful chesnut colour, and flows in ringlets down the back; round their waists, they have a broad girdle, studded-with pearls, and their hists are made of fine calico with sleeves all ruffled up from the wrist to the shoulder, in one of which perhaps there are five ells, and this bundle pre vents them from using the arms of their robes, which therefore hang useless, being very long, and often only pinned on. Their robes or upper gar ments descend like those of the men to the feet, of a blue, a red, or a violet colour cloth, and are lined either with fable or white fox kin.,The people of Siberia are grave and hardy, they handle the cross-bow well, and are ignorant, chur lith. and avaricious, jealous of their wives, who are generally locked up, and if they are .not, none of them dare quit their rooms without leave of their husbands, whose love they prize but indifferently if they are not often beaten, such is the prevalence of custom. The religion of this province is called Nicholatian: their justiciary proceedings are all ex expeditiously terminated, their laws not being so intricate and perplexed as ours, free from those subterfuges and equivocations that reflex dishonour on the policy of polite nations; there are no pettifog king designing wretches, that prey upon the ignorant and unwary, who, under pretence of relieving innocence and succouring distress, enrich them selves with the spoils of the widow and the father less. Perjury is most severely punished, the mur deer seldom escapes with his life, the adulterer of either sex is stoned to death, and the robber meets with his deserts; in hort, all the courts of justice are in reality courts of equity; and there does not seem to be any difference in the terms. We call this country barbarous; are not we, when compared with them in this light, much more de serving of that epithet ?,1 6 When
When we had packed up.our cargo of (king, among which were some fables sold us by the go. vernon underhand, we found we had enough to load a sledge and a half; besides which, having some tobacco and five thousand ducats lest, we de. termined to go forward, and march thro' Samojeda to our hips, in which road we flood a good chance of disposing of the rest of our goods, and acquire. ing more skins. For this purpose we purchased of our governor provision enough to lait us twelve days, rain-deer for our whole journey, and a new supply of brandy, our flock being all consumed. When we had made our bargain, and paid our money, we were obliged to fit to a drinking-match, as is the custom all over Russia, and after slicking to the bottle ten hours, we lay down to sleep.,In the morning when we rose we found every thing ready for us to go on. We mounted our sledges and went forward: in seventeen hours pro. griefs, we flopped very often to buy furs, and hay ing crossed the Ripen mountains, in six hours more we entered Samojeda, a desolate mountainous count. try, full of sir, pines, and juniper; the ground co vexed in some places with moss, and in others with snow, and the road every moment incommoded with white wolves, bears, and foxes, which con tribute to our no small terror when we had reached the top of Mount Stol when, whence arises the river Borfogatz, we bait ed at a small village, where we purchased several sorts of skins, particularly some castors and otters; and though we proved to the people that there was no danger of our being searched in the way to our ships, we could not prevail with them to part with some shins that were prohibited, till. we had' made them courageous with brandy, and then they sold us some of the best fables that we picked up in our-whole progress.,After
After having slept four or five hours, in common with the whole family male and female, upon the ground, on skins, in the chief hut in the village, we were awaked by our holt stirring about and raising his family; whereupon they all went out: my curiosity excited me to follow them, and I saw them all at a little distance from the cabbin, behind it, fall down on their knees, and raise their hands and eyes to the riling fun, as if in worship. This I afterwards was informed they believe to be God. The people of Samojeda are shorter and thicker than either those of Lapland or Borandia; they have large heads, flat notes, unmeaning faces, and scarcely any hair; the women are more ill favoured than the men; like them too they hunt with bows and arrows, and breed their children to the chace: nor is their dress much different, except that a lock of hair hangs twisted between their shoulders, to which'is hung a tail of ribbon, made of the bark of a tree, extending to their heels. They wear a cap furred like a lambskin, a pair of white bear. skin breeches, stockings, hoes, and' coats reaching only to their knees, of the same kin ; over all they hang a black bear's skin, the feet dangling at the four corners, and this leans more to the left-hand than the right; it is fattened on the Shoulders, and to it is tied a quiver of arrows. Having bartered all our wares in this country, and flocked ourselves handsomely with king, in twelve days we returned to our Ships which await ed us at an appointed place on the Borandian oast. Here having put all our purchases on board, we paid off our guide, and embarking in two hours after, sailed with a fair wind for Zembla, which we came in sight of the next day. In the afternoon We cast anchor near the shore, in a good depth; as the weather was clear awe could perceive at a distance about thirty men, of more barbarous appear-dance
ance than any we had hitherto met, armed witt bows and arrows, and bent on their knees worship. ping the setting fun. After some deliberation it was concluded, that each ship should send out its long-boat, filled with men, well armed for their defence, in case of their being attacked by there fa. wages, with whom they were to endeavour to drive some trade. I was one of the number dispatched upon this service: and we were no sooner landed than the savages suddenly rose, and discharged their arrows at us; after which they fled with prodigy. vous swiftness, the volley having been made at too great a distance to do us any harm.,We pursued them as fast as possible, in hopes to have made one or two prisoners, by using whom well, and afterwards letting them go, we hoped to ingratiate ourselves with the rest; but they ot. Dripped our belt endeavours; we lost them near a hill covered with snow: however, we continued our march into the country till we came to a rising ground, wherein was erected the;idol called Fetizo, from which one of our people who had been here before informed us, the devil sometimes delivered oracles. It was a representation of a human figure, most wretchedly cut in wood, and before it were two Zemblians on their knees, who, the moment they beheld us, retreated precipitately into an ad. joining sir wood, and as night came on fall, we did not think it quite safe to follow them, but agreed to retire till next morning to our ships that night I was taken with a violent vomiting and pain in my head, which lasted three hours, as ter which my throat was so very sore that I could swallow nothing; the glands were very much swell led, and so were my gums; my teeth were loose, my legs could scarcely support me I was so weak; ny stomach was quite gone: I was troubled with accountant sever; my body itched extremely from,bead
VX Bay l-.pny /,C 'U- and s. u',prs. o v T B^ R i ^ - <i-r z- Tara 5,L AJr T H 9 4a 5 few .Mx l Sea z. '<;PBtr an&- CH I'*^S JI ^^ (,i70 ans-rv 60 o,j Â£r7P~L Go 60
'head to foot, and I had besides an ebullition of blood. My breath was short and offensive; and to quench my thirst I used vinegar and water mixed ;. but finding in two days that my distemper did not slacken, and knowing that it must arise from the pituitous glands being inflamed, partly by cold, and partly by eating salt meats, whereby the other humours were infected, I abstained from every thing that was salt, drank a spoonful of brandy and syrup of liquorice mixed, every hour, gargled my throat constantly either with brandy or vinegar, and rub bed my mouth with mel. rosa. Most of our Flip's. crew were afflicted with 'the same disorder; but by observing the above method of treating it, in fifteen. days time i cured them and myself too.,Our other ships complained of the same infection, and two people in one of them died under the fur gen's bands, who essayed the cure by purging and bleeding without success. Upon this a consultation was held, in which I recommended my process, supporting its efficacy by proof: it was accordingly adopted, nor did it fail in the least.,I have observed, in the course of my practice, that bleeding and purging are of no use in caco- chymical cases, or those caused by an abounding of ill humours in the blood, but often hurry the patient out of life; for they weaken the fight, de militate the nerves, diminish the natural heat, and consume the radical moisture; however, I would not be understood to condemn bleeding entirely: no; for I look upon it to be necessary in all hot or plethoric cases, twice or thrice.,Our crews, excepting three or four, and they were on the mending hand, being all recovered, we set sail with a fair wind for Weygatz, to fish for sea-horse, having been sixteen days on the coast of Zembla. We were three days looking out for Â£si1 without catching any, though we had pur long-boats
boats ready with eight men, besides rowers, armed with harpoons and other necessary tackle, always on the watch: however, on the third day they dis. covered three fish, one of them having a large horn on his forehead the latter they struck with their harpoons, and then giving him rope enough on each side, retired, that they might be out of his reach during the time of his struggling; but he soon grew very weak, and they cut off his head, flinging the body, which is neither good for meat nor oil, into the sea. People sims for the sea horse only on account of his teeth and horn, which are dear er than those of the elephant, because they are whiter, and not so apt to turn yellow. The horn of this that we took was ten feet long; it was heavy and frmh the rot, which was as thick as a man's shoulder, to the top, gradually decreased, wreathing handsomely all the way. One of the other boats coming too close upon the other fill, in order to make sure of him, and' not retreating properly, was overturned by his tail, wherewith he began to lash with prodigious fury on-feeling the harpoon; two of the men were drowned by this accident; however we took the fish, and though it no way recompensed the loss of our sailors, yet it was a good prize, the teeth being very large and beautifully whit ewe were four days after this adventure without meeting any more, and were preparing, to shift our fiction when we spied four well sized flies, three of which we took, and-in twelve hours after discovered five more, one of them horned; but he escaped with two of his companions, and immediately after we struck another, each of whose jaw-teerh.weighed twenty-nine pounds. Two days after we caught five more, among which was one with a horn; but it was a small fill, not quite seven feet long. We were five days from this time without per-receiving
ceiling any fils, whereupon we took the advantage of a north-east wind to sail towards Weygatz, with some hopes of passing those freights; a course which, if once completed, would shorten the pas sage to the East Indies by three fourths; but when we had made about thirty-fix leagues therein, we were so encumbered with ice, and surrounded with those icy mountains covered with snow that always lie at the mouth of the Frozen Sea, and are known by the name of Pater Noster, that we could not proceed. Hence do these freights derive their name, Weygatz, which signifies in English Impassable We came to anchor close to the land, on the eastern coast of Zembla, where one of our sea men going ashore was struck down by a bear which came behind him; and had we not happily seen it, and hot the bear dead, he would certainly have been destroyed. This accident deterred the rest of our crews from venturing land. Shortly after three other bears came to the side of the (hip, and one of them got aboard of us, though we cut off the paws of the second, whereby he was disabled, and hot the third with a fusee; a sailor who hap opened to be near him when he mounted roared out dreadfully, on which we took up the first offensive weapon that came to hand, and the savage soon fell under the multitude of our blows; besides this, we fired at and killed two others that swam towards us. We thought that this (laughter would have prevented any more attacks of the same nature; but we were mistaken: in a few hours after, ten or twelve more came as far towards us on the ice as they could, and then took the water, making directly for the flip, every one of which we hot dead; but, like the hydra-head, the more we brought down the greater number poured upon us from the cloud-capped hills; so that finding we had so many dreadful enemies to deal with, we flood,over
over again to the west coast of Zembla, and got clear off Weygatz Streights with an easterly breeze in fifteen hours, not without great danger from the many concretions of ice that opposed our way, and made it very troublesome chap. IX. Some f - the crew go adhere on an island in the flrigts,of Wleygatz, where they kill a great number fowl: the bird called a penguin described : they afterwards land upon Nova Zembla, and size same of the na times their Strange kind of boats: coats m de of theJkins off,w : the inhabitants a despicable race: usurping panama. on in the heavens: a violent Form forces them on the cash of mount Hecla : the cutbor goes to examine the mountain, and is in dan. ger of jffocain: of the surprising properties of two fountains on te island: the absurd notion of some people about bell being in mount Hecla: the nature of the soil of Iceland explained, and its barrenness accounted fr : an account of the dress, manners, and cutlets of the Iceland-rs; their propefi'yto nero. many : a waterspout described, of which they are in omne fear: the ships arrive in Denmark ad srnlde at Chri/iianbaven- this journal co,;clds with fie conjectures relating to te unicorn's horn, and observations thereon. Some of our crew landed on a verdant sand S at the mouth of these streights, covered with sir and juniper, where we hot and knocked down above sixty penguins, which we carried on board with us. This is a bird not higher but much lar ger than a swan, with a (harp beak, under which begins a gullet that reaches to the middle of the breast, widening as it extends, in which they ftodc,thei
their provision, and take it out to eat as they have occasion; they have webbed feet like a goose, and are of a brown colour; their flesh is well-tailed, something like a wild duck, but fatter and more de vicious; they were the best regale we had in our whole voyage. Before we dressed them we were forced to take off the skin, which is thick and very tough after having tarried at this hand two days, we heaved up our anchor, and set sail with breeze at southeast, which soon cleared us from the Streights of Weygatz, and inatout thirty hours resound our selves off that point of land where we had first seen the Zemblians worshipping the fun. As the king of Denmark was very curious to have some perfect account of the riches and nature of Zembla, and for the more easily acquiring that knowledge, had commanded our officers to bring off some of the natives; we determined to put this order in execution if there was a possibility of it, and for this purpose thirty of us, I say us, because I was one in every excursion that promised any thing curious or new, were-divided in the long-boats; and we food law a Zemblian in his canoe about half a league from land, who perceiving that we rowed towards him, made off so nimbly, that it was vain even to, attempt overtaking him; for he on gained the flore, and throwing his boat upon his shoulder, fled with the speed of a-flag; nor did he seem en cumbered either with his boat, or a dart which he grasped in his right hand. We saw him mount a hill, and he was quickly out of sight: however, we soon after discovered two other Zemblians farther out at sea, whom with tome difficulty we surrounded and seized, and when they could find no possibility of escaping, they set up a howl more hideous than any thing I had ever heard.,They
They were a man and a woman, dressed in.cloaths made of the kin of the sea-calf, with the hair out. ward; their waistcoats were two skins joined toge. ther, reaching down to the knees, and the tails hung dangling between their legs ; their breeches or drawers were very strait; the man-feared toe about fifty years old, he had no hair on his head, but he had a round chesnut beard; the hair of the woman, who could not be more than thirty years of age, fell down on her shoulders in twists; and her nose and ears were ornamented with pendants of blue stones. They were extremely ugly.,We took the two persons we had seized into one of our boats. and kept in tow the canoe, which was made of the rb-bones of fish artfully joined, and neatly covered with fish-skins sewed together, being in length sixteen feet, and two feet and a half broad; there was a fish-skin drawn over it. leaving only a small hole in the middle, in which the owner sits, and having drawn the skin tight about hilton every side, and tied it round his waist, so that no water can possibly enter, he takes up his oar, and commits himself to the mercy of the waves, with out fear of being swallowed up.,It was in vain for us to strive to learn any thing from our prisoners, they were so very stupid and sullen; whereupon thirty of us, taking several days provision with us, went ashore and marched in two companies, about one hundred yards distant from each other; now and then hiding in caverns under the rocks, and polling sentinels at proper places to discover if any savages approached, whom we hoped either to force or persuade to hew us their habitations.,We were out two days without seeing the final left fig of an inhabitant, when at last one of our sentinels gave us notice that two of them were,descending
descending the hill towards the fca-fide ; .on which advice, we divided ourselves in companies, at pro per distances, and the Zemblians soon entered the snare without perceiving or suspecting any treachery until one of our companions (hot off a fusee, a signal at which we all made our appearances, and the savages finding it impossible to fly, were easily taken; they were dressed much alike, though a man and a woman, each had on a strait pair of breeches, and a sort of waistcoat, the sleeves reach ing only to the elbows, made of penguin skins with the feathers on, except some places in the hin der and foreparts of the waistcoat, which were picked; their. stockings were made of sea calf's skin with hair on, and they had caps formed like a sugar loaf the male seemed to be about twenty-four years old, without any beard either on his head or chin; his face was broad, flat and swarthy; on his shoulder he held an axe, he had a bow in his hand, and a quiver of arrows hung at his back. The female seemed to be about twenty, he had a dart in her hand, her hair hung in two twists upon each shoulder he had blue freaks on her chin and forehead, and in her nostrils, which were bored as well as her ears, hung fish-bone rings, or blue stones as large as filberts; those in her ears were not-bigger than pease.,It was in vain for us to strive to receive the flight eft information from them, either relating to their habitations or any thing else; they were obstinate and sulky; so we carried them on board; and found they were acquainted with their two fellow prisoners though very differently dressed. Such of the natives of Zembla as I saw, are the most despicable species of mankind that can be conceived; they are porter and more squat than the other northern people, as ugly as imagination c .n frames
of humanity; with squeaking voices, and slinking breaths, caused by their feeding on flesh without fair, fish, and slinking oil. They waddle like ducks, and never drink any thing but water; they hated the smell of tobacco, would sometimes touch our brandy with a sort of insipid gust, but would not meddle with bread, corned meat, nor beer. The wood work of their bows and darts is heavy, and of a red brown colour, that of their arrows is whiter and not so weighty; their needles, the points their arrows, and their instruments, as well defensive and offensive as others, are very neatly cut out of the bones of filh.,It being now the latter end of August, the sum. mer declining apace, the nights growing long, and the cold increasing, we began to think of return. ing home, wherefore we held a south west course, but where obliged to change, by the wind shifting, and make the coast of Greenland; where we dropt anchor in the midst of the French and Dutch fleet, employed in the whale fishery. These (hips seldom lie far from the lore for whales, which are caught much in the fame-manner as the sea-horse, are commonly found near the land. When they are taken, they are cut in pieces, and the grease being scooped out of the body, it is put into a large kettle, where it is melted to oil, in huts for that purpose on the Tea shore. I saw during our slay here, one whale that yielded three hundred and fifty pound weight of useful bone, which together with its oil must have brought to its owners very considerable profit. Our arrival in this place was fortunate for our Zemblian prisoners, who had pined a good while for want of whale oil, without which they could touch nothing, and our sore was exhausted; but here we received a fresh supply, to their no small joy. Afe,After
After having staid on this coast two days, we weighed anchor with the wind at north-east, and about five o' clock next morning, we saw three suns in the heavens one above another, so equally bright that it was hard to distinguish which was the real one; this phenomenon was followed by a very violent storm, that forced us to take in all our sails ex kept the mizen, and we continued to drive upon a most boisterous sea for a day and a night; on which a sailor, who was ordered aloft upon a look-out, discovered a great fire, at which he was terribly dismayed; but the master knew it to be Mount Hecla in Iceland, to which coast we determined im mediately to stand over, in search of a harbour, not being able to keep the sea any longer.,We came up with the Iceland (lore about night, and distinctly saw the flames issue in abundance from the mountain, accompanied by a loud and molt terrifying oise. The sea was so rough, and we knew the coast to be so rocky, that we hould not have ventured within a league of land, only for our pilot, who, being well acquainted with the soundings, undertook to conduct us to Cape Her, where we anchored in safety. One of our company broke her bulk-head against a rock, and it was well he escaped splitting; the other re civet no damage. A firing party of us went ashore at the village of Her, whence we proceed ed to Kirkebar, a large town in Iceland, where we met eight or nine Danish merchants, who were surprized and rejoiced at seeing us; they enter gained us with excellent bread, meat, and wine, and told us, that the day before, they had had an earthquake so very violent, that they thought the whole hand would have been swallowed up. These gentlemen procured horses for eight of us, whom curiosity excited to take a view of the country, the rest chusing to remain to revel wither them;
them; besides which, they furnished us with guides and provision. We travelled two days ia bye-ways, rugged and unfrequented, when we found ourselves about five miles from Hecla, the ground being strewed with ales and pumice-stones, and our guide told us that if we advanced we should fall into pits of fire, the ground being very loose, whence we (hould not be able to extricate ourselves.,All the company were intimidated by the guide from proceeding, except a Danish merchant, who had civilly accompanied us, and myself, who were determined to ascend the hill, as there was no sign of either fire or flame; and the weather was serene and calm. Wherefore leaving our horses to the care of those who staid behind, we boldly ventured forward, determined to reach the top of the hill, and were often up to the calves of our legs in ashes, which mixed with pumice-stones lay round us all the way ; in a short time we (aw a large flight of crows and vultures, that had their nests near the mountain top; but we had scarcely gone half a league, when the ground hook under us, accompanied with a dreadful rumbling noises if it would burst, at the same time that the earth on every side split into chinks, out of which issued bluish flames, that while they impregnated the air with a strong sulphureous smell, took away all our courage, so that we turned back much more nimbly than we had ascended, for in a quarter of an hour we traversed the same space in our retreat, which we had been more than an hour in clamber. ing up from our setting out. In our way we were enveloped in a black cloud of smoke, that rose outoi the mountain, which covered us with foot; and was so thick that it quite obscured the light of the-fun,. while flames, ashes and pumice-stones fel every where round us like hail, and our ears wer,alarme
alarmed with the mos horrid and lamentable sounds, that were repeated in our ears over 'and over, by the-officiousness of a multitude of echoes from every quarter of the hill: and now we began loudly and heartily to repent of our ill-timed curiosity for we feared every infant being devoured by the charms gaping every where round us.,Our companions laughed very heartily, when they saw our haste, and our black frightful ap appearance; however, they changed their mirth when they perceived us fall as it were dead at their feet, unable to utter a word ; it was some time before they could recover us, by rubbing our hands, nostrils, and temples with vinegar; at length however we revived, and when we described our danger, they allowed our escape was Miraculous. At the foot of Mount Hecla we fund a pumice-stone as large as a hogshead, and our guide told us he had not only seen one much larger, and too heavy for ten men to stir, but also the volcano sometimes cad up water instead of flames, and at other times pumice stones and aflles.,From Mount Hecla we had a three hours ride to two fountains about thirty yards distant one from the other; one of which is lb cold that it turns every thing that touches it into iron, and I tiled it by put tin, into it part of a small cane, which, so far down as it was immersed in the water, was to my great surprize transmuted into a matter as heavy as iron all the properties almost of which it had acquirement ab',ut ten yards distant from the other fountain which is boiling hot, we saw a parcel of ani n-alJ of a red colour, about the bigness of ducks, si f.itrg on the surface; which immediately dived to the bottom when we came in view, and rose up again, when we were out of sight; this they al Wats do, as our guide informed us, and there ne ver '.a- a possibility of catching them; for it is their wav to keep the top of the water when no-,VUL. V. K body
body is in sight, but to fink to the bottom, which is sixty father deep, if his report is to be believed, when any persons approach from this fountain we travelled to the' ea side, within half a league of which we could hear the most piteous lamentations moaning all along the coat ; these sounds have the tone of a human creature complaining, as if in agony, and that in so doleful a manner as to make the blood thrill, and impress the boldest heart with fear. These image. nary complaints are caused by the agitation of the ice and the water; which being driven violently against the rocks by the wind, produces this terrifying noise, and it is considerably augmented by the echoes of the many neighbouring caverns. Our curiosity led us to take a vi.ev of those floats of ice, which bound only this part of the sand, coming upon the coast in June nd going away in Septem ber. The people of Iceland believe, and our guides would fain have persuaded us into the same notion, that this ea is the receptacle of the damned, whom the devils here immerse in the most piercing cold, after having kept them a while burning in Mount Hecla; and in this transition from heat to cold, and from cold to heat alternately, say they, consists the torments of the damned thither by harpy-footed furies haul'd, At certain revolutions, all the damn'd Are brought, and feel by turns the bitter change Of fierce extremes, extremes by change more fierce; From beds of raging fire, to starve in ice Their soft et.crial warmth; and there to pine Immoveable, infix'd, and frozen round, Periods of time; thence hurried back to fire. On the 6th of September we returned back to Kirkebar, where having tarried a few hours, we went on board, and found in our hips the governour
your of the island, and a bishop; who came to pay us a visit. ,son the Seth, taking the advantage of a nor therly wind, we set sail from Iceland : an island abounding in cattle, and having plenty of rich pasturage, among which grows an herb called caitophe, of which the herds would eat till they burst, were they permitted to feed as long as they thought proper, wherefore they are stinted to a certain quantity; and though the fields look very green and pleasant, yet so violent is the cold kept up by a north-east wind, which blows very hard, that no manner of wheat or grain fit to make bread will ever ripen here, but perishes in the ground or in the bud.,The islanders male and female are very ugly and sooty complexioned; they dress like the Norwegians, in coats made of the skin of the ea calf with the hair turned outward, their linnen being coarse packing cloth; they lie under the same roofs with their cattle, in caverns hewn under the rocks, or in cot takes of a very sorry appearance, built either with wood or fish-bones, and covered with turf, in the' manner of those of Lapland ; the whole family lie in their cloaths upon a common bed of hay or straw, and cover themselves warm with skins; they live by sifting, and are very brutal and sluttish, and molt of them pretend to necromancy. It is said that the devi!, whom they worship under the name of Ko bald, appears often to them in a human shape. They have a sort of houshold god cut out of wood, the figure of which is very hideous; to this they psy a very constant homage, but that privately, they standing in some awe of the Lutheran priest, who endeavour to instruct" them in the principles of Christianity; but notwithstanding appearances, few are ever really converted.,In a few days, the wind blo ing hard, we came in sight of Tails, a promontory on the coast of Nor-,K 2 way,
way, about four-leagues from the sea, on wh.ll there is a small city and a firing castle; we coasted along the lore about twelve hours, being now lure of making land, when the wind changing with the soon, drove us, notwithstanding all our care, at least forty leagues backward: this gale ws suc. reeled by a fiat calm, which to a sailor longing to reach home after a long voyage, is much more irk. feme than a storm; and while it continued, we were alarmed by a water-spout to the south-west of us, which we did our best to ,avoid, by furling all cur fails nd lowering our yards; however, we were relieved from our apprehensions by its breaking about two leagues from us.,The water-spout is a black cloud formed like a column between the sky and the surface of the water, which when it breaks, discharges a prodigious ca. tara of water, and would immediately fink any flip to the bottom on which it should chance to fali,,The wind coming about again in our favour, we made the city of Copenhagen in ten days; there, having saluted the cafi!e, we dropped anchor, put out our boat, and went shore, well pleased again to see our native foil.,In two days after, our ships were ordered up to Christian-haven, were they were unladen, and their cargoes not only gave content, but were of special advantage to the owners; one of which presented his Danish majesty with the two horns, which were esteemed as invaluable curiosities, tina thought the real unicorn's horn; they were or tered to be deposited in the treasury chambermaid the merchant who carried them to court was not only honoured v. with a gold chain, to which his ma jetty's picture was affixed, but also allowed to trade for a certain term cf years, custom free; be sides which the king was pleased to promise the corn any in general many extraordinary privileges.,j - Sv~~~~~~e
We carried the Zemblians with us to court, the oddness of whose dress, and the strangeness of whose figures, gave the king some diversion; and indeed they were objects that engrossed general at tension ; the steward of the royal household was' ordered to provide them with proper lodgings, and take care that they were instructed in.the Danish language; by which it was hoped they might be in duce to give rome account of Zembla, to be relied upon better than any hitherto published ; but never herd that'they afforded that fatisfation.,Now before I close this little journal, allow me to observe that I believe there is no other unicorn's horn than what' is sounding the head of the sea horse; and that the virtues of it are nothing near so great as have been' represented :' for my part Cannot help declaring it to be my opinion, that some authors who have pretended to treat of the nature and properties of the unicorn, have' presented us with creatures of their o''n invention, rather than' pictures drawn from nat e; and others, but parti clearly Marco Baiulo the Venetian, have confound ed the unicorn with the rhinoceros. Pliny tells us, that the unicorn is like a bull, speckled with white spots; and Munster si's, it is of a weasel colour, resembling a colt of about three years of age. Phi lotorgius gives her the head of a dragon, the beard of a oat, the neck and feet of a lion, the slain of a snake, and the body of a stag. Heliopolis says, she is so nimble that he outstrips the hunter's swiftest paces; and Lewis Paris, who gives a strange description of her, informs that she is some times taken, and that then he is fed with pease, beans, and lentils; but from the stricter consideration all the accounts seem calculated rather to ex cte admiration than to declare the'truth.,K 3 Some
Some Authentic Memoirs relating to the affairs of RussIA.,CHAP. X. A r;s cavalier of te ensuing anecdotes relating to,Rufia th p.-cdiious extent of the czar's domini. ons ; their n.i es and various commodities; the vft quantities of wax and knew produced here; the manner of tray fling in this country; the Russians ignorant ad mrrlful; their great aversion to learning ; their religion, and the adherent ceremo. nies; their great c u. y to their wives; a trick put zp'hn the czar Alexis Miihaewitz by one of his principal courtiers; the education o' the print royal of Russia somewhat strangest E many curious and entertaining relations contained both in this and the fore going journal, may well atone for some few inaccuracies that .may here and there have crept into them: there is an air of sincerity, and a strength judgment runs through the whole that aught to render them valuable. Though this c- count of Russia iS prior to the reign of Peter the Great, who laid the first foundation of polishing the inhabitants, yet they being naturally a brutal, ob finite, 2nd stupid Feop!e, this reformation has nt-et established itself in the inland provinces, at leaf entirely ; so that this may fill be taken for a very lively picture of them the czar's domini: ns are the largest of any po estate in Europe, exclusive of his Asiatic possessions which are very extensive: they lie between,fcrt-
forty-seven and seventy-two degrees north latitude, and twenty-three and fortyfive east longitude; and as they contain such a vast trap of ground, the air muff consequently differ as the climates change; the southern-provinces and the heart of the country are temperately warm, and though the latter is co vexed with snow during six months in the year; and the frosts in winter are continued, yet on the breaking up of the weather, and melting of the. snow, the soil, which is very fertile, produces all manner of vegetables in a surprisingly short space of time; and from hence the northern parts of the em pire are supplied with provision in plenty, being in themselves very barren and thinly peopled, over run with forests, bogs, barren sands, and mo, rafle, and lying nine months at least under snow. In the beginning of winter, the north-eat wind,, sharpened by the vast trans of snow and ice over. which it sweeps, renders the, air extremely cold; nor are the south gales less severe, when the snows are fallen in that quarter.,Ruflia is a level country, except to the north ward, where the mountains of Flop aris ;' it pro duces corn, flax, pitch, tar, turpentine, fir, and oak; and has good mines of silver, lead, and iron, whereby they are enabled to export large quantities of fire-arms. Their trade in furs is lo very great as to furnish, yearly, lading for a thou sand foreign hips in that ingle article; they also carry on a considerable traffic, by land-carriage, of camels, with China and the EaR-Indies, whereby the crown is a considerable gainer. Wax and honey are in great plenty in this part bs the world, and by this alone many people amass good fortunes. They cut down trees in the woods, and dividing, hollow them, after which they flop up each end with wax, leaving only a small opening fur the bees to enter; by the old laws of Rufflia,,4 every
every'man who prepares a tree in this manner, fe cures his property in it, nor will any body pretend to alienate it.,In the southern and eastern parts, they have sleep, camels, and a small but very hardy breed of horses; and to the northward, wild fowl, fish, rein-deer, and the different animals whose king are valuable, are found in abundance; their principal liquors is a spirit distilled from rye, which they prefer to any import of the same nature, and a firing frt of mead extracted fi-om- honey. In the middle of Ruffs, they travel with sledges drawn by horses, which are changed every fourteen or fifteen miles; but farther north, they ufethe rein deer, and when the wonderful, the almost incredible expedition of there animals is considered, ose cannot avoid expressing some surprize that the court of Russia does not take the trouble of examining more accurately than hitherto, the different provinces subservient to its power.; which might easily be done with the assistance of this animal, which sweeps over the tracts of frozen land, swifter than a race horse on full slouch over the cleared sod.,So very mistrustful are the Russians, and so little : nowied-e have they in matters either temporal or f-i:Lr l, 'tht they fiu pec every person who makes t~e ina: in'-C';'-: into thir principles or government, n.' -e: cole,' conn ot tel why they do io; and this ;iai-.;s Gi :c.,ion throws alios: insurmountable c.:-u: es in the vw'.-1 of him who travels into .,: co.v, ci' er to improve his knowledge, or to grate; nes cu:o,.;'.,A 'ub.:c grammar school was erected by the reii-.z cz r in 153- , about which time printing-:s ai'i. introduces, but it wv.as loon overturned trough the irreverence of the priest, who are ignorant and illiterate, being on!l pecp!e o un-,hla:m.iabi
blamable conversation selected from among the laity; they had sufficient freight. to perceive that the success of the school would contribute to the increase of knowledge, whereby their power might be undermined; and they prevented it. A priest of Chios, having, by his prayers, effected the re cover of the great duke from a violent fit of sick nets, the Muscovites were thereupon induced to embrace the Christian religion. Their liturgy is t.:ken from the Greeks; it is read in the Slavonic language, which is as little understood among them as Che Latin is among the common Roman Catho hic ,Their churches are built like those of the Greeks, and are ornamented with pictures; they were for merely set off with images adorned in the most splendid manner; but there, by the ecclesiastical regula tions now prevailing, are entirely forbid ; and bend ing the knee before them, as the Roman catholics do, is termed idolatry. At prayers, they prostrate themselves on the earth, and spend whole nights in the church at devotion, at the eve of certain par titular festivals. They-often throw themselves on the ground, beating their heads against it, and then making the sign of the cross. There are intervals of their divine service, in which they discourse of temporal affairs; and the emperor, who always as fills at public worship attended by his whole court, dispatches business at the same time; he is gene a'l!y angry with any of his people whom-he missed at church. The Russians mistake maple for sycamore, and adorn their churches with it at Whitsuntide, be living that, as manna fell on the oak leaf in the heart, the Holy Ghost descends on those boughs, when they are prostrate on the floor: they are forbidden, by a late injunction, the use of musical instrument in their-churches. Three hours after 5 fun,
sun-rise, they celebrate a form of prayer called robe-ni; one after sun-set, called vackerny; and a third called zaoutrings, an hour after midnight the obedni is, " Have mercy upon me, 0 " Lord, according to thy loving kindness, and : blot out my trans religion, according to thy " greatness, and multitude of thy bounties.",The vackerny is, " O Lord, hear my prayer " when I call upon thee, and let my cry come un " to thee.",The zaoutrings is, '" We put our trust in Chris " our Saviour, and all our hope is in him.",They repeat "miserere," by them called, " hof. "t pede pomelee, an hundred times over; and that priest is reckoned the best who can say it fas-eft; five or six of them read together in a very confused manner, one conning a prayer, another galloping through a chapter, a third spoiling a psalm, and so on. Every priest is called pope, which implies father, as pope or father Paul; pope Nicholas, a bishop, is distinguished by the name of metropolitan, and the patriarch or chief priest is filed proto-pope: the parish priests are difiin. gushed in their dress, from the laity, only by their bald pates being covered with a red leather cap, and two small pieces of fluff tacked upon each breast; they wear blue, red, yellow, or whatever colour they like best. The crown of their heads is always kept shaven, but they never curtail the rest of their hair, nor their beards : they must have wives, but only one, according to St. Paul's rule, during the v.hole life, for which reason they ufi their wives with great tenderness, as their priest hood ceases X hen the wife dies.,In baptizing, the ceremony is much like that o he church of Rome, but with this difference, tha they immerse the whole body of the child in th water; they formerly used to buy infidels on pur,p0
pose to oblige them to become Christians, but this custom has, for some' years palt, been abolished. Whoever chuses to make public profession of their religion, whether Protestant or Papist, muff re ounce lis former baptism, together with his fa ther and mother, and spit three times over his shoulder Some ancient inhabitants of the country have observed, that of a great number of English, Scotch, and Dutch, who have abjured their own, and ac knowledged the Russian religion, scarcely one has died a natural death.,Moitof the Muscovite marriages are determined upon without much ceremony; the woman is first examined shark naked by five or six of her-friends, and if they find any bodily defeat, they endeavour to cure it. Perhaps the bridegroom never sees her till he comes to be joined with her for life: the nuptial solemnity is brief; when the pries has tied the knot, the sexton throws hops on her, and wishes her to prove as fruitful as that plant; another officer of the church in a goat's Akin coat with the hair outward attends her home, she being led by old women, covered up so close that not any part of her is to be seen, and he prays all theway that (he may have as many children as there are hairs on his coat; the parish priest carries the cross all the way before her, from the church to her hus band's house, who is escorted by a company of young meanwhile the new married couple are at table, where bread and salt is laid before them, a chorus of boys and girls ting an epithalamium so grossly impudent, that it is intolerable to a virtuous' ear; after this ceremony, the bride and bridegroom are conducted to their bed-chamber by an old woman, who advises the wife to obey her husband; the husband to love his wife: then the bridegroom sits down, and bids her chuse one of his buskins, to,K 6 draw
draw off, having in one of them a whip, and its the other a purse of money or a jewel; if ie happens to pitch on that in which the latter is, it is thought a happy omen; but should he light on the whip, it is interpreted into bad luck, and the husband ives her a lash with it, as a token of what the is to expect; aster this ceremony, they are left alone for a couple of. hours, and then the old women return and examine whether the figlnsof virginity are apparent; in which case she ties up the hair that before hung loose over her shoulders, and goes to the mother to demand the marriage portion the Russians ue their wives with great inhumanity though of late years they are something re formed in this particular; and it has been known that a tradesman of Moscow has burned his wife to death in a smock dipped in spirits of wine, having first beaten her very severely; yet he was never once called to an account for the murder: the laws of Russia not deeming a wife's death, in consequence of the husband's correction, any of fence. They sometimes tie them by the hair of the head to a beam, and whip them to death: but these severe punishments are seldom administered except it be for adultery and drunkenness, and now seldom or never; because the bridegroom is obliged to sin certain marriage articles,, whereby he binds himself to treat his wife according to her quality; to allow her good meat and dink, and neither whip, scratch nor kick her.,The woman who kills her husband, is buried in the earth up to the neck, and so left to expire. Few marriages are performed here without being attended with charms and conjurations; and it is said by exorcisms of this nature, a man has been prevented from enjoying his wife; however, he may ,recover his virility, and overcome these reftriflions,by
by the assistance of the white magician, who may be procured for a small sum of money. The canon law forbids the conjugal commerce on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, and whoever transgress it, mutt bathe before he enters the church porch: the man that takes to himself a second wife, must not enter the church farther than the door; and he, who marries a third time, is excommunicated If a woman is barren, the husband is at liberty to beat her into a humour of retiring to a convent, affair means won't induce her. When the czar of Muscovy ha a mind to marry, he does it among his own people; the most beautiful young women that the empire affords are sought for and presented to him, and from among them he chuses according to his fancy.,It is fid that Alexis Michaelowitz, father to Peter the first, was prevented from marrying a very handsome girl, to whom he was strongly attached, by the contrivance of his chief minister Boaris Juanowitz, who procured a match between him and Mary, daughter of Eliah Danelowitz, a man of mean origin, but of a good fortune; he was a woman. of no extraordinary beauty, but witty, cunning, and apparently devout and modest. As the statesman knew that openly pretending to op pose the czar's inclination, might not only be ineffectual but also perhaps purchase his aversion, he bribed the women who were t present the crown to the lady whom his matter had chosen, to tie her hair so very hard, as to throw her into a swoon, whereupon they gave out he had the fall ing sickness ;- and her father who brought her to court, was accused of treason, whipt in an ignominious manner, and banished into Siberia.,After this accident, Boaris prevailed upon. his sovereign to espouse Mary, and he consented for fear of being bewitched which he was tacitly made disbelieve
believe would be the consequence 'of his refusal. The artful minister wedded Mary's sister, hoping to aggrandize himself by this alliance, and to secure his interest at court upon a foundation not to be shaken; but though he acquired many advantages by it, he sacrificed what was beyond them all, his peace. It could not prove otherwise; he was old, consequently jealous; the was young and hand some ; he soon quarrelled with her, and caused Mr. W illimrr Barley, a Worcestershire gentleman, with whom he thought her too familiar, to be ba. rifhd into Siberia. This gentleman, after being in exile twenty years, returned to Moscow, made profession of the Russian religion, and married a woman of a very large fortune, with whom he lived in the mos splendid manner the czar, by one chance, discovering that the fainting fit of his intended wife was only casual, it grieved him extremely ; he recalled her father, and fettled upon him and hera very considerable pension; while she carefully preserved the ring and handkerchief that he had given her, in re membrane of the dignity he had been so near obtaining; nor would he ever content to marry, tho' he had many considerable offers made to her: none of the czarina Mary's relations, not even her father or uncle dared to mention their being a-kin to the royal family, though the latter possessed some very considerable pnis.,The czarowitz, or prince royal, is kept from every vulgar eye, under the care of a few people to whom his education is entrusted, till he is fifteen years of age; when he i publicly exposed in the market place, that the. muscovites may be certain of his identity; for they have had impostors put upon them often: nor will the ordinary sort of people here permit their children to stand in the way o being gazed at, because they reckon that there i,il
ill luck in the eyes of strangers. They wean their infants, who are commonly wrong and robust, in less than a couple of months; after which, they give them a cow's dry dug set either in horn, or silver to suck, and make them keep stria fails at two years old.,C H A P. XI. Ha'-dfips lid on te young people of Ruin ; thir severe sis ; several orts of hands deemed by ;hem impute; of te several kinds of mushrooms used in this country ; the advantages of their fuss to the nation in general; their pearce; an acount of the fiji ereion of the patriarchal dignity) of l4os- row ; Palm Sunday pompous celebrated; a corns c'lfloiy of an ignorant Jer/vait; eggs printed at Enafer ; the wsnoen great :drinks; the great de bauchry of the people in general; an account of their mimic. rH E young people who depend either on pa-rents or superiors, dare not upon any ac count refute the husband or wife chosen for them. And it was in vain for a Dutch widow, who was very rich, to plead that the had made a vow never to marry again, when Boaris had pitched upon her as a good match for one of his friends: the answer that Boaris's lady, to whom he complained of the severity of his injunction, made, was, What, " would you dishonour my lord and my husband, " by making him break his word with his friend, " and rejecting his choice ?",They have four general fasts in the year, during which time they live on cabbage, cucumbers, and rye bread, drinking nothing but quali, a liquor not so wrong as small beer; not even tasting fish, and reckoning it a transgression to drink after asian
man who has eat fled ; to use a knife that has cut meat in les than twenty-four hours after, or to take any thing, though ever so essential even to their health, wherein there is hart's horn, sugar, sugar candy, or pi!. lepor.,There are many sorts of viands, which they reckon impure, as horse efh, veal, elk, bare, and rabbit, neither will they touch ashes-milk, mare's milk, nor Venice treacle, because it is partly made cf viper's flie ; nor any thing in which there's mixed turf, civet, or the flesh of the. castor. Yet they are no Jews, for they have good bacon, and in one of the czar's magazines, which was some time ago burnt down,. were consumed no ifs than six thousand flitches.,Ruffa produces a great variety of mushrooms, which are a vas relief to. the poor, and.form al ways a course at the tables of the rich; there are above a thousand waggon loads of them sold yearly in Moscow; among which there are scarcely - any of those that the botanists rank in the class of,poisons. There is an early species of them called the fmitfikes or honey-mushrooms ; Gerard counts tr.em venomous, and calls them fungi farinofi; they are very dear, and served up as a great deli lacy to the tables of all the Russian nobility, in pies, soups, &c. but the earliest sort of all are the gibbets, which are. brown, or rather of a deep yellow with a tail like a pilaster, and swelling out in the middle. The vanities are brown and black, with some red intermixed, they are sharp on the top; the growzdys are perforated like a honey comb, and the juice of them is so very bitter a.d tart. as to cause very painful blisters in the mouth, if they are tasted before being boiled: and there are others of a more luscious oily nature, distinguished by the name of maftamies, which signifies,fat
fat or oily; and these last are Subdivided into very different classes were it not for their satis, the Muscovites would be in want of meat often, because they shut up their cattle in houses during five or six months of winter, nor, were it otherwise, would the peasants give themselves much trouble about increasing their fock; left when they had so done, their chief should carry all away;. an instance of oppression which is not unusual. They sometimes abstain from every sort of food but bread, salt, and cucumbers, and their drink is fair water; they, bend their bo dies like a bow, and strike their heads against an image, and this is a common penance with them the patriarch of Russia is the head of the church, which was subject to the patriarch of Constantinople till 1588, when Hieronomo, who had filled the chair very unworthily for some years, was degraded by the Greek clergy. He thereupon came to Moscow from Constantinople, and for a certain sum of money to be paid him by the czar Theodore Juanowitz, offered to resign his dignity. to the metropolitan Jacob; to whom accordingly, he delivered the staff and tiara, on the i5th of January in the abovementioned year, in the church. ( f our lady, having first made a laboured oration. Besides the public ceremony, he gave an instrument in his on hand-writing, confirming what !he had done;. after, which, he retired. from Mos Cow! loaded with rich presents. This patriarch, f.v the historians who mention the transaction, was a fellow of most infamous character; a liar, as fa'tle and as impudent as ever Greece, of which h: 'mas a native, produced: he had been formally and legally expelled from the patriarch's chair, and consequently ha no right to transfer the dignity w|,h which he pretended to past; however, as i. fiv'ed a round sum of money to the nation, which.,went
went before this occurrence yearly' by way of ecclesiastical tribute to Constantinople, the czar con firmed the metropolitan Jacob's election; and the Russian clergy no longer acknowledged any other patriarchal festival is observed in Russia with so much pomp and ceremony as Palm-sunday: there is then a process of the most magnificent nature, and before it a hundred men are ordered to clean the streets through which it is to pass; the czar assists at it on foot, dressed in cloth of gold, his train borne up by the greatest men in the nation, and the whole court attending him. He is ime. lately preceded by the officers of his houshold, the firs of whom carries his handkerchief upon his arm, lying upon another of the richest em broidery; he flops at a sort of free-shone platform. where turning to the east, and bending his body almost double, he says a few prayers, and pro deeds to the church of Jerusalem, which is but a very little distance from this resting-place, where he says about an hour ; in his return to his palace, the bridle of the patriarch's horse rests upon the czar's arm; the horse, whose head is held by a boy or nobleman, is covered with white linnen, and the patriarch, holding a cross and distributing be editions, sits sideways upon it like a woman: the bridle is three ells long, and is supported by three gentlemen who follow the czar; the patriarch wears a flat cap at that time, edged with ermine, and finely adorned with loops and buttons osgood and diamonds; before him are displayed several pieces of fluff, each three or four ells long, and a different colour one from another. About five hun died priests afliPt at this ceremony, all covered with such cats a; are sometimes seen in the hands of the Roman catholic clergy: those of them who are nearest the patriarch, bear pictures of the holy,virein
virgin, ornamented with gold, jewels, and beads of pearl, and others books and crosses, &c. Some of them carry the gospels, which are surprisingly va liable; a single leaf has been known to cool six thousand pound the lawyers and other gentlemen carry in their hands branches of willow instead of palm, while the procession is passing, in which I should have observed there is borne a triumphal arch, contain ing an apple-tree, the fruit of which several little boys fixed for that purpose in the machine, endeavour to reach i the czar's guards, as well as other operators, prostrate themselves on the ground. After the ceremony, the czar is presented by the patriarch with a purse containing a hundred rubles, and perhaps he afterwards honours him with his company to dinner. From a niche in the church of Jerusalem, the patriarch gives his blessing to the people, concluding it with there words, " Go and eat nothing for " three days." Which injunction having been heard by a servant of an English merchant, who was a native of a very-distant province, was un derftocd according to the letter, and the poor fellow absolutely fulfilled it; however, he swore he would never go to church again to receive the patriarch's blessing, which he rather thought a curse, being almost starved. Easter is a season of great merriment with them, not only for the blessing in remembrance of which it is observed, but because it puts an end to their long and. every fast; at that time the salute is, ' Christ is risen," and the answer is, " Yea, he "is truly risen ;" and they also present one another With eggs finely painted of blue, red, green, and other colours; one of these eggs cost two rix-dollars a-piece: while this festival continues, all the czar's household kiss the patriarch's hand ; and,ta
to people of the first quality he gives three eggs,. to others two, and to those of an inferior rank one.,No merry-meeting is concluded among the Russians without drunkenness, and this is so common even among the women of fashion, that the usual answer to a lady's message, inquiring after the welfare of her guests,. on the ensuing day, is, "thank your mistress for the good cheer with " which-she entertained memor I was so merry. " that I can't recollect how I got home." He who dies without confession and extreme unction, is not allowed Christian burial, and there is something ridiculous enough in their ceremony of bu dying; for as soon as the breath has left the body, it is put into a coffin, and at the crown of the head is laid a piece of bread, that the deceased may not be hungry on his road to heaven; to pre serve him from being fatigued,, a pair of black shoes are put on the feet; for his other necessary expences, some fall pieces-of money are put into the mouth; and in one hand is lodged a scroll of paper directed tost. Nicholas, and signed by the,.rifh priest, who therein asserts the deceased to .have been a man of a good life. If he has left behind hin a wife, she is forced not only to appear inconsolable herself, but to hire other women to mourn fr her; who in a very difmal.ltrain of la mein:at!or ask such questions as these," Ah ! my dear! why did you die? wherefore " did you leave us ?b had you not a wife who was " exceedingly dutiful ? did not flie bring forth " handsome children an' take good care of your " house was flee not kind and lovely ? I am ure " she did all in her power to serve you, and never "le: you .want for good brandy ? had you not as -' much as you could possibly drink?"
It seems they look upon brandy to be the liquor of immortality, and they have a sort so very Strong, that it is said to take fire in the mouth, so that they have generally milk at hand wherewith to quench i:; and without this remedy, the country people imagine themselves in great danger. The carnival is celebrated. by the Muscovites in the most deb lunched manner, and they drink so hard the week immediately preceding Lent, that one would imagine they were laying in a rock for life. 'Many of them going home after having taken in more than they can bear, fall down in the snow, and are fro zen to death; and if they chance to be found by any of their acquaintance in that condition, it is a ,great chance if they are relieved; for should they expire in the hands of the assistant, he is examined by a person called the judge of the Zemfy because, who makes him pay dearly for his charity there are few carnivals without two or three hundred such accidents, and it is not uncommon to see nine or ten dead bodies of people, who have perished in this manner, drawn all together upon one sledge; one perhaps with a piece gnawed from the shoulder or the face, and another of which nothing is left but bones: those that expire thus, are either left two or three days in a certain public place to be owned, or else carried to the bogzi-dome or house of God, in which is a vaulted cave, wherein perhaps three or four hundred car cases lie at one time, and these the priests inter one after another in St. John's church-yard ; after which the grave, for a whole-month, is only co vexed with a thick mat to keep out the rain, and the priest reads a psalm over it once a day. The sacred images kept in their houses by the Muscovites were generally coarse and ugly, and it was usual to answer, " That their gods were not,proud,"
- proud," to such as asked why they represented them so very deformed. When an image was grown old or disliked by its owner, it was carried to him who made it, and with a little money was given in lieu of a new one; in this sort of traffic, there never was any thing said, the vender pushing the purchaser from him without speaking a word, till he offered up to his liking those that were deemed entirely useless, were sung with a piece of silver into the water, with this farewell, either, " Adieu brother," or, " God " be with you my brother." If a church chanced to be burned, they only said it had ascended; and they said the same of their images, which are the rft things they save from a fire. There images they call their St. Nicolafes, and dress them in the most splendid manner, giving them often, thus ornamented, to the church in which they pay their devotions. The priests caused a poor woman's hands to be cut fs for taking a ruby or two from an image of her own, which he had defied up when in good circumstances: her distress was very great, he had formerly represented it to St. Ni colas, and only asked him to lend her those jewels, which the took because he made no reply; in. interpreting his silence into content. The St. Ni classes that are kept in private houses are also very splendidly set off, but it often happens, upon an emergency, that they are stripped by their owners stark naked neither the monks nor nuns of Rufia are bound down by the firmest rules; the former trade in horses, hops, wheat, or any thing they can make money of; and the latter go abroad just when they please, taking more liberties than become their sex, not to talk of their profession. Those who are proved heretics are flung from the top of a lo,Â»L" 7 b Â· hould 7
louse into a fire made close to it, wherein they are burned to ashes. A late patriarch has forbid the making of mu fiscal instruments, as tending to enervate the people and damage the state; however, they are fondest of the bag-pipe, and they have a violin with a bel ly like a lute, but they cannot play more than four or five notes, their gamut being not at all varied, for they use ga, ga, ge, instead of fol, fa, la; they borrow it either from the Greeks or Sclavonians: their cadences are the most extravagant in the world, and nothing can be conceived more ridiculous than their wretched imitation of the Italian recitative. Jt is a little odd that their music Should be o wretched, as they have public schools wherein it is taught to their children with great care and exaa- nets. The beggars of Muscovy ask alms, and set forth their grievances in a piteous sort of recitative; and this occasioned a Muscovite ambassador at the Hague, for whose entertainment the best vocal and instrumental performers were provided, to answer to one who axed him how he liked the perform ance, Very well indeed; the beggars with us "display their profession in the very same man " ner." The warlike music of these people is the kettle-drum; they have some bra's hunting-horns and trumpets, which they know not rightly how to manage. Dancing they think much beneath their gravity; but their Tartarean and Polish slaves are called in, to divert their hours of dissipation and revelling with uncouth measures. The government of Muscovy is absolute mo anarchy. Here are few written laws; custom is the general rule of the courts of justice, which are cal ed precludes, and the sentence pronounced by the judge (when he is not bribed, a failing to which e is very liable) is decisive. The clerks kneel, tho' hey have tables before them, and write their lines,very
very far distant from one another, by which mains they waste a deal of paper, and increase the expence of their client, who suffers as much in the hands of-there harpies, who are called podiacks, and their principal dick, as if his affairs were under the di. region of an English attorney. their law business runs like petition, and the sheets containing it are rolled up, and presented by the advocate to the judge, or to a boyar who superintends him; if he thinks proper to fill the bench ;. and he answers by his secretary, by whom business is but slowly dis. patched, if the advocate is not permitted to cross his palm: the touch of money roues him from his inattention, and ins ires him with expedition. The Russian alphabet consist of forty-two charters, most of them Greek.,CHAP. XII. 'i'. ir cour's cf justice and usage of criminals; their propensity o mz.ny crimes f a very horrid na:run; their prodigious veneration for St. Nicsl,s; the' in. nTr in ubich great men atone fr the' i rained character of the Russian language; a ch.iraai.r the Poles introduced; great barbarity in the Pj laws; the Poles a very nasty people ; powdering its hair firs? zifd by the ; one acquit of the c4e' tins and manners of the Circassians ; Ria rv'j;lh from ite Tartarean government; a remarkable frl of a Elij7) ambojfadr.,H E proceedings in general of the Muslin . courts of judicature are too confused for i to pretend giving a rifling account of them. There is one etabiilfed in every province, the head o x which represents the czar, and has under hin chancellor, dick or secretary, fub-fecretaJies, Crisis
the judge is not corrupted, the plaintiff is almost sure to obtain a verdit in his favour. 1 Criminals are seldom condemned to death in Russia; whipping is a common punishment; but they have others to which death is far preferable. A murderer may be brought off for a certain um and if no body else prosecutes a murderer, the ma grate never does. No man can be conviCted of a capital crime unless he confesses it himself. but the means used to force that confession are terrible indeed ! The criminal first undergoes the firapado; if he continues silent, he is lashed by the common executioner with a cat a-nine-tails, six or oven blows of which might kill, if forcibly applied; his sides are fometimes:pierced with red-hot irons; or his bones are slit, salted, and hanging ill to his body, broiled on a slow fire; should he still prove mute, great pains are taken to cure his wounds, and if he survives, these torments are re seated after twenty days. At other times the poor wretch is half stead; and if he bears all out with resolution, the horrid scene is closed by dropping boiled lead regularly on his head, for that purpose close f{hven.,A coiner is forced to swallow one metal melted, of the coin which he counterfeited. A man who shot an owl in the court-yard of the palace, had his right-hand and left leg cut off, because some of the shot chanced to enter the czar's chamber. Traitors after being severely tortured, are went into Si beria, perhaps with their eyes pulled out, or their ears cut off, abandoned on the road to perish hanging offenders is' a- practice very lately intro duce into Russia; it was formerly not allowed of, because they supposed the soul was thereby forced through the fundament, and that it could not pass that way without being defiled. The criminal is obliged to tie the rope about his own neck, and to,VOL. V. L fling
fling himself off when the executioner bids him. Though the office of hangman is not so reputable here as in France, where it confers gentility, if you will believe him who enjoys-it, yet it is hereditary, and the father is careful to give his children a true knowledge of the trade. Neither sodomy nor bes. quality are here, as in other countries, punished with death; to prevent these beastly practices, which are too common, marriage is prodigiously encouraged for to such an height had they reached some time ago, that a fellow being surprised closely intriguing with a cow, cried out to him who caught him in this abominable aion, " Ne misery;" which is as much as to say, " Do not disturb me;" and from that time forward this unnatural crime has been called, ne mislead. Criminals used, till very lately, to be brought to a trial at Moscow, from all parts of the kingdom, which was expensive and inconvenient the people who inhabit about Archangel and Cola look upon St. Nicholas as a god; and it would-be as much as a man's life is worth to seem to sus pe the truth of their affirming that be sailed from Italy to a place near Archangel, called St. Ni. nicholas's Port, upon a millstone they celebrate festivals in honour of other saints but him they hold in the greatest esteem, saying, he was one of themselves, and a native f Russia, con sequently he must naturally have more regard for them than .St. Peter or St. Paul, who never knew them. The boyars or great men, who are wealthy, having perhaps amassed their riches by plundering strangers, or invading the property of neighbouring nations, think that, by building churches, which they furnish with a good ring of bells, and several richly adorned St. Nicholas, they expiate all their offences in the sight of heaven. The Russian, except those who are a little polished by traffic,with
with foreign nations, are all barbarous and brutal the language of Russia, in which there are forty two characters, some of them Greek, differs from that of Poland as the Scotch dialect does from the Englifi ; and though the latter is counted more polite and expressive, it is not in reality less harl; for in some words there are six consonants, together, without one intervening vowel, so that they cannot be spoken without sputtering the Muscovites cannot go out of the czar's do minions without his leave, which is not easily obtain ed; and this restrain gives the Poles, who may travel whither they please, an opportunity of excel lengthen in manners: yet the Poles, with all their advantages, are stil less polished than their southern neighbours; they are proud, ignorant, prodigal, ostentatious, and self conceited ; they asset shewy horses and rich furniture, these being what first tike the eye; they are willing to entertain strangers in order to give impressions of their grandeur, for three or four days, but not longer; in that time they display their utmost vanity, and make their guests four or five times drunk, for they drink as hard, or rather harder than the Russians, and there is scarcely a gentleman in all Poland who has not been maimed or wounded, for they are very quarrelsome in their cups, at some drunken bout. The laws of Poland are o barbarous, that a murderer is only fined in a certain sum of money. To kill a clown costs about five crowns, and the price rises in proportion to the rank in life of the person mur tered. The regal power is prodigiously con fined; the king can do nothing without the con sent of the general diet; and it is in the power of one member to prevent a point of the utmost con sequence from being carried, by laying his hand to .is sword, which implies his readiness to opponent. Nothing can be done here without unanimity. Hen-,L 2 ry
ry III. who afterwards reigned in France, found the Polish crown such a burden, that he refused to keep it pon any terms the muscovites, when they conquered Villa, and some provinces on the Polish frontiers, were posed by the Polish women; the disorder was unknown before that time in Rufia, but common in Poland, as well as a scurf called plica, caused by drinking wa. ter, that flows over strata of arsenic whereby it is 'impregnated. Once this got footing in a family, it spread round, and every member was sure of being infected perhaps no distemper can be more loathsome ; it is not only offensive in the highest de.' gree to the eye but to the nose; for no old ulcer can smell worse, yet it is thought a sign of health, and a mark of quality a gentleman has but a bd opinion of himself if he is without it. The hair of the monks as well as gentry is often seen so clotted together, that the sight is enough to turn one's stomach those horses which are touched with it are deemed most bold and serviceable; their tails are often glowed together with the matter issuing from the sores, and if ever so little of it becut off, the beast either runs mad, dies, or by falling lame, blind, &c. is rendered unfit for use. Its said, that to hide this scurf, the Planters fill brought up the fashion of powdering the hair, which was from them copied by other European nations: nor is this improbable, for starch is a great manu. facere in Poland.,The Muscovites in private affairs are very faith. ful; they abhor nothing so much as a false oath, and yet they scruple not breaking the most solemn alliances, and the mob; explicit public treaties, if their interest Should require it. The Russians bow very low when they salute i the Poles are more stately and upright; the Tartars clasp the knees of their superior;, but equals they salute by {haking,one
one hand, and putting a finger of the other on the mouth of him whom they address; and the Circassians inquire after the welfare of the servants, cows, sheep, dogs, horses, cocks, hens, and turkeys of him whom they compliment. The Circassians inhabit part of Tartary, where the soil is more temperate and fertile than that of Russia; they are swarthy in their complexions, and barbarous in their manners. The women are fat, and so given to drinking, that at a public enter attainment they are generally seen to reel before the victuals are served up; then they eat themselves so ber, get drink a second time, and a second time dispel the fumes of their excess, by dancing, of which they are very fond, or.fome other agreeable exercises Their common musical instrument is a fid idle, and he who cannot play must not expect to be a favourite with the ladies the Circassians having in'an insurrection destroyed all their nobility, they are now divided into tribes, each governed by a colonel chosen by the people, who make very free both with his person and office. Their religion is the same with that of Russia, with this difference, that the Russians allow no strangers to enter their church-doors, while the Circassians throw theirs open to every body, and receive Strangers in general with the greatest hospitality and kindness. They are much addicted to witchcraft, and it is a favourite study with the women of quality, not only here but in other parts of Tartary. Russia was under the dominion of the Tartars till 1479, when John sovereign duke of Volfdo- mir, a man of great bravery, seized on Moscow, and drove the Tartars out of the empire ; his successor John Bafilowitz, sirnamed the Tyrant, raised the reputation-of the Russians, before that time the contempt of the north, very considerably ; he was., 3 courage-courageous
and prudent, but very whimsical: he ene day presented to his secretary of state an hum able petition, signed by himself, in which he entreat. ed him to raise for him, against a certain time specie. sied, an army of two hundred thousand men; in return for which he promised always to remember him in his prayers. The secretary, who knew his oddities, raised the army as fard as possible, and with it John made himself maker of Siberia, and several other large territories. He was kind so the commonalty, and severe to the nobility; for which reason he was very dear to the populace. He ge. heralds carried a stick in his hand with a harp iron point, wherewith he used to prick the boyars in the kegs as he talked to them, and he who bore this tor ture without flinching, he ever after valued.,He fined the inhabitants of Bologna severely for cheating their customers with a short yard; and one Englishmen having unthinkingly laughed at his freaks, he ordered them to be brought into his presence, and to frighten them, ordered they should be stripped stark naked; however, he only punished them by setting them to pick up pease, five or six baskets of which were, for that purpose scattered about the chamber; when he had thus tired them heartily, he ordered them to be refreshed with li quod, then dismissed them, with an admonition to behave better for the future, telling them they should not escape so well another time.,It was John Bafilowitz who ordered the hat of an ambassador to be nailed to his head, for appear. in covered in his pretence; but this did not in imitate Sir Jeremy Bowes, ambassador from queen Elizabeth to Moscow, from boldly wearing his hat in his pretence; John thereupon asked him, if he had not heard how he had punished an ambassador already, for presuming to take such a liberty; " Yes, Sir, answered Sir Jeremy, but I am the'" queer
queen of England's ambassador, who never yt , flood bareheaded to any prince whatsoever her I - represent, and on her I depend to do me right if " I am insulted." " A brave fellow this,, says the '; czar, turning to one of his nobles, who dares to " at and talk thus for his mistress's honour; ,, which of you would do as much for me ?" The ambassador became a favourite with hieland this favour procured him the envy of the nobility one of-whom, having orme influence over the' czar, advised him to try Sir Jeremy's kill in. horse manship, for which he was famous, in breaking one that was wild, an experiment in which he hoped' Sir Jeremy might break his neck; but he had the mortification to find. himself disappointed ; for the gallant Englishman not only backed,. but. tired him,- so that he lay down under him, lost his mettle, and died in a few days This adventure recommended him till more strongly to the czar, who ever after distinguished him in the moi honourable mann erin a progress which this czar made through the different parts of his empire, not only the boyars or nobility, but almost every body, so well was he be loved, made him presents; among others a. hoe maker determined to how his loyalty, after having' consulted with his wife in what manner this might best be dore, rooted up a very large turnip that grew in his garden, which together with a pair of hopkins or shoes, he laid at the czar's feet, who was so pleated with the gift that he ordered his whole court to buy (hoes of him, and pay twice their value,. whereby the shoemaker was soon en riches, and left a good estate among his children,, who were distinguished by tl-e name of Lopofikies. Near this shoemaker's house flood a tree, at which every traveller in remembrance of him throws off his old hoes the czar, by one frange chance apprised of,L. 4- the.
the views of a gentleman who, 'from the enccu. regiment given the shoemaker,. expected also one vast recompence for his loyalty, ordered the shoe maker's turnip to be presented to him in return for a very fine horse.,It is said of John Bafilowitz, that one winter's day he rambled out in a very mean dress, to a vil lage in the neighbourhood of Moscow, at every house of which he to no purpose entreated a long. ing, till he came to the hut of a poor man, whole wife was in labour, and who regaled him to the best of his abilities; in return he told him that he would visit him the next day, and bring godfathers and godmothers to preside at the christening of his child. According to which promise he came with a very splendid train, made a rich man of his host, and-ordered every house in the village, his except ed, to be burned, and the inhabitants to be turn. ed into the fields, telling them, that perhaps they might prove more charitable when they themselves experienced the inclemency of a winter-sky, and knew what it was to be exposed during a cold long night, without covering or provision, to the rigor of the seasonable made one in a gang of robbers, and propos ed plundering the royal treasury, offering to shew them an easy way to do it; the fellow to whom he spoke about it, gave him a sound box on the ear, and told him he was a rascal for daring to think of abusing so good a prince, when there were so many rich boyars who preyed upon him, and were not only fair ane, but would yield a good boot) outol what they filched from the czar. This answer pleas. ed John so very well, that he changed caps with him, ard bade him meet him the next day at )u- ret, to be merry over a cup of brandy and metheglin The robber kept the appointment, and was lur prized o meet the czar, who called to him, gave,him
him good advice, and to enable him to observe it, conferred on him a place at court, and through his means destroyed the gang to which he belonged the czar Michael, grandfather to Peter the Greats was a prince of great humanity and virtue, very kind to strangers, and ambitious of being upon good terms with the other christian powers of Europe: be would have given his daughter in marriage to count Holier, natural son to the king of Den mark, but the Russian clergy opposed it because he was a heretic ; whereupon the Danish prince challenged him to dispute the truth of their respective religious tenets with one of his chaplains, which they declined; at which refusal the czar Michael was very angry, saying, they propelled a strange sort of faith if it was not to be defended by reason and argument after which reprimand he was seized about bed-time with a violent vomiting, and died, not without suspicion of priestly poison, as a passport to heaven, before the next morning. His empress did not long survive him, and the match was there upon dropped. He had two sons, the'elder of whom died young; he was a prince of great bi cities, but very cruel in his childish years, taking great delight in torturing pigeons, by plucking out their eyes, and then wringing off their heads, call ing them rebels and traitor's C HAP.
Chap. XIII. acme ant:doits relating t Peter the Great's father; h- his charter a very good one; his grief for killing an .osier: Russia greatly depopulated in his reign, ani the rea fons for it given: the history of Boaris bhi bing banijhbedfrom court, and recalled: his fe. during the regard of the people, and dies universals regretted: the Russian government well regulated iv mai;y things by Eliah Danelwitz : the character of .Sajhokin chancellor of the empire: the word czar ex:laircd: his many titles, immense revenues and richs.,H E czarowitz Alexis Michaelowitz succeed T ed his father Michael; he was a man about six foot high, full and sanguine, of a very noble presence, generous and good natured, but cruel in his anger. It was remarkable that he never shaved his beard. Being one day solicited to sign the death. warrant of a deserter, he refused it, saying, it was unreasonable he hould die for want of so much cou rage as another, when God had not thought proper to bestow it. He was very devout, not at all de touched, a kind parent, a good father, and a loving husband. He assisted morning and evening at public worship ; and if his health did not permit that attendance, service was performed in his chamber. He used to fast at least eight months out of the twelve, during general fasts making no set meals, ex kept on Saturdays, Sundays, and Tuesdays; on the other days eating only brown bread and salt, with cucumbers or pickled mushrooms, and drinking no thing but a little small beer. At public processions he always assisted bareheaded, provided the weather was dry; he furnished a good example to his people of morality and religion ; but he wouldst not
not permit them to leave large legacies to the church; and in cafes:of extremity, under pretence of borrow ing, did not scruple-to take the plate destined for the service of the altar ;to this expedient he was obliged,. his own finances being not. otherwise sufficient,. the church at least possessing two thirds of the empire's riches., On the night osgood Friday it was customary with him to visit the prisons, discharges debtors, pardon some criminals, and relieve others. in a few words, he had numberless good qualities. and had he not sometimes been misguided by his ministers, might have been ranked among the wis es princes of his time.,He seldom drank hard; his common liquor was small beer enlivened with oyl of cinnamon or cinna-~ mon-water, which is in great use among the people of quality in Rufia; as alto a drink not unlike oat ale, which is called prague, as well as rye-bread,, deemed by the Russians wholesome than wheaten bread, and of this he was very fond. He used to be pleased with making his attendants:drunk,: that he might-thus see their-various humours; and'. he always sent a dish from his own table to his, greatest favourites. On Easier-day his nobility-and' gentry kissed his hand,. and. he-presented them with eggs.,At about a league distant from Moscow he ere - ed a large and commodious workhouse, richly en cowed for the-reception of the poor, who are: therein employed in manufacturing hemp and. flaxen He also built an hospital within the precious of his own palace, for the maintenance of old men in distress, with whom he often delighted to discourse; of old times. One of the finest sights in the world' was to see him and his court encamped at Ora fankfy, a country-place about three miles from. Moscow, where he generally spent part of the sum i mer, in the most magnificent tents, is own beings 6 cloth
cloth of gold lined with fables; that of the czarina, of cloth of silver, lined with ermines; those of the other nobility made of rich stuffs and elegant lin. kings; and in the midst ofall,.one of a molt splendid appearance, which served for a church: guards were posed at proper defiances to keep every thing in due order, and all around were placed palisades to ex dude the mob. The czar Alexis always regreted his having stabbed thro' the heart a man who. when he went on a journey pressed forward to speak to him, a liberty which is forbid to every subject; wherefore he suffered this man of a design to as fascinate him. On the deceased's being searched he was found to be quite unarmed, and to have in tended only presenting a petition to the czar, whom he had no other way of approaching, craving that justice might be done him upon Peter Stelicoro, go vernon of White Russia, under whom he served as a captain, and who owed him three years pay, which he did not think fit to pay him. Stelicoro was sent. fer to court, stripped of his honours and possessions, and banished in the most wretched circumstances, the czar saying, that the blood of the deceased should lie at Stelicoro's door, he being the real cause of his death.,He was fond of hunting fallow-deer, and, pro. vide he ran them down, never minded killing them: he used often to fowl with falcons, and al ways lay in his flirt and drawers under a rich quilt of skin, having but one sheet over and one under him; in his reign the country of Russia was so extremely depopulated, that along the banks of the Volga six women were to be met for one man ; and this scarcity was caused partly by the inroads of the Tartars, who carried above three hundred thou sand of the natives into captivity, partly by his own inclination to war, which often hurried him into violent bloody disputes with his neighbours, and by.,a peRi-pestilence
which destroyed eight hundred thousand men in six years many Jews were introduced to his court through the means of a Jewish surgeon who pretended to be a Lutheran, and had established himself at Mos. cow, by pimping for Bogdan Matfeig, high flew ard of the czar's houshold. Matfeig was bred up as the czar's companion, by whom he was .held in very great esteem., His wife becoming jealous of him on account of his keeping many concubines, particularly Polish girls, of whom he was very fond, grew so intolerably ill-humoured, that he poisoned her; but the people, among whom some of his foes whispered the murder, murmuring at it, the czar left it to his choice, either to marry a wife and for sake his mistresses, or quit his post. You may be persuaded that he pitched upon the former part of the alternative. The Dutch had secured disinterested by presents, and he was no friend to the English. The czar Alexis never visited any of his subjects, except his governor Boaris Juanowitz, and that but once, when he was in a very bad state of health.,Boaris had been a great favourite with his fa ther, in whose education-he and a brother of his called Cleat shared; for it is usual to breed up some young people of quality upon an equal footing with the czarowitz, or son of the czar, by way of company for him. Boaris at length obtained such an ascendancy over him, that the management of all affairs, whether public or private, was intrust ed to him. He retrenched the expences of his master houshold considerably, removed to distant go governments such of the nobility as were any way to be, feared, and, superior to all their intrigues, ad danced none but those in whom he could confide. The people, stirred up by the male-contents who were out of place, accused the minister of many ad's of injustice, and to appease their clamours the,czar
czr was obliged to banish him from court, but, the commonalty found the change for the. worse; if they imagined themselves before aggrieved, they now found themselves oppressed; murmurs ensued: Boaris, who was a good politician, was soon acquainted with this lucky juncture, nor did he fail to improve the flame, in such a manner, that at length those very people who had been most forward to promote his exile, laboured for his return: it was a favour which they petitioned the czar to grant; it corresponded with his own willes,. and he gratified them. Boaris returned to court in triumph; he was restored to his former power;. his misfortunes had taught him moderation; he was more careful to oblige the people, and tenacious of their liberties; so that every day increased their esteem for him: nor were those who hid ossified his recall without feeling the effets of his gratis. tide. In short, when he died, he was-bewailed by his prince, and lamented by the people the ancient nobility alone, whose ambitious schemes he had of ten traversed, expressed little concern for so very fig nat a loss.,To him Eliah Danelowitz owed is promotion: even to the rank of general of the czar's army. We have remarked before, that the czarina was daughter to Eliah, and that the match was brought about by Boaris;. their rise was great, but owing to the czar's being accustomed to chuse a wife among his own people. Eliah had formerly kept a tavern,. and his daughter fold-mushrooms in the market: notwithstanding the meanness of his origin, Eliah was a man of abilities he was vigilant, bold,.dar- ing, and his memory so excellent, that he knew the business of every man about court; whether civil or military, and could distinguish the quarters of eighty thousand men, with the names and characters of all the different osiers besides, he waÂ»',at
at the head of the treasury, and possessed five or six other considerable pots, all which he managed, very judiciously, till his intellects were hunted by. an apple ic fit. His only fault was a tincture of avarice, which induced him to be too rapacious: however the czar, who father feared than loved him, overlooked this blemish, knowing himself to be heir to what he hoarded, in right to the czarina when Eliah's health became impaired; the ad ministration, of public affairs devolved upon Nasho- kin, a man wisdom, integrity, and temper; his behaviour in the chancellorship, the government of Russia Minor, and several other considerable char ages, in which Eliah had been his predecessor, re founded much to the honour of the Russian em pire; he concluded an advantageous peace, and formed an alliance with Poland, and made Russia the chief mart of the silk-trade of Europe, contriving to have i brought. hither from Persia and the Indies, and from thence dispersed to all parts; but. this trade was but of (short continuance.,He reformed the emperor's houshold, and regulated the imperial laws-to him was owing the power conferred upon the governor and council of every province, enabling them to pronounce fen hence in criminal causes, without removing them to Moscow as formerly; and it was his wisdom that curtailed the laws. A fellow who had abandoned the Jewish religion for the turban, and served as interpreter to the Perlan merchants at Moscow, having accused Nafhokin of being guilty of some in justice in the court of ambassadors whereof he was chancellor; the czar answered, that he would examine into it, and that if the interpreter's allegations were found false, he should sussex dearly for the slander. He kept his word; the renegado was prov ed a liar, and received thirty severe larmes, of whiche
he did not speedily recover, while the chancellor's character justice was more firmly established than ever.,Nafhokin, who was a zealous aerter of mo monarchical principles, had been often heard to say, that he wondered all the kings in Europe, instead of assisting, did not unite to destroy the Dutch, and root out all republics, which are only service. able to vagabonds and rebels, to whom they are an afylurn. having perused a news paper wherein was rehearsed the ravages committed by the plague in London, he observed, it was strange the English should chuse thus to spread the alarm of their misfortunes the wretched, said he, publish their un happy circumstances ti.at they may profit by the compassion they excite, but the English can have no manner of design in letting all the world know that their metrcp is is laid waste by a pestilence, except to warn the world to avoid them, as light houses are fixed near places of danger, teach the pilot to Run them the conduce of Eliah Nafhokin, and two other able ministers, has brought the czar's court into some seem. he word czar, which in the Russian tongue signifies emperor, is so like Cedar, that it appears evidently to be derived from it. The bearing of the czar, like that of Germany, is a spread eagle, with this difference, that to the breast of the Russian eagle is affixed St. George on horseback, and there is a mitre between the divided heads it it said the George was added by John Bafilowitz, on his being honoured with the order of the garter by queen Elizabeth, to whom it was said by some politicians f those days, he once in tended to have made proposals of marriage: be that as it will, it is certain he had a great respect for the Engulf, and once when things went very wrong with him, and an insurrection at Moscow,oiile
obliged him to quit that city, and retire with his treasures to Bologna, where he fortified himself he had some notion of taking refuge in England.,The czar's titles are, by the grace of God, great hold, czar, duke of Great, Little, and White Russia, sovereign of Moscow, Kiovia, Platonic, and No novgorod, &c. czar of Cafan, czar of African, czar of Siberia, lord of Plefcow, great duke of Smolensk, Twerko, Ugofko, Perinfko, Vealiko, Bolgaricko, lord and great duke of Novgorod, of the pro vices of Carnivora, Rhefan, Restore, Yaraflieve, Blower, Odours, Iberia, and Confined; lord of all the countries lying to the north, lord of the land Reverie, of all the duchies of. Cotileran, of Grewzintan, and of several other countries and so sovereignties, east, west, and north, which we inherit of our Lord, and the monarchs of our predecessors &c In this manner was the great feal of the. empire of Russia inscribed. The czar's dominions are ex tensive, his revenues large, and he has a vaf,-quan- city of large jewels; most of them indeed are clawed but the Russians never mind that defect., He has many palaces and country retreats, elegantly furnished, and the apartments hung with the molt beautiful tapestries. The gentlemen of his Bed chamber never enter it, but wait within call; and though he has ministers of slate that live in great splendor, they do not enjoy the same distinction that they are elsewhere used to. When the czar ap pears in public, which is only on certain days of general rejoicing, his apparel is the richest that can be imagined, and his attendants, which are very numerous, make a glorious shew. When he dines in public, which is very seldom, his nobles alto eat in his pretence; his guards are poRed round his palace, and stand as fixed and silent as if they had been the Gorgon-head. No body is ad-emitted
mitted into the inner-court whose personal attend. dance is not requisite the czar's dress differs from that of his nobles in nothing but its being richer; nor does that's the czarina vary from what her attendant ladies wear, except in her having a higher head dress and longer shirt-sleeves; her gown, as. well as those of her women, are not unlike our judges robes, trailing upon the ground. She sometimes travels by night in a chariot, with such women in her train as are necessary about her person; and at other times they hunt together astride on their heifer like men, each having a hat on her head, and a fain of silk about her neck. All the czar's issue are called czarowitzes: when the czarina is brought to bed all his subjects make him presents, and he returns them; or if he does not, he is sure to pay for them much more than their value death is the reward of him who blabs of what is done in the czar's palace, or who presumes to penetrate into his designs; and so fearful are the people, that when a gentleman inquired what was the use of a certain building, which was reed to manufacture flax and hemp in, the workmen an. swerved, that no body knew but God and the czar. The czar.was once accustomed to examine the re sisters of his chancery every night, and to maintain en of capacity as spies, who made sift to get into the houses of ambassadors and other great men, as well s to ais at weddings and other fest vals; there men faithfully observed every thing that passed, and transferred it to their matier's ears the czar is so far master of the effets of hi people, that the heirs of a subject. who dies nul petition a certain court erected for that purpose before they can enter upon his estate. He is in heritor of the possessions of those who die intestate and have no heirs, as well. as of. those who forfeited
their possessions when convicted of some capital of fence. His customs both on imports and exports are very considerable he is landlord of the brandy and beer shops, the rents of which yield him a vast sum of money, for some of them are let out at two thousand pistoles per year. The loves and baths are alfoin his property, and produce a large revenue;. for the Muscovites, men, women, and children, are obliged by their religion to bathe often, and they pay so much each time. When the bath is too hot, it is tempered with cold water, and many Russians rowl themselves in snow before they enter the stove chambers. Those who hold land immediately from the czar are obliged to furnish his houshold with provisions of all sorts, as meal, oats, honey, beer, metheglin, fish, oyl, &c. in certain quantities to each member the czar himself is the principal merchant of his own dominions, for he barters pot-ashes, hemp, and flax at Archangel for silks, fables) velvety tif sues, sattins, broad-cloth, and damask. From the martens and fable-skins, sent by the convicts Si* beria into his treasury yearly, he raies prodigious sums. His workmen colt him little or nothings and he has large profit from the brandy-hops, loves, bagnios, pitch, hemp, flax, honey, wax,. caviare, sturgeons, dry and salt-fish, that are brought from African, Cafan, the lake of Before, and the lakes and rivets that abound throughout all his dominions, but chiefly in Siberia.,CH A P
CH A P. XIV. General description of Siberia: great ineonveniedcs,in travelling through this country: the manner .sting martens: the beluga andJiurgeon described; with the different methods of preparing caviare: a description of the customs and manners of the people of Samjeda : odoriferous shrubs and flowers to be met with here: the Samojedans very jealous of their wives: the artifice of an animal called zurich: a body often rout a regiment of horse: the Grim and Kalmuck Tartars characterised. I B E Rei A is a province of vast extent, reaching even to the walls of Cathay, but it is very little known to travellers, though some people have tra, versed it even to China and the sea of the Kaimo. whites, on the north-east part of Great Tartary, or the gulf of Nankin. It would take up six years of a man's life to travel quite through Siberia, for moll part of the summer the heat will compel him to house, and most part of the winter the cold and flows make the ways impassable. Tumbut, say some, and others Sober, is the capital of this province, and the residence of the viceroy. A traveller must car ry his bread with him, for this country yields none; instead of it they use dry-fish, with which they feed their dogs, and in cold weather, for want of better provender, their cows; whereby their milk acquires a fishy table. They have filberts of a very large size, and the Chinese merchants have taught them to drink tea, by them called clay, with fu gar; they deem it exceeding good against the hypochondria indigestion, and all disorder of the lungs. They have it in papers of a pound each, with the name and weight inscribed in Chinese characters.,Their
Their sledges are drawn by thirty or forty large dogs, and in these they go a hunting, wrapped up in skins, and slay out six or seven weeks to gather, lying out whole nights in the open fields when the from is very severe; but they make good fires to keep themselves warm and broil their fill their dogsare good at starting the marten, which is to be had no where else, and the skin is the chief commodity of the country. This animal is so strong, that if he be shot quite through the body, he willefcape; the tenderest place about him is his nose, and it is here they commonly hit him, which they can do very dexterously; by these means his skin is not damaged. Sturgeons, and belgae, a fish about twelve foot long of the same species, which eats rather better salted, being whiter than veal, and delicious as marrow, especially when fresh, are found in abundance in the Volga and the river Ob, which waters this province in its passage to the Frozen Sea wherein it is swallowed up; when the melting of the snow brings the flood from the mountains, and the torrent becomes thereby ex extremely rapid; the surgeon, in order to be en able the better to resist its rapidity, is said to swallow large stones the most delicious sort of caviare is made by the people of Astrachan, out of the soft rows of the Sturgeon and beluga, mixed with salt and barrelled up, but it does not keep long. There is another sort of caviare made of the sturgeon's eggs, which are black and clammy; the Turks esteem it mightily and the Russians call it fera. Another is made of the beluga's roe only. The Armenians prepare their caviare in a different manner; having cleansed the roe and salted it, they lay it upon slant ing boards that the fat and oily parts may drain off; after which preparation they barrel it up, packed hard together, and sell it for use. The,beluga
bulge is said to have one hundred and fifty roe, and two hundred pounds eggs, which the Arme. nians call arminfko fekra.,The people who inhabit the northern parts of Siberia are reported to eat their prisoners of war, from whence they have acquired the name of Fame. sedan or Tafambeidans, which signify cannibals or men-eaters; they live in round tents, covered with mats or seal-skins, with a hole at the top to let out the smoke from their fires, about which, being made in the middle of the place, they lie. In summer they live on the banks of a river by fish. ing, and often eat their prey raw; they dry in um. mer what they intend for the use of winter; and they're fond of feeding on young puppies. Their language is barbarous, and few people understand any thing either of that or their laws, which some pretend to affirm, upon what authority I know not they execute with severity. They worship the fun and moon, and are great students of magic, he who understands it best among them being ac counted most honourable. They are cautious, how ever, of playing any of their conjuration tricks on the Russians, left they should meet with a proper pu punishment; but strangers do not come off so well. I have been told, that one of them, after being made so drunk by an English merchant that he could neither fit, stand, nor go, yet immediately recovered, and was as sober as ever on being touched on the forehead, and having had a few words muttered over him by an old woman. In this country, I have been assured by people of undoubted vera city, they have seen marjoram, sage, endive, onions and asparagus of a very large size, as well as the mol beautiful roses and variegated tulips, with various other roots, flowers, and herbs over running the surface, which here spring up spontaneously while we laboured to raise then among us.,'1 hey
They have great plenty of turnips, carrots, and pars nips, and the merchants yearly export great quantities of nitre and fal. gem, a fait particularly bright.,,In the south of Siberia, there is a forest five hundred miles long, .wherein are vas fields of fine red cherries, but of a fourth taste, though when transplanted, they become a good fruit; they are all dwarf trees, not above two or three feet high, the reason of which is, that the grass of the forest being long and dry, is apt to be kindled by the fires which travellers leave behind them unquench ed, and produces a conflagration, from which it is often found hard to escape; so swiftly does it spread, consuming all before it; and this misfortune happening often, the trees are not permitted to grow to that size whereto they might otherwise attain. The richest of these people consists in herds of flags and elks, which are larger than elsewhere; they draw sledges eighty miles a day with ease; and are so tame that they will stand still to be harnessed. When they fell a flag to a foreigner, they keep the intrails and filthiest parts to eat when they go to hunt, they consult their pries what course to take, and he is seldom out in his guess, perhaps from an exact knowledge of the country, and the places to which the game retires; it is usual for fathers to sell their female children at six or seven years old; they have chapman in plenty to purchase them at this age, that they may be sure of maidenheads. When they go a hunting they lock their wives up, and are said to have a de vice to hinder their. wives from making cuckolds of them in their absence; in short no Italian can be more jealous than the Samojedans in generalship this province is found an animal called a zou rick, hoped like a badger, but having a more agree able face; it has short legs, and a black, sleek skin, a little spotted; it burrows under ground like rabbit.
rabbit. Surprizing glories are tld of this animal' ceconomy, of the cleanliness of their dens, of their ceremonies in burying the-bodies of any of them that chance to die; of their fighting with, and taking each other prisoners, of their keeping the vanquished in captivity, as well as compelling them to lay in hay and oats for their winter sub. distance: these creatures make a sort of a howling noise which is very horrid; and great numbers of them having assembled in a wood, near which regiment of horse was drawn up, the horses were so intimidated, that they galloped off to a distance of ten miles, nor could the men's best skill, who by the bye were something frighted too, flop them the perivofkick's skin is of a light brown colour :spotted with black and white, the fur is not much esteemed, because it is short, consequently not warm; however, the Russians make cloaths of it for summer-wear. The perivofkick is an amphibia. vous animal, and is said to derive its name, which signifies to bear from place to place, from its de. lighting to carry squirrels and ermines on its back through the river. The sagacity of the Siberian squirrel is much talked of, and it is said to cross the river on a little piece of wood, launched for that purpose by itself, and steered by its tail, when it is in search of subsistence; if the wind conti nues fair, the voyage is made in safety, but if it chance to change, the poor squirrel is infallibly drowned.,In the neighbourhood of Cafan and African, and Sometimes about' Archangel, there is found a species of birds of the size of a woodcock, with the back and legs of a snipe, and the neck of an English game cock like which they engage each other, and sustain a very flout fight, standing on their guard with their beaks fixed to the ground; they are better food than a quail; in Archangel they,~4 ~~~~~~~ofte
often catch a bird of the hawk kind, not larger than a thrush, which preys upon lesser birds after having cleansed them very neatly : there is also one about the size of a swan, with a short thick neck, so very wide, that it can swallow a fish six inches broad; they fly in companies of a semicircular form, not far-above the surface of the water, watch ing for food. The Russians use the fat of this bird as a cure for bruises and achs, and call it dia baba, which in that tongue signifies, " a wild old woman The story which is mentioned by Scaliger and many other writers of an animal plant, flourishing in this country, called borometz or bararinetz, which is as much as to say, a lamb or a little sheep, is now generally regarded as fabulous: it was said to grow in the form of a lamb covered with a soft down, to a pretty large size, to consume all the grass that grew near it, as if for sustenance; and that no animal would touch it but the wolf, who preyed upon it as mistaking it in reality for a lamb, by which means he was often baited to de fruition. Having given you rome account of Siberia, be cause a province of the Russian empire, we shall, before we close this narration, deliver a word or two relating to the Crim Tartars, as some years since the Russians were tributary to them ; the city of Moscow alone paying a thousand shags skin coats yearly to them, and the czar being by articles bound to feed the cham of Tartary's horse with oats out of his cap held by himself. The Crim Tartars are now in fubjeti-.n to the Turks, and the city of Crim, which gives name to the whole territory, is built near the Tartarean sea, of brick and tone, and encompass' with wrong walls. The Crim Tartars are silt .,!'il,,VOL. V. M v.h
with hollow eyes, low foreheads, broad square shoulders, and middle-sized; there is something them To very particular, that they may be easily distinguished from any other people; they flatten the noses of their children as soon as born, because say they, it is ridiculous to le: them franc in their licht; their religion is Mahometanifm, and they meck, not unjustly, the superstitious respect paid by the .muscovites to -t. Nich.lcs.,They are no more than a troop of banditti, that live u-on the spoil and plunder of their neighbours; and if they are vanquished, they disperse instantly, but the meet again at night, to renew their incur sons, and settle their progress for the ensuing day, The are very robulf, and will ride eighty miles a day, each having three or four horses of his own; so that they are enabled to change pretty often: when any of these die, they cut them in pieces, 2nd feed on them raw with as much appetite as we do on the debts beef or mutton; however, some of the more delicate clap these pieces between the hors's back and the saddle, whereby it is sodden-end s they are hunegr, they take it out to devour., i are's milk and the blood of a horse dra;,l on .purpose, is their common remedy against al. droit al disorders: they have the most penetrating e-es of any people in the world, for if nothing intercepts. the view, they will take in a sweeps fifty miles; they abstain from fait, because they have a vain notion that it is prejudicial to the sight; and from bread, because folks, say they, are thereby rendered native and heavy. They ride with a loose rein, and can raise themselves on th stirrup and shoot back upon their foes in fut gallop the Kalmuck Tartars, among whom Tamer. lane was born, possess a very extensive tradai,la.d
land equal to the third of tie empire of Russia; they live in tents, and only sermo e when the pasture is consumed; they are larger, more swarthy, and better natured than those that are natives of the Crimea; their women are lit for war, and hunt like the men on horseback; and they have been known more than once to beat the Crim Tartars.,M 2 The
The Vota GE of Mr. LIONEL WAFER to the Isthmus of AMERLCA,,CH A P. I. sir. Wafer's fiijl voyage to the Est-Indies, 'Its fe cG;rd t; j.i7,.aica: the misfortunes of.capain Buck ci!hsm : cur author sees on an-expedition in land; is wcsundfed and flj'akenz y :his companions, with sr cl r m:n ; cured of his hurt by th? Indians; .i: danger rt bc',g-burned saved by Lacenta; travels ti: sirrah cf the North-sea, and abandoned b. his Indian gus-des ; in danger of being drowned;,ze':-ns to te indian settlements ; very hospitably rn ccivedi and timely relieved; guides sent with hin '5 the .iujfe of Lacenta. -A V IN G made one voyage as a surgeon in,the East-India company's service, without - P any material accident, or singular turn of fortune; from after my return home, I was em played in my business by captain Buckingham out ward bound for the Wet-Indies; at Jamaica, the captain intended to have taken in a lading of f- ga; but the season being not yet come, when he arrived there, rather-than be idle he chore to try his fortune in cutting logwood in the bay of Cam peachy. As I had a brother fettled in the service of Sir Thomas Multiform, on the island, I chore to remain and follow my own employment at Port Rival. It was happy for me that I took such a step, for captain Buckingham and all his people were nate prisoners; he himself having been carried to,Mexico,
Mexico, where he was sold to a baker, who forced him to cry bread about the streets. with a log tied to his leg; nor could either money friends pro cure his release. After living fume-months at Port Royal, I accepted one offers made me by captain Cook, and captain Lynch; who were going to make reprisals upon the Spanish settlement on the litmus; in this expedition, they came up with the well known Dampier, with . whom joining forces, they landed and committed many depredations. They had mustered and chose out their best men, and 'et forward on an expedition over land on the iftof May 168I ,On the fifth day of their progress, a man drying some gunpowder careless on a silver plate, it took fire close to my knee, and not only tore the flesh clear from the bone, but left great part of my thigh also raw and uncovered. This was an accident productive of extreme pain, which I endeavoured to soften by Come medicines that I carried in my knapsack ; but of this assistance I was in three or four days deprived by the desertion of the negro, who attended me, and carried my luggage. The anguish of the wound beginning to increase for want of emollients, and the fatigue of travelling being too much for me to endure; my companions were obliged to leave me behind among the Indians of Darien, together with Mr. Richard Godson, who had been apprentice to a druggist in London, and having had a good education, took every opportunity of increasing it, and John Higgins, a mari ner, both of whom were reduced to the inability of going further on.,We were afterwards joined by Robert Sprawling, and William Bowman; so that we were five in all. Some of the Indians, among whom we were obliged to sojourn, perceiving my hurt, applied to it certain salutiferous herbs chewed to a consistency,,M 3 and
and fired upon a plantain leaf,'whereby a com. p'ete cure was performed in about twenty days; :hough there remained a weakness ever after in my knee. In other reste , however, the people dii re: seem or and above civil, for they were apt to iLugh and loss at us, giving us no food but green cr withered planting, which they flung to us, as if 'o the cogs; a:;d had not one of them, who having en a ort-while prisoner at Panama, had learned ,i 'eur lt;ie Spanish, consequently could share n :heir cost:; essai f n, taken it into his head to bring .s- foi e:hi:g b-tier in the night, without the pri. Vac'. of i ,br thrcn), e should h-;ae been very bad-son cc-fieratir-n, it appeared that this tendency to u e us T':, Vws founded on our comrades having,'rz c ".c cf 'tis i:habi art Bginft their wills, TC guide-ih em; an office, which they would rather }.'ae declined, the season being rainy, nd confer-e.t'y travelling very inconvenient;. Their resent went against us increased, as they did not find there guides return so soon as they reckoned that they c'uht to do; and in consequence of this disappoint ment, supposing it to arise from their having been murdered by the flip's company, it was determined to revenge the supposed lars upon me and my un happy company; a pile of wood, whereon tofacri- ,ice u, having been absolutely prepared for that purpose: and they were only staid from executing their cruel intentions by the persuasion of their choice n.amcd Lacenta, who proposed sending us north ward under care of two guides, who might learn from the Indians on the coast, what was become ol those who were miing.,One cf the guides chosen for this expedition. was the Indian who had before befriended us, ant the ther w-as one who had manifested himself alway
ways our inveterate enemy. During the march, we were fed only with dry mais, ani that, but spa singly bestowed. Our lodgings was the bare earth, watch was cold and wet, for it rained, thundered, and lightened all the way;, and the dropping 6f the trees that were our only-covering, increased the in conveniency. The third night, e fled ourselves on the top cf a finally hill, which in the morning, was by the sod that had fallen hile we slept, formed into an island, the land all round being co vexed deep with water : and here cur guides left us to swift for ourselves, and made the best of their way back to their own country. The third day after our having encamped here, the waters being lessened, we proceeded on our journey, fleering northward by the help of a pocket-compass; and about six in the evening arrived on the banks of a river which was very deep, and over this we in ferret our flip mates must have passed; as there lay a tree on the bank newly fl!ed.,After time debate, in which we forgot that this river mit owe its depth and rapidity to the rains, it was agreed that we were palt the main ridge of hind that divides the northern and southern Isthmus ,f America, and that we could not be far from the north sea; in consequence of this determination the tree was shoved. into the water, but was so slippery - that we could not stand upon it, and it was with difficulty we got astride; however, we all gained the opposite bank except Bowman, who v;a, but a week man, ans had four hundred pieces of eight at his back; he had been a tailor him we concluded drowned, as the stream soon hurried li. out of sight. When we landed, we searched for a path, which we imagined our company must hade niaJe, but the search was in vain, for if there had been any such thing, it was covered vviih mud and ooze, this disappointment determined us tom 4 cross
cross the river again upon the tree, which we ac accordingly did, and after a walk of about a quarter of an hour, found Bowman sitting on the bank; the dream had hurried him to an eddy, near which there were fortunately some boughs, by the help of which he had reached the shore the day following being the fifth of our present journey, we were o weak for want of food, that had we not found a macaw tree, of the berries of which we ate very heartily, and carried with us good shore, we had certainly perished, On the 6th, we arrived at another river, into which the one we had before crossed disembodied itself; and as there was a necessity for our passing it, we knew not how to manage, as we had among us only a long case knife. After some deliberation, it was determined to cut some hollow bamboos, of which there are plenty in the woods, and to make them into bark logs, of a proper length, and tying them together with the twigs of a shrub like a vine, to trust our selves in these to the current of the stream. When we had prepared our little floats, wre took up our lodging upon a small hill, and having gathered a sufficient quantity of wood for that purpose, made a good fire; round which we had not been long disposed, before there arose a storm of thunder, lightning and rain, accompanied with a sulphurous smell, whereby we were almost choaked, which soon extinguished our fire, and about twelve o'clock at night, we could hear the waters come pouring upon us from ev-rv side, with the most horrid noire; which made us seek shelter among the cotton trees, that grew here in great plenty; most of which were free from branches to the height of forty or fifty feet, so that there was no climbing them; however, I by a providential chance stumbled upon one, in the side of which, old time had worn a hole about four feet from the ground ; there was a knob within
in side of it, on which I sat me down, though I could neither fit nor stand upright, and here 1 fell asleep; but did not continue long in that situation, for the trees and rubbish that were swept down by the flood, dashing perpetually against my asylum, with violent hocks, on banished that comfort able composure when the morning isar appeared, which was a mons agreeable sight, the water that run with ex cefiive rapidity, reaching up.to my knees; tho' they could not be less than five feet from the surface. The storm abated with the opening of the day, the fun began on after to shin, and the flood ran clear off the land; this circumstance encouraged me to quit my retreat, and though I could scarcely sand, so tiff was I with cold, I made shift to reach the spot where we had made our fire, and calling loud for my companions, was only answered by a me melancholy echo of my own voice; at this moment began to despair, and dropped dispirited to the ground; but I was shortly after revived by the ap proach of Mr. Higgins, who was soon follow ed by our three other mates; they like me having saved themselves among the trees. The first thing we did, after having returned thanks to God fervour mutual preservation, was to look for our bamboos, and we found them full of water and all spoiled i which failure, perhaps, was owing to our having been careless in working them, for they were crack ed in many places.,We were now at our wits end, and not know ing what better course to take, resolved, if it was possible, to return to the Indian settlement we had left. As we coasted along the river, we were happily surprised with the sight of a deer lying fas asleep; and we should certainly 1'avo killed him, had not the man who was next him, forgotten to read his piece so that the stir humbled cut just as he pie-,I\ 5 fc:tid
presented it; and the gun going off at the same in. tant aroused the deer, which saved himself by slight, This was the eighth day of our march, in all Which time we had only fed on a few macaw berries, and the pith of a bobby tree, which, when split, was a most delicious morsel perceiving the trick of a wild hog, we struck di ret into it, hoping it might bring us into a plan tain walk, as this creature is very fond of the plan tain. Wee had not rambled far among this way, be fore we perceived two Indian plantations, and noW our hearts began to fail us, for though we were starving alive, yet we were afraid that the Indians might put us to death ;' which certainly in such circumstances if properly considered, was preferable to life. However to try their inclinations, it was azrced that I should venture among them alone, ad the rest cf my companions were either to follow or retire according to my receptions no s-oner entered one of the cabins, wherein there was one meat boiling over the fire, but the heat of the house and the scent of the victuals as fcjtedr me so firing;, that I fainted away. 'I've Indians Toon brought me to myself, gave me fume thins, and learned to treat me with more than u ! te;deri:ef ; what contributed to revive me chiefly was, my perceiving .among them those very persons en vwofe account ie were so near being put to c'L. ; and it afterwards appeared that our flip r-raes had tree-ed them with such kindness, that they thou .: n return to strong to express their gr .ri:ude.,V\'hcn I as 6.uke recovered, they inquired for the rei? of mn;' contrite?, whom, on being inform ei where he's' were, they soon brought in, except - .r. G.pfn.n, 'who was 1o weary he could go no further, w'hereicrc they carried refreshments out to h;i. Ate: ha'. i:;g rem-gained hire seven di;ys, in,C1 ~~~~ v-th
which we *ere treated with the greatest humanity, and tolerably recruited, seven of the flutes young men were appointed' to conduct us, according to our desire, towards the north-sea; these took us under their care with such a right good will, that they conducted us in one day to the river here ie found the trees and .hither we had been three days travelling before; hen we had walked about a mile along the banks, we found a canoe in which we all embarked, and made up, instead of oing down the flieam, against the current of which the Indians paddled lustily; at night we lodged in a Souse where we were very kindly treated, after our. conjurors had informed our hot! who and Wage: we c!'e; the next day, ve embarked-again, h \,ri two more hands added to our number, to th,.t swe had now six people in our train, vwholeenied o be emulous in their service; :aid in six dys space, tiihc brought us to the house of. Lacerta., v11u.Lwe I:.eC iincd.bfatle,,MI 6 C-H A P.
CHAP. II. Lacenta's power, situation, and importance defrribed:,bis wife recovered y tYafer, from a f of sickness: the author in va/i esteem among the people: the man. enr in which th people of the Ihmaus bleed the sick: ite method praised by the Spaniards in gathering gc!d duji: Wafer lays a scene to procure his and is companions liberty, end succeeds: they are cn. ruled to the nsrlh sea: the Indians assemble their censurers, whb perform the ceremony of paw-waw. ing; their traditions verified: Mr. Gopfpn dies: If-safer gets on board his cwnhip. T ACENTA lived upon the top of a hill, form., ing between two great rivers a sort of peninsula the road, whereby this house was to be ap preached, was forty feet wide between the rivers, and so extremely well fenced by hollow bamboos, popes heads, and prickle pears, thick set from side to side, that no enemy could come near it in any regular order. He was surrounded with the state lies cotton trees I ever saw, and fifty of his prin cipal commanders resided in his neighbourhood.,Lacenta, who was a sort of sovereign over all the south Isthmus of Darien, received us very civil ly; and having told us, that it was impossible to travel farther, because of the rainy season, dismiss ed our guides, assured us of his protection, and or. tered us quarters among his retinue. Soon after cur arrival, Lacenta's wife being one day feverish and very much out of order, I offered to bleed her; which I did, a:-d when he saw the blood spout from the vein, ferri that he should lose his wife, he seized hs lance and sore by his tooth, if fte did not recover, my life should be the forfeit. I was,8 .ot
not moved at his menace, he on happily grew well, and I was in more seem than any man at court;. nay Lacenta himself, in presence of all his at tenants, cited my hand out of reverence to my Ikill.,This example was universally followed, and I became the objet of almost general adoration. I was carried about in a hammock from plantation to plantation, administering advice, physic, and phlebotomy to all who flood in need of any for, when my negro ran away with my knapsack, in which were all my necessaries, I chanced to have a box of instruments and another of medicaments in my pocket, wrapped up in a piece of-oil cloth, and these were now of singular use to me. The Indians had the following strange method of-bleeding before I came among them. The patient was seated on a sone in the river, and a person killed in the exercise lot several little arrows at the body; it is true, they pierced no deeper than the kin ; and if they chanced to draw blood, the operators danced and skipped with a thousand antic gestures. Lacenta was fond of hunting, and as he liked my company extremely well, he seldom went upon any excursion without me; and as we traversed the south-east part of the country, we could often see the Spaniards gathering gold duct in the rivers. They take it up sand and all in little dies, and shaking it well, the sand swims and is skimmed off, the gold falling to the bottom, and, by paling a loadstone over it, attract all the iron particles that are among it. When. they have cleaned it thus from ore and filth, it is put up in gourds and cala ashes; this employment is followed in the dry sea son, for when it is wet, the rivers are too deep to ad mit its being practised. On examining my present situation carefully, I began to fear that Lacenta in tended never to part with me, and consequently his,great
great fondness made me very uneasy. However, one day when we were quivered in pursuit of game-that at length escaped us, I took an opportunity cf commending the fleetness of English' dogs, and as. sured him that nothing added or could add so much to the pleasure of sorting; making him at the fie time offer of going to England, and bingig some for him from that countryside seemed at si-rs unwilling to part with me; however, after a pause, he swore by his tooth that he-ould give my companions for my sake their lIberty, and that he would permit me to go to England for some game dogs, provided I would promise sincerely to return and live with-him; at which tire he assured me he ould make me a great man, ad join me in m clock to his own daughter, .ho ua: not yet marriageable. All that he required 1 swore b y ,tooth to performs returned him thanks fortis reliance on me, and soon after set cut for the north seas, together w.ti mv companions, attended by a strong party of arm ed Indian, besides a train of workmen who carried our provisions and cloaths; the latter consisting (if only a innrn frock and a pair of drawers, whk'ih had no: worn while among these people, as I went quite naked; and had been by way of ornament spotted-wil paint from head to foot, by rome women wh a m de a trade of it, and who would fain have rubbed it into my skin thro' flight excoriaic.:i generally made fr that purpose ; but I would nut cjnf.int to the opsr-tion.,In our journey, we paszd over many mountains of a ftL:pc-nous night, and thre was one par tully v,-,ich we .cere four days in climbing; on the top of it our heads were quite giddy, and se found the air much finer and more subtle than re iadcever before exf pierced. Here we could often sec the cl ud break a:d :parade fa bn"ali uS tb't,wl/IC
were too high to see any. sign of the valley below, in our descent, e were cured of our vertigoes, and we were obliged to straddle o er a ridge, which was very dangerous, and which we could cross no other way. In six. days we came to an Indian settlement, on the banks of a river that ran into the north sea here we were met at the entrance of the town by forty of the principal inhabitants, clothed in long white garments, fringed at the bottom, each holding an half-pike, Who received us with great refpea. When we asked whether they on expelled any shipping on the coast they pleaded ignorance;, but offered to summons the Pawawerd conjurers, who would satisfy us in that particular. This they. accordingly did.; and it was.forrewhat remarkable,. that every thing there ministers of Satan pretended to prognosticate happened accord ins!. Before. they went to work, they turned us out of the house, and every. thing belonging to us, lest they should have been retarded in their opera tions by them, and while they were engaged at it, ii is impossible for any man who was not an auditor to conceive the dissonance arising from the noise they made When they had finished, they ran out of the home all in a muck sweat, and having fil: wasted themselves in the river, dei red the oracle they had received. On the tenth d.3y after this ceremony, in the morning we were alarmed with the report of two guns, and foon.after were told of the arrival of an-english flip, with a Spanish Tartan, of which the Sad made a prize ; this intelligence gave us great satisfaction. WVe soon persuaded our Indian friends, 'l;o were afraid of the Spanish vessel, to carry us Ci board the Engulf sip, in a canoe, which they did; bt in our p lge e were overturned; and Mr. Godson, who was a very weak man, and saved wiith'dir-culit from drowning, caught so fe-,.1~~~~~~vr
vere a cold that he died in a few days afterwards, all which had been predicted by the Pawawers, The English hip happened to be the same to which I belonged, and the crew received my four fellow. sufferers with great satisfaction, while for my part, being naked, tanned with the fun, and covered with paint, 1 remained squat on my hams among the In. diana, in order to try if 1 was very much altered, and 1 escaped being known for more than an hour, when one of the sailors examining the place where I was pretty curiously, fixed his eyes full upon me, and after a minute or two seriously observing me, cried out, " 'll be damn'd if this is not our doc. (" tor.",This acclamation brought a good many of the men together, to whom I discovered myself, and I was received with loud acclamations of joy. I then delivered myself to be walled and cleaned, but my piaifh ornaments stuck so fast to me, that in en devouring to detach myself from them, I in many places pulled off (kin and all. Our ships flayed upon the coat near three weeks, in which time our In tian acquaintances paid us many visits; and among them came Lacenta upon a hunting match. They commonly brought with them their wives and children-and we entertained them with such good nature and kindness, that, I dare say, they lamented our departures shall not detain the reader with my various ad. ventures and observations after leaving this place, because he will find there largely treated of in Dam. pier's voyage round the world; but having given this short account of my travels, I shall proceed te a general description of the Isthmus, from the best observations I could possibly make during the timid tht I sojourned in that part of America.,CHAP,
VbLYV,N O H a So Sea I Po~~td a~Ja~l ortÃ³ of these Tills ofDAkIEW? or's ~ ~ ~ z 1i~~ eizTL~71a, 0 Bay of Papa MA Pea de,Bx Darien PANAMA~~~~ F~~~~ Ap,SOUTH S CE A In 4-=-
C H Asp. III. if description of the Isthmus f Darien, the bay and,town of Panama, and of Porto-bello; with va pious other places on the coa/i. T HE Isthmus of America, more properly call-sed the Isthmus of Darien; perhaps from the ever of that name, whereby the northern coast is bounded to the eastward, lies between eight and ten degrees of north latitude, but in the narrowest part it is little more than one degree broad; whether on the northward it extends only to Porto-bello and panama, or stretches as far as the Honduras of nicaragua, I cannot pretend to determine. Along he Isthmus, which is molt beautifully diversified with hills rising over hills, and vales of extreme fertility,' runs a chain of mountains foaringinfinite- y beyond the rest, which I hall distinguish by the lame of the Main Ridge; the breadth of it is very equal, and it trends with the Isthmus, being fel om more than twelve or fifteen miles distant from he North Sea, of which we had generally a clear hew, there being no hills to intercept the prospect; ut the ground, which is a continued forest, gradually declining to the water Of the South Sea, on the other side, there is no manner of pressed; not but that the eye might easily take in the distance at which it is, were not its progress topped by intercepting hills. Though Some of the rivers that water this tract are pretty are, yet few of them are navigable, the entrance )f them being obtruded by shoals arid sand-banks. Ihe rivers on the northern coast having but short :ourfes,are very small; Darien is indeed coinfidrable,,but
but the depth at its mouth is no way in proportion to its width; however, it deepens as you advance in it.,The river Chare also arising at a good-distance from its outlet, becomes very large and deep before it falls into the sea. The soil varies extremely; ia forme places it is fruitful, and in others, especially near the sea, it is all a swamp From Caret Bay to the promontory near the Golden Island it is sus ficient!y fertile, though part of it is sandy, and part of it under water alms always ; so that if a man attempts going ashore, he must venture up to the noddle in mud caret Bay is small; there are two or three rivulets of fresh water falling into it, and before it are two islands, being pretty high lands, and covered with trees as there are no rocks about it, it affords very fife anchorage; On the west of the river Darien Cape, is a sandy bay, where there is good anchoring in a hard bottom: before it are three islands, e- tween the molt cafvlard of which, called Golden ]stand, and the main land is a fair deep channel. On the south side of this island, which is high, rocky, and every where else inaccessible, lies a pretty safe bay.,\Vest of this is another final i;and'covered with mangroves, w-here the ground is so boggy, that there is no firm anchorage. This island so come to the Ifi.mus, that even at high vater no ships can pass between them. To the northwards thee lies the land of Pines, divided into hiss, which to those at sea serve a a beacon; it is v.ell x altered and covered with tall useful trees. other is a same bay cn the south side of it,- encored as it. vere, in a half-moon; but the south side, opposite to the Ifihmus, is cragged and rocky. From hence te shore runs north-west to Point Sanbal!as, near which, arson te Sanballoe hands, lies ''ickle-me-.qu ,harbour.
harbour. Among the Sanballoe islands, which are very numerous and very small, there is a great diversity of harbours, the chief of which is Stringer Key, and consequently there is almost immediate f;curi y against any wich ; for which reason, thing the war, they are much resorted to by pii vat eels these islands are low, flat, and sandy, abound. ing with trees, such as mammas, fpadilloes, man chinese, &c. Point Sanballas is rocky, long, and low; and being guarded by rocks a mile off at sea, the approach to it is dangerous. Three leagues to the west of Point Sanballas lies Port Servan, where there is a good harbour, the entrance of which is dangerous; though the landing here is bad, it being fÂ£eampy ground, yet captain Canon and other privateers chore to march from hence on account of its being little frequented, over land to Porto-bello, in Ice, and by this method of proceeding they es caped being taken notice of by the Spanish shouts, not being discovered till they came within an hour's march of the town the place where Nombre Dios formerly flood is but a bad situation, and the air is ftl worse ; the bay before it is open to the sea; and it affords but little shelter for fhipii-, which was one rca fen for its having been quitted by the Spaniards. There are a few straggling Lands at the mouth of the bay of Nombre de Duos, between which and the lflhrmu a very convenient harbour is formed. The coast all the way hence to Porto bello is gene rally rocky; the Ind is fruitful, very hilly, and covered with trees, except some frets, which the Spanifh Indians, who are tributary to Porto-bello, have cleared where they go to church. When you have entered the harbour, the mouth of which is but narrow, it appears to afford good shelter worshipping;
shipping: to this place the Peruvian treasures are brought over land from Panama.,The town of Porto-bello, which forms a half moon, the sea being the area, lies at the bottom of the harbour, the entrance of which on the left hand is secured by a long fore, and on the right by a block-house; there are several other sorts pro. testing the town, scattered very conveniently about, and they contribute very much to the strengthening: of it. In there are generally quartered two or three hundred Spanish soldiers; the town is long and narrow, with two principal, and several cross streets; in the middle of it is a small parade, surrounded with houses that are handsome and well-built, as the town in general is The church is a. good edifice; and on the earl, from the north to the south side. run the king's fables, in which the mules employ. ed to bring in the treasure from Panama are kept. Near there is a infall-rivulet of fresh water; and between the parade and the governor's house, which is close to the great sort, is a brook, over which is a bridge. The shore, when the tide withdraws, is covered with a black filthy mud, whence arise, promoted by the heat ofthe climate, very noisome vapours. The country, to the south and east, is hilly, with' rome wood, but no great quantity of fruit. Having thus then a night survey of the north side of the Isthmus, let us proceed to the south the Point Arachne is pretty high, and forms the well side of the mouth of.the river Sambo but that part toward the river is low, swampy, and over run with mangrove the mouth of te Sambo opens to the north, and from thence the coast trends away in a north east direction to the gulf of St. Michael, which is formed by the outlet of several rivers, the chief of which are the river Santa Maria, the river of Con-ego,
go, and the Gold River, so called from the plenty of gold duff found therein, to gather which the Spaniards bring hither their negroes from Panama and Santa Maria; on the south side of which, at a good distance from the sea, finds a town of the same name. This waste sirs river we entered in the south seas when I went upon an expedition with captain Sharp, We took the town at that time, it being newly built by the Spaniards of Panama, and in it we found a good magazine of provision, and a garrison of two hundred Spanish soldiers. Indeed the fort was only secured by pallisadoes, and the town was not as yet walled. The land is low, woody, anq unwholsome; the rivers are oozy, and the air is nfeced by the french of the mud. However, the village of Schuchadero, which lies on the right side of the river, being on a high' ground, and open to the refreshment of the sea breezes, is far from being unhealthy. Here is a- fine rivulet of fresh water, a most valuable posses sion, as the rest of the rivers, even far up the country, are brackish and ill-tasted. The mouth of the river Congo is muddy, and left bare at low water for a vast way; however, ships may pass over at high water, and when they are advanced within, they will find the road deepen sufficiently. There are many islands in this gulf, where the anchoring is good, tho' in oozy ground; they are full of mangroves, and afford good helter to the shipping. There are many creeks and out lets here upon the coast, but no fresh water, at leaf I could find none in the dry season; in the wet, the declivities of the ground, and dropping of the trees, afford water enough. The town of Cheapoo, which is small, and of no great consequence, sands at force distance from the sea, on the west side of the river Cheapooo.,The
The ground hereabout is partly woodland, partly savannah, the latter being variegated with delight ful hillocks, intermixed with spots of wood; and near to this place the river takes its ife, and after a westward course, for the most part, falls ito the North Sea. On the louth side of it, near Panama, stands Vera Cruz, a village of inns and fore. houses, from which, merchandise, plate excepted, that being carried all the way by land, is sent down the river Chare to Porto-bello.,The land farther west, between the river Cheapoo ard Panama is low, dry, and even, over-run with bushes, and sometimes covered with sea-water, Near this place stood the old city of Panama, which wa. burned by Sir Henry Morgan, about the time that the Spaniards were about to quit it, on account of its inconveniencies, having no good landing. place. There is nothing to be seen of it at pre sent, but a few scattering houses and heaps of ruins, The new town, which is built farther west, has a good harbour, and ships may ride safely in the road, under helter of the three Erica islands, but they are not irnnediaely under command of the town, there Being a long bank between the town and the read. Panama appears very beautiful at sea, the was of the houses being of white stone, covered with pan-times, a commodity much used all over the Spanifh West Indies; it has no fortifications, bt' is enclosed in a strung wall, especially toa arts ths ea, v.hich f f merits damages it considerably: it is surround by h!ls, fvanah copes, and sarti houses for the cattle, which are horlfs, mules, and oxen, and taken all together, from a distance, forms a very beautiful landci'p.,it is the chief town for business and trade on the South Sea coast, being the receptacle of the-ea 'h of Lima and other Peruvian ports, keep sr up a commercial correspondence with Mexico.,0 T
The king of Spain keeps a president here, who aaS in concert with the council; and to whom the go vernon of Porto.bello is subservient, as indeed.is the whole country-as far as Guatemala. Panama, when compared to Porto bello, is a very healthy town, and yet it is sickly enough, as is usually ex experienced by those who come from the purer climates of Lima and Traxiiloas, they being gene rally forced to cut off their hair, which on grows too heavy for the head. The Rio Grande, lying about a league to the west of Panama, is a rapid stream, unfit for hip ping, its mouth being very coal. On its western banks are good plantations of sugar; and here, as the there begins to trend away to the southward, I Shall halt in my descriptive progress. The lore between Point Arachne and the Rio Grande ex tending to Punta Mala makes a semicircular bay, known by the name of the Bay of Panama; in it are oe fine islands, as Erica, Cheque, Che pelion, King's Island, .&c-these are not only plentiful in the produce of wood, water:, fruit,. fowls, hogs, .&c. but afford also an excellent har our for shipping.; and, upon the whole, it is a mos deceitful bay.' The soil of the inland country, confiding of a black fne mould, is extremely fertile. From the gulf of St. Michael, to the hills of Caret Bay, it is cell watered and pleasant; but there is no travelling :pon the lore near the gulf, as the ground is bokren and swampy. West of the river Congo ill you pas the river Cheapoo, the land isrich, in erfierted with pleasant high lands, but afterwards ' i one continued wood. The ridge is extremely rti!e, being covered even to the top with trees, nd if one may be allowed to judge of the alienation accurate observation, there is nothing that,grows
grows in Jamaica but what would thrive here won. fearfully; for the soil is extremely luxuriant the woods on the sea coat are almost impede. table, the trees are so interwoven i but, more in land, they form rather groves regularly planned, free from underwood and brambles; so that a horse. man may gallop among them a vast way over a beautiful lawn, with a canopy of verdure above his head, nor yet meet the slightest obiruacon or in conveniency. The weather in this latitude is much the same as in most other places of the torrid zone, but rather inclining to be very wet. The rainy seasons begin in April and May, and continue very violent during June, July, and August, the weather being most of that time glowing hot; and as the cooling breezes are wanting, the air is so sultry, that if the fun chances to break thro' a cloud, it is almost intolerable: they begin to abate in Septem. ber, but it is sometimes January before they are quite gone they commence with a sudden shower in a day, like our April or thunder showers; then follow per laps two or three in a day, afterwards there falls one every hour; then they perhaps continue for the whole daw, accompanied with violent thunder or lightning, and the air impregnated with a faint sulphureous smell, which is still worse, pent up among the woods. It may perhaps rain incessant ly for four or six weeks without ay thunder or lightning, and then sometimes there succeeds a week of fair weather, with now and then a tornado, which brings with it a refreshing air, but then the dropping of the trees is as troublesome as the rain there is generally a most harsh concert of the hissing of serpents, the croaking of toads, and humming of gnats, &c. after every heavy shower. Though this country is not pestered with gnats and muskets, as other warm countries, yet in the,fwa mpy
swampy grounds, and among the moist groves they; are very troublesome. The rains make a hollow rattling sound in the woods, and the torrents pour ing from the high lands, as I. have before remarked in describing my own adventures, tear up vast trees. by the roots, and force them forward with the cur rent. By these means a river is often barricaded, or blocked up, until another flood, in a more even direction, drives down and sets the impediment. afloat. Sometimes the floods will spread themselves over the neighbouring grounds, and give the low lands the appearance of a lake, or of a broad sea The coolest time in this quarter of the world is about Christmas, when the fair weather is coming on, and the clouds beginning to break, give a free course to the air, to refresh the weary inhabitants with the breeze.,CH A P. IV. Of the grub!, fruits, and various kinds of trees found on the Ifihmus, and the very particular man ner of the inhabitants smoking tobacco. A M 0 N G the variety of fruits and trees that this climate produces, are many absolutely unknown to Europe. Of one few of the most curious we hall take notice, beginning with the cotton-thee, which is not only the largest, but the mod common tree upon the Ifihmus. It bears a cod about the bigness of a nutmeg, wherein is con gained a sort of short wool or down, which, when ripe, bursts out, and is scattered by the wind. The timber of this tree, which the Indians burn hollow, but the Spaniards form with chisels and other in filaments, is particularly used in building canoes, and,VOL. V. N small
small vessels for the water; when new it is easily worked upon, being as soft as a willow.,On the north part of the sea-coast are plenty of the most stately cedars, which, though one of the most fragrant woods, as well as the most beautiful grained in the world, is used in canoes and other coarse business. I do not remember that I ever saw either the cotton-tree or the macaw on any of the islands the macaw-tree is a species of palm, growing. in moist grounds, and rising straight up to about the height of ten feet, bearing neither leaf nor branch but near the somewhere the branches hoot out to the length of twelve or fourteen feet, being in the thickest part a foot and an half wide, and les. fencing gradually till it diminishes to a point. The body is surrounded, at certain distances, with protuberant rings and those thick set with long prickles; the middle of the tree is a pith like elder, engrossing half the diameter of the body; the broad end of the leaf, which is jagged about the edges, andes thick as one's hand, is thick-set with prickles: on the top, amid the roots of these leaves, grow the fruit in clusters, of perhaps scores together, each as large as a middle-sized pear, the figure of it be ing oval, and the colour, when ripe, a yellow or bright red; it has a harsh tart taste, but is ex extremely pleasant; the outside is firing and slimy, and there is a stone in the middle. The Indians cut them down if they cannot readily reach the fruit otherwise; the wood is heavy, hard, and black, splitting very easily; it is made use of in building for planks and rafters the bobby is a straight slender tree, scarce thick er than a reasonable thigh, which grows to the heights sixty or seventy feet; the branches sprout out near the top, and round the root of each branch grows the berries like a garland: the wood is close-grained
grained and black; and within the tree is a narrow pith the Indians tap it when young, and the bib by diftilslthrough the bore, being a tertii wheyilh liquor that is pleasant enough, and fit to drink in a day or two. The berries are about the bigness of a nutmeg, of a wheyifh colour, and very oily; they are pounded, strained, and then boiled: the oil, which is very bitter, and used by the Indians to mix the colours wherewith they paint themselves, swims on the top, whence, as the liquor cools, it may be dimmed off. The Indians do not cut but burn the tree to come at the berry. There is a tree grows on the Ifihmus, bearing a fruit like a cherry, which is full of stones and ne ver softens the plantain-tree is not the natural produce of the Ifihmus, but the seed being wailed down with the rains from the neighbouring countries, vows it self, and sprouts up by the water-side. Beneath the fruit, which is oblong, grow several leaves one under another, growing broader and broader as they descend, and at a distance they look like a plume of feathers; they make pleasant groves, if set to advantage, and the Indians, to get at the fruit, cur them down, which, as they are soft and pappy, may be done with one blow of an ax.,The bonne, a sort of plantain, the fruit of which is thick, sweet, and mealy, abounds also on the Ifihmus. In the islands are great quantities of mammee trees, which grow very straight, to the height of sixty feet or more; the fruit, in the middle of which is a sone, is wholesome and delicious, ge neatly something larger than a pound-pear.,There is a species of a mammee called mammee fappota, the fruit of which, when ripe, is beau fully coloured, and smaller, but firmer than the other fortin 2 Sapadilloes
Sapadiilocs do not grow so high as the mammee: the fruit, which is coated like a ruffet-pippen, but of a smaller size, is very pleasant; they are plenty. ful in all the islands, and are found also on the con tient, where abounds the most delicious fruit in the world, I mean the pine-apple.,It is like an artichoke, and as big as a man's head it grows like a crown, on the top of a flock as thick as a man's arm, and a foot and an half high; the fruit is surrounded with short prickly leaves, and commonly weighs about six pounds; the fruit is very juicy, and some people imagine the taste to be an assemblage of all the firstfruits in the world: the leaves are to be pared from the fruit, which has neither stone nor kernel; the leaves of the plant grow from the root, and are about a foot long the prickly pear is a fair fruit, much eaten by the Indians; it grows on a prickly plant four feet high few fences can be better than the pope's head, which is a plant growing like a mole-hill, and full of thick, harp, hard spurs, with black points, of about a shan long, which gall extremely the legs and feet of any one that chances to be entangled amrnngof it.,The indians make no other ue of the sugar c-an found here, than to suck out the juice.,In the islands are found a fruit called the machines pie, cf a very fine colour and a mois fragrant .mel, but of a nature so malignant, that whoever chances to taste of it is poisoned, without an im immediate antidote is administered. The trees arc low, are-bodied, and full of leaves; the grain of the wood is very fine, delicately grained, and used in carved work: we had an instance of its virulence in the rain-water which distilled from it, upon the bead and breast of one of our company who hap. Seed to repose in its shade, raising blisters every were that it touched; indeed he was so affeCted,that
that his life was saved with difficulty, and he carried the marks of it, like the fears of the small-pox, to his grave this part of the world produces two sorts of malo, the one being as large as an, the other smaller, and the ratter grows by the river side, in most swampy places; the bark is ragged, and will rip off in firings to the very top, there shrines be: ins, tho' slender, very strong, so that cable-ropes and rigging for vessels are made of them, and they are formed into threads for fishing-nets and other uses, by twisting them between the knee and the palm of the hand the calabash is a held-fruit, of a globular form, very hard, and containing two, three, four or five quarts: of these there are two sorts, the one being sweet, the other bitter; the substance of both is spongy and juicy; I cannot say that they are very delicious, but the Indians use them frequently on a march, sucking the juice and spitting out the rest. The bitter sort is medicinal, and a specific in ter trans, a decoction of them administered by way of clyster is admirable in the dry gripes. The shells are made use of as drinking-vessels, being alios as hard as the coco-shell, but not quite so thick. The Darien calabash is, when painted, greatly valued by the Spaniards.,Gourds are of two species; the sweet, which is not over pleasant, and.the bitter, which is medici. nat in the paffio.i!iaca, tertian, costiveness, &c. ad winifred by way of clyster ; they creep along the ground, or wind round trees like the vine; the gourd-shells serve for pails or buckets here is also found a kind of dagger called silk grass, growing in moist places, under cover of hills ; the leaves hoot out in a knobbed root, and are like a sword blade, being at the bottom thick as one's hand, and growing thinner gradually till it,N 3 trmi-
terminates in a point: these leaves are jagged at the edges like a reap-hook or saw, and sometimes grow to the length of two yards: when they come to a proper growth the Indians cut them, dry them in the fun, and then beat them into fine flax, of which they make ropes for the hammocks, all sorts of fishing net:, &c. it is certainly stronger than any of our hempen or flaxen threads, and the shoemakers in Jamaica use it for their ends; the Spa nisi women make stockings of it, which are sold very dear; and the women in the West Indian plantations weave a yellowish lace out of it, which they are very proud of.,The light-wood tree is about the size of an elm, with a leaf like that of the walnut; it is freight and well bodied; the grain of it resembles that of the cotton-tree, being of a whitish colour, its sub fiance resembling cork, tho' I know not whether it be so spongy or not; of it are made good tompkins for the muzzles of guns, and it is so light that a man may carry a large quantity of it on his back at a time. On a rafter made of three or four logs of it, four feet long, and not thicker than a man's thigh, two or three men have been known to venture to sea; these rafts are made, by first binding with malo cords several of the logs collaterally, across which are laid other logs, at one distance from each other, and these are pegged down to the former with firing mecca pegs, which in this spongy wood takes a surprising strong hold; on these rafts, which resemble the dyers floats upon the Thames at London, the Indians cross large rivers, and go out to fish the wbitewcod-tree is like the willow, it grows one or two and twenty feet high, and the trunk is but slender ; the leaf resembles that of senna; it is the whitest, finetl grained wood I ever saw, be ing also very hard and ponderous.,They
They do not take any care of their tamarind trees, which-are large and umbrageous; they ge neatly thrive in a sandy soil near a river: the fruit is good, but of a brown fort.,The-locull-tree, a species of tamarind, but of the wild sort, abounds here; as does the bastard cinnamon which has a (short thick cod like that of a bean.,Of the bamboo cane, which grow like briars in copses, twenty or thirty of them well guarded by prickles, sprout from one root; they rise near the river, and the avenues which they fill become there by impassable; few of them are found in the islands, but on the isthmus they are plentiful enough the hollow bamboo will hold sometimes a gal hon, sometimes more; they are found only on the continent, rising twenty or thirty feet high, and a foot and an half in circumference; they have knots all down them, at the distance of about half a yard i the leaves, shaped like those of the elder, clue at the top of each cane the mangrove-tree consists of several thin fiemn shooting from different roots, that rise a foot or more above the water, and uniting one with another they form a pretty lusty tree. Where there trees are thick they over-run the ground, in such a manner, that there is no passing on the bank of the salt water. Mangrove is relish, and used in tan king leather. I have some reason to think that the Peruvian or Jesuit's bark is the produce of a sort of mangrove bell and bird-pepper, each growing on a shrub of about three feet high, the latter having a smaller leaf, and being in most esteem, are the spontaneous products of the soil; as is also the red-wood, a slender tree of thirty or forty feet high, with a notched bark; the grain is of a bright red cast,,N 4 and
and gives a mol beautiful Fed slain to cottons, which no washing can ever remove. :The Indians here know also the use of yams and potatoes; the latter they roast, of the former they have two sorts, the white and purple.,Caflava, a root something like parsnip, also thrives well here; the hveet sort they roast and eat, of the other, having pressed out the juice, which is rank poison, they make bread forgetting like our at. bread, by grating it to powder, and screwing it over a hot baking stone, on which it becomes a cake that is crisp, white; and very agreeable when dried. This sort of bead is not peculiar to the isthmus; it is sued also in Jamaica, and in all the Indian colonies they have here plenty of tobacco, but as they are strangers to the manner of manuring the plant, it is nwt quite so strong as that of Virginia; they Jay :several leaves, having tripped and cured them, one upon another, and then roll them up sideways, leaving the center hollow; and by rolling leaf up on leaf, they extend it to the length of two or three feet, the: roll being extremely hard: their way of smoaking it is extremely particular; a boy having lighted one end of it, blows the smoke with the breath of his mouth thro' the whole length cf the roll into the faces of all the company, which ushering they receive, sitting on forms, in the hollow ps their hands, inhaling it with vast eagerness, ard seeming to be in raptures at so agreeable a re freshmen. They are perfumed in this manner, when in council, and there are perhaps two or three hu.;ded persons presents H A P.
C H A P. V. Of the feveralJforts of four-footed beasts, reptiles, in;,feats, &c. peculiar to this climate. . H E R E is no great variety of beasts peculiar to the Isthmus of America: but as the soil is rich and fertile, I am persuaded, that were it well cleared from wood, it would afford fine pasturage for black cattle, wine, and such other useful anil mass as are found in Europe, and usually brought thence into there climates, where they are especial ly esteemed there is here a beast of a black colour, with Short legs, but extremely swift, called the peccary; it resembles the Virginia-hog, and has the navel not on the belly but on the back, whence if it be not cut in a couple of hours after the beast is killed it communicates to it a most unsavoury taint: when this stone, the flesh, which is nourilhing.and well-tasted, will keep fresh, for many days. The Indians, when they-have a mind to preserve it long er, barbican it in the following manner: they plant four flies in the ground, eight or nine feet from each other, laying others a-cross, parallel to and about a foot from the ground ; upon these are laid p eyes of the beast, and underneath a hot charcoal fire, which is kept in for three, four, or five dys, the meat being continually turned till it becomes :s dry As a chip, or as smoked beef. Thus they ma / n.ze abroad not only the peccary, but many fors of bites, the warren, &c. with this difference, that ti. - flea the latter; if there be much, the women aiih, the men in carrying it home. Jirom the meat true reserved they cut bts for ue, and when the flock is out go a hunting for moreton 5 There
There is a necessity for some cookery of this sort, in which I hould have observed they use a sprinkling of salt, because the country is so very moist the wearies go in droves of one or two hundred together, and the Indians bring them down either with dogs or arrows; but they find it a difficult task on account of their swiftness. I myself have hunted a whole day with Lacenta, without being able to catch more than two-wearies, tho' we have started near a thousand, nay more the warren is another kind of hog, with little ears, hue tusks, and long bristles covering the whole body; it fights with every creature that comes in its way, but seems to-have a peculiar en misty to the peccary. They are good food, and the Indians hunt and barbican them.,It is a little remarkable, that tho' they have plenty of red deer, they never hunt them, and seemed not well satisfied that our men hould kill and eat them, refusing, with great indications of displeasure, to partake of the meal; yet they pick up the horns that are found shed in the woods, and hang them up by way of ornament in their houses here is a race of small ill-shaped dogs, with rough straggling hair like our mongrels, but they univ fart game, or by barking keep it at bay till the hunters come up, for they never run any down; large firing dogs would be valuable presents here; but then there would be great danger of their grow ing wild in such an uncultivated country. Here are no hares, but a few rabbits, very near as large as hares, with .title short ears, long claws, and no tails; the English call them Indian conies; they are a pleasant juicy meat, and do not burrow deep in the ground, but lodge in the roots of trees the woods are full of various sorts of middle sized monkies, which vre excellent food; most of .hem are black, and have beards: but there brothers
others white and beardless. In the dry seasons the fruit makes them pure and sat; battle Indians never eat of them till they saw us do it. In the rainy seasons they have large worms in their bowels, some of them six or seven feet long; they are a very waggish sort of monkey, skipping from bough to bough, with their young at their back, chat tearing, making faces at us, and waiting a fair op opportunity to piss upon us as we passed near them. When the trees between which they chuse to pass are too far from one another, they lay hold of each other's tail, and forming a link, swing down, when the lowermost catching hold of the bough, climbs nimbly up, and draws the rest, who take care of their grasp, after him here are neither bullocks, sheep, cows, .safe, goats nor horses; and as they have no cats, a pre sent of one good houses would be highly rated, for they are ver-run with grey rats and mite and when we proposed some reward to two of the na times who had cruised with, and been of service to us for some time, he begged a cat, which he had seen us apply to catch there vermin; and his re quest was no sooner granted, then he hurried off his consort to the canoe, without slaying for any other gratification, and they hastily paddled off, with strong marks of being infinitely rejoice dat the acquisitions know they have snakes, but I did not much no time their species; their spiders are not poisonous, but very large: and having picked the lice out of their heads with their fingers, they eat them.,Thefoldier-infeE swarms in the Sanballoe islands; it is a species of the snail, having a shell, out of Which you see the head and about one third of his body, of the colour of a boiled shrimp; it has fe vernal small claws, and two large ones, like a crab: the tail part, within the shell, when roasted, is as,N 6 delicious
delicious as any marrow; the fore-part is bony and useless; they feed under the trees upon what drops from them, and if they chance o have lately prey ed upon the machines-apple, they are so infectious, that they almost poison those who eat them: accidents of this nature have disordered many of my ship-mates, but I always made some shift to recover them. I have found an oil extracted from this in sea, excellent against sprains or contusions; it is of a yellowish colour like wax, and as thick as palm oil these islands produce also a few land-crabs, a reptile common among the Caribbee islands; and in Anguilla I have seen some as large as the biggest sea-crab: they are good meat, and are belt when caught after a whoever of rain; for then they leave their holes, in which they burroughs like rabbits, and go in search of food: the inhabitants, when they catch them, put them into a potatoes inclosure, where they aa e them for two or three days to sat ten, and they are said to thrive on such food ex extremely well.,1 d not remember to have seen either alligators or 2uanos, which are a smaller ort of alligator, on the Isthmus; but there are plenty of green and red f eked lizards of about a san long, which are innocent familiar creatures, and permitted by-the Indians to run about their houses unmolefed.,CHAP. VI. 'Cf ite birds, ad ether winged seizes &ncwn upon tilJ,I/dlhmus. H RE is a long, large-lodged, stately bird common to the woods here, called by the Indians chicaly-chicaly ; its note is sharp like that of the cuckoo, but much quicker, and its plumage,contains
contains the finest red, blue, and other lively co lours that can be imagined; of the feathers of the back the Indians sometimes make a sort of apron: the flesh is well-tasted, but blackish. This bird feeds on fruit flies from tree to tree, and rarely lights on the ground the quam is a well-tailed bird that keeps moil ly among the branches; his wings are of a dun colour, but his tail is short, lumpy, upright, and dark there is a russet-coloured bird, that seldom or never flies, hoped something like a partridge, with longer legs and neck, but a short tail the corrosion is a large heavy bird, living among the fruit-trees, and having a coarse, but delightful note, which the Indians imitate, and by practising it discover their haunts: the cock is blacker than the hen, and has on his head a crown of yellow feathers, which he moves at pleasure ; his gills are like those of a turkey. The Indians either bury the bones of this bird, or throw them into the ri ver, left the dogs hould eat them, in which ani mal, they say, they produce frenzy: the English in the West Indies have the same notion here is also a great variety of beautiful parrots, which are good food, and do not differ much from the generality of those found in Jamaica.,The parasites, which are most of them green, do not mix with the parrots, but fly in flocks by themselves the most beautiful bird I ever saw in my life is the macaw-bird; its feathers are an assemblage of the most delightful colours that can be conceived; its tail is bushy, with two or three red or blue feathers much longer than the rest: the pinions of the wings are in some all red, and in others all blue, and the rest yellow; its bill is like a hawk, and its shape very like that of a parrot, but it is twice,as
as large; they have naturally a hoarse deep note, but are excellent mimicks, and may be easily taught exactly to imitate a human voice: the Indians keep them as we do parrots and magpies, tame about the house, and when they are a little used to the family, and can chatter a few words, they let them fly among the wild ones to the woods, some of which they often decoy with them home, whither they constantly return with the evening, and give no. time of their arrival by fluttering about, and chat tearing in such a manner, that they have often given me high entertainment: the flesh is black, but good eating there is a woodpecker here, with a long slender bill, and firing claws, wherewith it can climb a tree, flicking very fast to it; it is coloured like our magpies, but more neatly, and is a smaller bird; they yield an earthy unpleasant favour; however, I have eat them with satisfaction when I could get nothing else: the Indians will not touch them they have a large and a small sort of poultry about the house; among the former are our com mon dunghill, the couple-crowned, and the game cock and hen, tho' the people here take no delight in cock-fighting. The latter have bushy tails and feathered legs; the tips of their wings are gene rally black, and they are very stately: they all crow on the approach of day, as our poultry do; they keep close about the house, and do not range far into the woods; they are pretty fat and well-tasted, for the Indians give them store of mais, on which they thrive extremely. This species of poultry has within these few years become common in England, where it multiplies fall, and is known by the name of the Guinea cock and hen. They are certainly a neat bird, and more handsome than any of the sort natural to these islands there are many different sorts of the sea-fowls,,not
not only among the Sanballoe islands, but all along the north coast; whereas on the south side, and in the bay of Panama, they are not so plenty: per laps this quarter doth not afford them so much fish as the other. The pelican is a large bird, short legged like a goose, with a great beak, and a long neck, which it carries upright like a swan; it is web-footed, and its feathers are of a dark grey colour; under the threat hangs a membrane which the seamen dry for a tobacco pouch, as it will hold near a pound, and in this the fowl lays up provision, which it takes out as it grows hungry. The young ones are raid to be good meat, and they feed on nothing but fish the cormorants of the Samballoes are shaped like ducks, and not much' larger; their flesh is coarse and rank they are black, with a white spot on the breast ; they are also web-footed like other ,water-fowls, and pitch on shrubs and trees near the water fide the sea-gulls and sea-pies are but indifferent ill-tasted food; to correct which, they are buried guts and feathers and all for eight or ten hours in the and, after which interment they prove much more agreeable, tho' rather smaller than ours there are bats on the Ifihmus as large as pigeons, with very long wings, the extremities of which are armed with claws that assist them in clinging to any thing in their way; they haunt old houses and deserted plantations among their flying insects are gnats, mulattoes, warps, beetles, and various sorts of flies, the molt remarkable of which are the shining-flies, which are of the nature of the glow-worm, and scattered among the thickets, appear like sparks of fire they have two sorts of bees, the one short, thick, and of a red colour; and the other long,,slender,
slender, and black: they nest on the tops or in the hollow of trees. The Indians thrust in-their arms and bring out the combs, during which aion they are never once Rung, though the beef perhaps coyer them from the shoulder to the finger-ends, and I :myself have often had them on my naked body, without feeling the leash matt; from whence I am inclined to think they have no-flings. The Indians drink the honey and water mixed, but of the wax they make no use; for instead of candles they have a light gummy sort of wood they have both flying and creeping ants, which fling and are very troublesome, especially when they make their wavyinto houses, which they often do. There is no lying down to rest any where near the hillocks that they raise; for they climb up the trees and get into the hammocks that are flung among them.,C H A P. VIL Of the f./b found upon this coasts M O N G the many kinds of miss found in the north Sea, I shall mention one few that fell under my notice, during my residence on that coast the harpoon is large, firm, and flaky :- ten of us dined heartily upon one that we caught near Car. ttagena, which yielded us besides a good quantity. of oil: this fill commonly weighs above. sixty. pounds sharks are not so common. here as in other parts of the WeR Indies; but there is a smaller fish some thing like it, called the dog-fishes which is a well flavoured food; its mouth is longer and narrower than that of the shark, and it has but one row of teeth.,The
The capable is found among the Sanballoes; it is about the bigness of a mackarel, but clean, slender and thing: it is a lively fish, with a bright large eye; it is good meat, rnoift, and well-tafted.,The old-wife is a flat fish that tastes well. The paracood is a round slender fish, longer than the pike, deemed very wholesome; there is a species of this fish caught off some particular banks so very poisonous that people die of having eaten them, and none escape without losing their hair and nails; this effeCt, I suppose, arises from Come particular kind of food that falls in their way. I have been told by several persons, that taking the back-bone powdered, has been found a certain an antidote against its effects, but that after taking it there remains a numbness and weakness in the limbs for a short while the poisonous paracood, some people will pre tend to distinguish from the wholsome paracood, by taking its liver, and if it be well-flavoured they dress and eat the flesh without any fear; but if the liver be bitter, and bite the tongue like pepper, they throw the fish away, concluding unfit for food there is a sort of fish found on the coast, called the gar-fish by the English sailors; some of them are two feet long; they have a long bone on the snout, of about one third of the length of the body, which is very sharp at there'd: they glide on the surface of the water as swift as a swallow, leaping out of the water thirty or forty times together. I have been told, that they move with such force that they will run their snout through the side of a canoe, and it is dangerous for a man to meet them, lest they shrike him through. The backbone looks bluish, of the colour of a sapphic; the flesh is very good the fuilpin is about a foot long, with a long prickly skin, which is stripped off before they redressed,
dressed, and then they prove good meat. The Sanballoes abound with shell-fish, particularly the couch, which is large and winding like the hell of a snail; the mouth of it is flat and very wide, in proportion to the bigness of the hell; the outside of it is coarse and rough, but the inside bright like mother-of-pearl: the fish itself is slimy and sandy, therefore there is a necessity for scouring it clean before it is dressed for eating; besides which, be. ing very tough, it must be beaten before it is sued to make it tender.,Periwinkles and limits slick to the rocks, and are good eating, more especially the latter the Isthmus has no lobsters nor oysters, and but a few crabs; and there is a craw-fish found among the Sanballoes, as large as the lobster but without the great claw: these are delicious meat, but the crabs are not near so goods am not well acquainted with their river-fifes, of which there are many different sorts, one being like our roach, but black and bony; they are about a foot long, very sweet, firm, and well-tafled.,There is another fish like the paracood, but smaller and better tafted.,There is also a fish about eight or ten inches long, shaped like our pike; the mouth of it is lib a rabbit's ; his teeth a little way within ; its lips are cartilaginous, and it is a very good fish. These are all the river-fish that fell under my inspection; wherefore I shall proceed to the methods, accord ing to which the Indians, who are very expect therein, catch their fish.,In the mouths of the rivers, and on the sea coat, where there are no rocks, they use a sort of drag. nets, made of malo bark or of silk-grass; but in the hilly country, where the streams are clear, and the banks perhaps too rocky to admit the use nets, without spoiling them, they-walk along the
side of the river, on which they have, their eyes narrowly fixed, and when they perceive any fish they instantly leap into the water, and wade or swim after it, turning as it turns, until the fish flies for shelter tp the brakes under the bank, which is very common, whither the Indians follow, and take them out with their hands. By night they go of ten fining in this manner with light-wood torches. Having gutted and cleaned their fife, they either bail it in water, or barbican it as they do the peccary They do not salt their fish for keeping, but generally boil with it abundance of pepper, as in deed they do with every thing else. Their way of making salt is to boil a large quantity of-seawater in an earthen pot till the fluid entirely evaporates, and the salt remains in a cake at the bottom: of this they are very careful, as the process whereby they obtain it is tedious and troublesome.,C H A P. VIII. che inhabitants of the Isthmus described: an accut of the mon-eyed or white people of the Isthmus: of their customs, manners, and ornamented HER E are inhabitants scattered all over the Isthmus; those on the south side near Peru re not so civil and familiar as the people of the orth side, where they are most numerous. The en are straight-limbed, big-boned, full-breasted, handsomely shaped, and near six feet high: I never aw one crooked or deformed person among them hey are native, and run very swiftly, The women have brisk eyes; they are short, lump, and well-shaped, but not so full of spirits the men. Both men and women are handsomely natured i their eyes are commonly grey and lively with I-
with high foreheads, good teeth, mouths ind;ffe. gently sized; and their nose, which is the world part of their face, is short and snubbed: they pride themselves vastly in long hair, and it is black, lank, and Strong, hanging lower than the middle of their backs; the women tie theirs close to the head with a firing, from whence it flows down. They have combs of macaw-wood, being ten or twelve small slicks, each tapering to a point, of the length of five or six inches, and joined together by the middle; with these they keep their hair from entangling, but they louse themselves with their fingers. They pluck all their hair from their eye. lids, eye-brows, and beards, the women being the-operators, with two little flicks: however, upon some great occasions, such as having-killed an ene. my, but particularly a Spaniard, the person who has done it cuts off all his hair, that being a mark of triumph: he also paints himself black, and re. pains that colour till the first new moon after com mission of the fat their natural complexion being orange, tawny, or copper colour, they use no art, either with their eye-brows, which are naturally like jet, or their hair, except that they smear the latter with oil, to make it line; nor do they confine their union to the hair of their heads but rub themselves all over, whether to give the kin a smoothness, to supple it, or to prevent it from parching under the heat of the climate, I cannot determine there is a species of people scattered up and down the Isthmus, perhaps not more than three hundred ill all, which differs entirely from the common in habitants, and the truth of what I assert respecting them can be attested by any persons who have been acquainted with this part of the world; they ate white, but their whiteness is like that of a horse, quite different from the fair or the pale European,
as they have not the least injure of abl.ufl in their faces. What adds to the whiteness of their skin. is a short milk-white down covering their whole bo dy, but not so thick on the forehead and cheeks as to conceal the skin; and it is my opinion that they would have white bristles for beards, if, like the rest of the people of the Isthmus, they did not keep the chin continually pulled: however, they never trouble themselves with suppressing the down on their bodies. Their eye-brows are milk-white, as is the hair of their head, being very fine, inclining to a curl, and growing but six or eight inches long; their eye-lids are oblong, forming a crescent with the points downward they seldom go abroad in the day-time, the fun being disagreeable to them, causing their eyes, which are weak and poring, to water, if it shines towards. them ; yet they see very well by moon-light, for which reason we call them moon-eyed; and, tho' they are heavy, dull, and inactive all day, at night they kip about the woods with great sprightliness, and activity: they are but short lived, ane less in - stature than the other Indians, who seem not to pay them much respect, but to look on them as somewhat monstrous; they are not a lifting race of themselves, but the casual offspring of copper co loured parents ; nor can it be said that they are the produce of an European copulating with an Indian, because the Europeans that come here are very few, and these few have scarcely any commerce with the Indian women; besides, they are in Come repeat. as different from the Europeans, as in others from the Indians: moreover, the child of an European. and an Indian is always a moliere or tawny, &c. For the generation of their colour, I confess. myself unable to account, but Lacenta supposed it to be caused by the force of the mother's imagination employed during conception, in contemplating
ing the moon. They paint'their bodies like th other Indians; nay, even those of the sucking chit drew, with forms of trees, birds, beasts, &c. thei face particularly cuts a droll figure thus ornament ed: the women are the painters, and take great delight in the work; the colours by them prince. pally esteemed are red, blue, yellow, &c. they mix them with oil, and keep them for use in cala. bathes; they generally lay them on the surface of the sin with wooden pencils, chewed at the end to the softness of brushes, and they will last fie weeks. It was in this manner they painted me: they also draw upon the skin the rough draught of what they intend to paint, and then prick the draught all over with a harp thorn till the blood gules out, when with their hand they rub in the intended colour, and by these means it becomes al most indelible.,Of the truth of this assertion, I was convinced, by endeavouring, at his own desire, to erafefrom the cheek of one of these people, a figure that displeased him; but I could not do it effectually, though I scarified him, and even cut off some of the skin when they go to war, they paint their faces red, and all the reR of their body with black and yellow spots or such other colours as they like bes; and these they wash off in the river every night before they sleep. They seldom wear cloaths, tho'if they can procure gaudy coloured gowns they prize them extremely. The women have only a piece of cotton cloth hanging down to their ancles, tied about their middle with a kind of pack-thread.; and the men cover no part but the privities, which they con real under a plantain leaf, or a piece of gold or silver, if they are worth it, formed like the extinguisher of a candle; they tie it very hard upon the penis, and fasten it to their waifs with a firing. They are in general a cleanly modest people, and even the men turn away from one another, when,3 they
they are about to make water; for which purpose they flip off their funnel, and as nimbly restore it when they have done. They have no sense of shame with reste to shewing the fundament, which they leave quite exposed; but both sexes ease themselves in the ri ver. They have however long fringed garments reaching down to their heels, which they wear upon solemn occasions; such as attending upon their chief, going to a wedding, or any other especial festival; I saw between two or three thousand of them once in waiting about the person of Lacenta; home in black, who preceded, and one in white who followed him, each having a lance coloured like his garment they do not march to the place of rendezvous thus equipped, but are followed thither by women whocarry their ornaments in a basket; and they dress upon the spot. Yet they seem fond of cloth ing, for I remember that one of them assumed a great air of grandeur, upon putting on an old hurt that had been given him by one of the flip's company. The men wear upon the nose a crescent of gold, silver, or other metal, which reaches over the lips, the extremities being fastened to the nostrils; and the women instead of plates wear rings, run quite through the nostril, which is there by often drawn down to the lip, especially in elder ly women these ornaments are generally removed while they are eating, and afterwards restored to their place, being first scoured bright; though they Sometimes barely raise them with the left hand, while they put the meat or drink to their mouth with the right; and though there plates and rings hang bobbing upon their lips; they are not much impediment to their speaking.,I don't remember that during the whole time of my residing here, I ever once saw a left handed,person.
person. The principal people wear large gold pendants, shaped like hearts, with the point down wards in the ear; which often, by the weight of them, is worn into a very great holes once saw Lacenta sit in council with a golden diadem on his head lined with network, the breadth of which, as near as Could judge, was nine inches; the top of it being indented like the teeth of a saw. And moll of his counsellors had bands round their forehead, of canes differently painted and hoped like his diadem, the tops of them being set round with very beautiful feathers; but none of them had their headpieces of gold, except Lacenta; who moreover had no feather in his they wear, besides there ornaments, bracelets of teeth, shells, or beads hanging from the neck down upon the breast; or to the pit of the flo mach. The firings of there bracelets are so con trivet, that the teeth of the uppermost fall into the notches made by those directly underneath; so that they look like one continued mass of bone. These bracelets are said to be composed of tyger's teeth, and though I never saw any myself upon'the con tient, several of our shipmates have, so I have no reason to doubt their existence either here or in the bay of Campechy, where they are said to be small but very fierce. Among these teeth they find room to interspersed bugles, or whatever other gewgaws fail in their way: and very often these brace lets will weigh thirty pound weight upon the women and double that quantity on the men.,In short, she is thought a poor woman that has not more than fifteen or twenty pound; however, they only wear them on occasions of state or solemnity when they will dance under these burthens till they are no longer able to sand. They always lay them aside at meals, or when they go to v;i or hunt.,CH A P
CHAP. IX. Of their buildings and plantations: their quos homemade; their weddings and manner of educating their children, T HEIR houses are of mud and wood, the foundation not finking more than two or three feet into the ground; and the topsof them, which slope, being covered with large palm and other leaves. They are commonly run up near a river side, in a scattering manner, without any disposition of streets or rows, but within call of each other ; certain distress having each a com mon warehouse: nor do they change their situation till the soil, which they never manure, is worn out; or till the Spaniards attempt to fall foul of them. Chimneys they have none, but a hole is made in the roof of the house, through which the fire kindled in the midst of it emits the fmcke.,7 here's no division of rooms, but every member of the family has his hammock tied up, and hanging from'end to end: their seats are blocks of wood, and they have neither doors, shelves, nor tables. Their ware-houses are about one hundred and twenty or one hundred and thirty feet long; the walls raised generally to the height of twenty feet, including ridge and all. In the sides or at the ends, are homemade at random, through which they annoy their enemies, on their first approach, with Shooting arrows. These houses are always seated oa the edge of a gentle hill, and the shrubs, trees, and underwood, cleared away round it, to the space of a bow-flot. They have a door at each end made of macaw wood, and bamboos bound together vol. V. 0 with
with switches, being about foot thick; and this barricade, supported by posts fixed in the ironic, they oppose against an enemy. However, there are holds whence the Spaniards easily drive them, by firing red hot arrows into the thatch, whereby all is set in a flame; there is generally a family of Indians inhabiting each of there houses, to keep them clean, and in them they hold their public assemblies they set 'mais round every house, by making a hole in the ground with their fingers, throwing in two or three grains, and then covering it with earth. The time of owing is in April, and of reaping in September and October. They pluck-off the ears of the mais with their hands, and lay it up in husks in their houses, rubbing it thence with the hand instead of threshing it; they don't make bread of flour, which is ground, from the grain when parched, between two stones, but mix it in a calabash with water, which we were often obliged to subsist on in our travels, there being several places where we could get no better pro vision they also, for the celebration of a wedding, or any other great festival, steep twenty or thirty bushels of mais in a vessel of water, which in a short time begins to grow four; then several old women having gotten calabashes for that purpose, chew grains of mais in their mouths, which they spit into these calabashes, and empty them, spittle and all into the four water, having first drawn it' off the mais that was first steeped in it, whereby it is set working; when the working abates, they pour it off the' sediment, and set it by for use; it is very windy and intoxicating, it drinks like four small beer, and they toss off large quantities of it, being very careful of wasting it, for their common drink is water from the next river, or mifaw,,which
which is extracted from the ripe plantain, either when it is fresh, or when dry: in the former case, they roast it with the kin on, and then marli it till it is dissolved; then mixing it with water, drink it as they want it: in the latter, they make a cake of the pulp of the ripe plantain, which they dry over a sow fire; for if the whole fruit was laid by, it would on rot; and as they stand in need of it, they break off a bit and mach it with water, car dying some plantain thus dried every journey with them: they eat the plantain boiled with their meat, as we do bread, also yams, potatoes, and the caf sava root roasted, for all there as well as pine ap les, of which they are very fond, grow in their plantations wherein I don't recollect I ever saw any kind of falling or herbs, except you'll reckon pepper among the former the men clear the plantations by cutting down the trees, and having let them lie three or four years on the ground to dry and wither, they set fire to them and burn them, together with the flumps and underwood all round; this is all the trouble the men take with their plantations; the women dig, plant. and pluck the mais, set yams, potatoes, &c. and i short, perform every sort of servile work that does not require any great exertion of strength; they have also the care of domestic affairs, as washing, cooking, &c. betides attending their husbands abroad, as servants. Yet, though the women are very great slaves, they go about every thing with such readiness, that their labour seems the entire effet of choice and not of compulsion. And to do them justice, they are kind, pitiful, and tender hearted, being very ready to assist strangers with every thing in their power, as well as loving and respectful to their husbands, who in return never treat them with the least roughness, nor do they at any time' quarrels 2 with,
with, or use them ill, whether drunk or sober; and in all the time of my acquaintance with the Indians, I never knew one man beat his wife, or give her any abusive language. About half an .hour after a woman in childbed is delivered, another woman takes her and the infant upon her back, and washes them in the river. Then the child is kept for a month tied by the back upon a straight piece of macaw wood, which is taken off when it is to be cleaned, and when the mother gives it ;luck, fie takes up board and all; when it has done, the lays it in a little hammock, the upper part of which is kept open with short slicks, to give it air: the boys are bred up to loot with arrows and pitch the lance, and are so expert in their exercises, that I have seen a boy of eight years old split a cane, with his arrow, at the distance of twenty paces several limes successively, and never once miss. The girls and other children remain at home with the old women, when the parents go out to hunt; but when-the boys come to be ten or twelve years old, and are able to carry a calabash and one provision, they go abroad too upon the chace the parents are very kind to their children, al. lowing them to dispose of themselves just as they think fit; their usual diversions being swimming and catching sith. The girls twill cotton yarn for fringes, and make ready the canes, reeds, and pal met leave;, for basket-making, which is the work of the men, and in which they are very curious; first dying the materials of many beautiful lively colours, and then weaving them so very close, that they will hold liquor; and as they make them of all sizes, they use them as often for drinking-cups as for other uses; for they are so very firm, that you may crush and throw them about, without doing them the slightest harm. When the yblng maids come to have their monthly courses, they're
MR. LIONEL WAFER. 29 are ot only veiled with a cotton veil, but hu from the sight of all men, even their own fathers S this confinement does rot indeed last long, for they, are on at liberty to go abroad again.,No females upon earth can be more models, for' they will lay hold of any part of a man in such aX manner, as plainly hews them extremely innocent and free from impure thoughts. They have a plu reality of wives; Lacenta had seven, and matters were so contrived when he went a hunting, that be always found one of them ready to receive him ar the end of every stage stealing and adultery are here punished with' death, except the woman swears (he was forced to be false; if otherwise, the is burned the manner of punishing him who deflowers a virgin is very severe, for a briar being thrust into, his penis, is there turned round ten or twelve times, so that if the part don't immediately mortify, it is a wonder; however, he has liberty to cure him self if he can. All there facts maud be proved by the witness swearing by his own tooth.,A new married bride spends the first seven-nights with her father, or the next male relation, in a private apartment, after which reflection, Ihe is, delivered to her husband ; and it seems to be meant to lew that-her friends are unwilling to part with her. When a man is about to dispose of his daughter in marriage, he invites all his acquaint dances for twenty miles round, providing a great feast to entertain them; the men that attend his invitation bring their axes to work with, and each of the women has about a half bushel of mais; the boys bring fruit and roots, and the girls; eggs and fowls; each of these lays his or her bur then at the door, and till the guests are all arrived; retire to one distance'; in the mean time, the host disposes of the gifts as he thinks proper, then the-,03 men
men visitors return first, and each is presented by the host with a calabash of firing liquor ; after which, he is sent through a house to an area be hind it; then follow the women, each being re. civet in the same manner; lastly come the girls and boys, who all drink at the door, and then fol low their parents after this reception, the fathers of the bride and bridegroom appear to the company, each lead. ing his respective child ; the father of the latter rakes a speech, and then having danced himself, almost dead, in which he is accompanied by the other, he gives his son to the bride, whose father kneels and holds her; and the young couple having: joined hands, the bridegroom is returned to her parent, and the ceremony concludes. The men then run with their axes, hollowing and hooping, to an adjacent tract of land, which they clear from the wood, continuing perhaps at that work for six or seven days; and as they clear the ground, the women plant it with mais, or whatever else is in season. This first step being taken, they join to: build a honte for the new-married couple; who enter it on the eighth day; and then the company, .ive themselves up to feasting, eating heartily, and drinking hard. However, before they begin to grow riotous, which they are very apt to do, the, bridegroom hides all their arms; and thus they continue together, one drinking, one drunk, some sleeping, and some chattering, until the li quod, which lasts perhaps four or five days, is quite exhausted ; after which consumption, they lit to recover of the intoxication, and return very soberly home. They drink to one another at meals, paving a certain compliment, and reach the cup to him whom they have drank to; the women, to whom they never drink, slant by, and attend .hem, and when the cup is empty, take it to fill,again,
again, after ringing it; when the feast, or indeed the meal is over, the wives retire to eat and drink by themselves chap. X. Of their domestic employments; their hunting hatches .provisions 'and kind of living. HE domestic occupations of the men, who seem naturally inclined to indolence, is to make lances, baskets, cups, arrows, and arrow heads; or else they are employed in notching a hollow cane, in which, by blowing strongly, they produce a kind of whining noise, without any me lady; they are fond of drumming upon any thing that falls in their way; and it is very rare that you won't at sometime or other find every individual of a dining company hmtniing to himself.,At.other times, thirty or forty of them will dance together, forming a ring, and having all the joints of their body in a very antic manner, while one or perhaps two or three divided from the ring, jump about and play such tricks as our tumblers; throwing and catching their-lance, bend ing backward to the ground, and springing for ward again, in all which exercises they display more activity than art or order; their dancing bouts commonly succeed a short drinking match, and lads five or six hours; when they chufe'to give over, they leap into the river, though in the most violent sweat; and having washed themselves clean, come out, and stroke the wet with their hands from their bodies and head; the women never share in their pastimes, but when they have their dancing and fuddling bouts, for they will get tipsy too, among themselves. but the men never go to dance when they have drank very hard.,0 4 When
When the husband is quite drunk, two or three women assist the wife in laying him in his ham mock, where they wash his hands, feet, and face, very gently, to cool his body, sprinkle it with wa ter, which they wipe off, as it begins to grow warm, and throw on fresh I have seen a dozen of them stretched out and attended in this. manner as ter a merry meeting the men never go out of doors, though it be but to make water, without being armed with a bow, arrow, lance, hatchet, or long knife. In times of peace, they are always hunting a family or two together, but they have often large hunts, in-which twenty or thirty families join ;. there being seldom a solemn council or feast held without con eluding in a match of this sort, every member be ing summoned at a certain time specified, to at tend with proper necessaries at a particular place of rendezvous. They will continue on these excursions perhaps seventeen-or eighteen days together, j.it as they find game, and sometimes they pro need to the borders of their own country, and traffic with their neighbours, hunting all the way and at all seasons, the venison being alike to them at all times; the women attend to carry burthens and do any little necessary office in all these expeditions having with them baskets-of parched mais, plantain, balances, yams, potatoes, and cassava roots, ready roasted, lest they hould not meet with any in the woods ; though there is scarcely any fear of missing it.,They are all barefooted, and mind not the Scratches they are exposed to as they pas along; they never hunt before sun-rise, and always pitch their-tents at sun-set, if possible on an elevated ground, in the neighbourhood of a brook or river. They suspend their hammocks among the boughs, near a good fire, and cover themselves with a plantai,leaf,
leaf, as shelter against the severity of the weathers They cut their game, or in lieu of it, their barbi cued flesh, into small bits, and throw it into a pip kin, with plantains, balances, and. a great deal? of pepper, keeping it fimmering;for seven or eight hours over a gentle fire, till it is boiled to a mash i, of this they make but one meal a day, for the re gaining part feeding on the plantains. or balances ;, they pour their mash into a large earthen dish or. calabash, and putting it on a large block, over,- which they spread a plantain leaf instead of a table cloth, sit round it on little. blocks of wood; they. are strangers to the nfe of spoons, but dip the fin gers of the right hand,. southey never use the left, into the dii ;. and.grafping-as much as. they can,. put it into their mouths, between every, mouthful wetting their hand, in. a bowl of water that lies.- near them, whether for cooling or cleanliness, can't determine; but they eat their meat piping; hot, as well as strongly peppered; taking every. now and then two or three grains of salt by way of; relilh.,In their travels they are guided either by the. course of the fun, notching the trees as they pass to find where the. bark. is. thickest, that being al ways to the southward;. or making some particular. spot their beacon, to-which they take the.fhorteft; road through. the woods, which over-run thecoun try; which as-they pass, they clear with their axes.- If a river impedes their progress, men,. women, and: children, plunge in and swim over it; .but when, there is a- necessity for their coasting down the. stream, they either use a canoe, or. a bask. made of. light wood. They compute their seras. by. the. moon, being strangers .to every other planetary re volution; and I remember-to have heard Lacenta,. v'hen speaking of the havock. made .in this part of ,0 & th.
the world by the Spaniards, observe that it was many moons since they have no notion of dividing the day into hours, &c. but if they have a mind you hould be informed that a thing 'happened so many nights since, they express their meaning by leaning their hand on their head as if asleep; repeating the ac tion as often as they would enumerate nights. And thus by allusive motions, they explain themselves where their language is not understood. They reckon from units to tens and scores, but beyond a hundred they can't go; for a number above it, they hold up a lock of hair, sorting it gradually with their fingers and shaking it; but to signify an innumerable number, they (hake all the hair on one side of the head. I remember that some one of them having a mind to know how many men cap tain Sharp had with him, when he marched three hundred and thirty-fix men, of which I was one, across the country, sat down in a place where he could view every man as he passed by; for each of whom he threw a grain of mais, out of an heap that flood by him into a basket; and .being put out by one of our men, who overturned his basket, he removed to another spot, where he renewed and completed his work; but the great difficulty re gaining was, to count the number of grains, at which enumeration, exceeding probably their arithmetical terms, some of the graver and more think ing part having laboured for some days, not with out many warm debates, the consultation was at last ended by one of them starting up, who by shaking a lock of hair, shewed the number of captain Sharp's men to be great and unknown they reckon by one,' two and three, up to ten, which in their language is called anivego, at which number they clap their hands together, and for every number after ten they strike the fingers of,the
the left hand one by one with the fore-finger of the right, expressing the quantity by repeating it. thus, ten and one, ten and two, &c. till they come to twenty, when they clap, their hands twice toge ther; at thirty, which they call twenty and ten, they do it thrice; and at forty four times, and so on to a hundred, which seems to be these plus ultra of' their best arithmeticians. Having thus given the best account of the Indians of the Isthmus, that observation furnished me with; I hall now pro need to relate my voyage in the Batchelor's De light, captain Davis commander, from Realeja on the Mexican coast, to the southward ; as some in cents thereof may prove entertaining as well as useful chap. XI. Mr. wafer's voyage along the coat of Peru and,1Chili. A August the 27th, 1685, we left Realeja, A with three other vessels in company, but the men growing very sick soon after we were out at Tea, a spotted fever having crept in among them,. we put into the gulph of Amapalla; and built tents shore on a mall island, for those who were disordered. Provisions beginning, after some delay here, to run (short, we went over to a beef elation on the continent, to supply our necessities ; in. our way thither, it being about three miles-from our landing-place, in crossing an open' savannah, we were forced to wade through a hot river issuing from under an hill, that had no appearance ofa- volcano; it was clear and hallow, and under the hill there arose steams, as if from a boiling pot, which wetted my hair; several of our mep, who:,0 6 were
were tainted with the itch, were cured by this at accidental bath, and they attributed their recovery te the sulphureous particles wherewith the water wa impregnated.,In this place was great plenty of wolves, o very bold that they were near pulling the flesh out o our hands; we kept them off as well as we could but did not dare to fire at them, left the noir should have brought down more to their assistance which might have been dangerous as we straggle about.,Our men being pretty well-recovered, we flood away to the southward, and came to an. anchor of the island of Cocos, in latitude five degrees fifteen minutes; this is a finally, pleasant island, abound ing with very fine coco nuts, particularly in the valley where we landed, the soil being rich and fruitful: here are many springs oF clear water, bu the bell are on the top of a delightful hill that rise ia the middle of the island, where nature has pro vide a large baron as a reservoir for them; pve the verge of which, the water swelling gently trickles down in several mazy little firearms, forming as it flows, cataract and arches; and this, added to the fragrance of the trees, the flowery verdure of the island, the distant view of the sea, and ths sweetness of the refreshment, rarely to be found ii so hot a climate, contribute to make.it one of the most delightful spots in the universe here we flocked ourselves with water and coco's the milk of the latter being very good. Before w left this charming place, off which our Flip rod very safety, some of our men determined to drin] a bellyful of coco-milk, which they accordingly did ; and though none of them were drunk in con sequence of their feasting thus, yet they were fc chilled, and their nerves in such a manner relaxed that they could neither go nor land.; so that suche
of their mess-mates as had not Shared in their frolic, were obliged to carry them on board,. and it was four or five days before they recovered from hence we departed,. keeping still south. ward course, to the Gallapagos islands, on one of which there is but one place to water at; here we found a very large land-tortoise of the hearer sort; it used to drink where we watered, but never ventured to wet itself. In this hand we careened, and the birds, among which were many fine turtle doves, were so familiar with us on our first com ing, that they perched upon our heads and arms - however, they shortly after grew more hy, and. what we used we were forced to hoot: guanos. are plentiful here, and we found a low tree, thicker than a pear tree, of a very fragrant smell; from, whence we extracted an odoriferous gum. While we lay among these hands, we took off one of then five hundred packs of flour, that we had formerly left behind us; a great deal of which had been de poured by the turtles from there islands we steered towards the coast of Peru, where we took the towns of Pica and Guacha, not without some loss; we had several other skirmishes, in relating which, we shall not now detain you; captain Knight was along with us, and we were left at the island of Cocos,. by the two other vessels that had accompanied us from Amapalla. This was in the year 686. While we lay by to clean in the island of Gorgonia I observed a species of monkeys very fond of oysters, which at low water they brought off the banks; and. laying them on flat stone, beat them. with another, till they broke the hell, and then they took out the meat and ate it.,At La Nafca, in latitude fifteen. degrees south, there is a wine strong as Madeira, and of much the same flavour, brought hither down the countrymen
in jars of eight or ten gallons a-piece, and hipped for Lima, Panama, and other ports; it stands ex. posed to the open air, every man having his own mark on each parcel, and it will keep thus many years we took in good store of itt here is a large town, in south latitude twenty nine degrees, which has nine churches, and is called Coquimbo. Here we landed in a deep bay sand, in a large bay, into which a small river dis. charged itself; the banks of which are spangled with gold, with the dust whereof our people, as they travelled along, were covered; but it was too fine to gather, b-;n so intermixed with sand: the place to look for meinal of sufficient weight to pay for searching ater i. is near the heads of rivers among the hills, for there the weightier pieces of gold stick fast, whi le the finer and useless dust is washed off to the sea.,In the island of Juan Fernando, captain Knight left us, fleering round Terra del Fuego, to the West Indies; while we determined to coast back toward the line, having with us a bark which we took off Pica. From Juan Fernando, in order togain a wind, and have as much of the coast before us as we could, we flood over for thirty-nine degrees south latitude, and being in want of-provision and water, came to anchor near the island of Mocha, about the middle of December 1686. Here we staid five or six days, and flocked ourselves with all necessary refreshments; the sea-coast of the hand of Mocha, which island lies in thirty-eight degrees twenty-minutes south, is low and sandy, but it is a fertile soil about the middle of the island, producing mais, wheat, and variety of grain and fruit; here some of the Spanish Indians have little convenient dwelling-houses, and are well tired with poultry, horses, and heep.,The latter is a very lately beast, about four feet and a half high ; it has a small neck like a camel's,,and
and its ears are like those-of an ass; he is full chested like an horse, with the loins of a well shaped greyhound, and the buttock of a full grown deer; it has cloven feet like a keep, and in each foot a sharp claw like an eagle's, two inches above the division of the hoof, wherewith it climbs rocks, and grasps extremely fast; the wool on the belly. grows twelve or fourteen inches long, but on the back it is porter, shaggy, and curling; it is an innocent serviceable beast, of great use in all the Spanish settlements, but particularly in the gold mines, where loading, and leading them into a parti ocular pass, they leave them, and they will find their way safely with their rich burthens, through roads and other precipices, that it is almost impossible' for any living creature but themselves to traverse; their matters taking a large seep to meet them. It is also said, that the inhabitants of a town where' water is scarce, make two jars fast upon one of these beads, and turn him loose without a driver, when he goes directly to a river at force miles distant, having been once (hewn the way; and by plunging quite into the water, fills his jars and re turns home with his acquisition. That they have an aversion to work after day-light, we found from experience, for no beating would prevail upon them to reassume it, or had any effect on them, but making them groan piteously. Two of us, and those not the smallest sized among us, used to bridle one of these sleep, and mounting upon it, ride round the island, and drive the rest to the fold, going a hand gallop all the way; nor did it seem to like going an easier pace. \Ve found in many places twisted horns, which we supposed had been hed by them, though we never saw any of them that were horned; they have heads like an antelope, and a mouth like a hare; the heirship
lip opening above, as well as the main lip, when it bites the grass from Mocha we flood over to and sailed along the coast of Chili, till we came into south latitude twenty-fix degrees; here our water growing scarce, we put our canoes ashore to search out the river Ca payapo;. and in hopes to be able to descry it, we climbed a very high hill, but from the top of it we had no consoling sights or prospects, except that of a craggy unpleasant hill rising above the one we had passed, and another after that; and here being quite faint for want of water, I swooned away, having no. refreshment but my own urine: in our course over these barren mountains and craggy rocks, though there was not the least sign of water, we found. plenty of fish hells, incorporated with-the mars or throwing the ground an appearance for which I could not possibly accountable found it was in vain to look for the river Copayapo. We were told indeed by the Spaniards that at a particular season, this river over flows its boundaries, being encreased by the melted snows pouring down from the neighbouring noun. pains; it may possibly be as well from the rains falling on the mountains far within-the land: for though it never rains on the coast of Chili or Peru; yet from the clouds that we have often seen hover ing over the inland hills, we have some. reason to. think, that in those spots it does rain sometimes; I remember at one time, when I could not see the top of Arica, for the vapour that entrapped it; yet at other times, it was clear and visible: to. compensate for their want of rain, they have very heavy dews, the effet. of. which. on the soil is prodigious the coast of Copayapo-is- barren and desolate, as it is all along that of Peru and Chili, where nothing is to be seen but bare rocks, and a most,uncomfortable
uncomfortable tract of desart land, void of the least verdure, without bird, beast, or inhabitant, except here and-there a sorry port, where perhaps there were two or three houses: though scarce water enough, except at high water, to swim a cock boat. Milling water at Copayapo, we steered to Art ca, a pretty town of Peru, well situated on the bending of the coast, in eighteen degrees odd minutes south latitude. The harbour here is tole rally good, and here the silver of Potofi is hip pet for Panama; the sea runs so high, and dashes so violently all about the coast, except just at Ari ca, that there is no landing. This town, which we plundered, all the surgeons except myself be ing killed in the attack, stands upon a small river, which was so brackish from the sea-water dashing into it, that we could make no use of it; here we got some sugar, wine, and a few hogs; in this place I saw a whole house filled with Jesuits bark however, a little farther to the leeward, we wa tered at the river Ylo, which I remember at some times to be a good stream; and at other times al most quite dry. It flows through one of the plea faintest vales on the Peruvian coast, and the inhabitants introduce it, by little streams, through all their ground. The soil about it produces olives, sugar, figs, China oranges, and variety of other fruits; with a multitude of the molt useful vegetables This valley, as indeed are all those of Peru and Chili, is the more pleasant, from the rough, barren mountains that hang over them ; which are generally a black or iron rock.,Nor was it for water only we were often in great distress while on this coast; food wasfometimes as Scarce and as valuable and I remember once, fine. of us were so hungry, that we fed on raw crabs, and even sea-weeds; and having seen a lean horse,that
that was grazing near at hand, we made a fire of sea-weeds, whereon to roast the flesh; but were so impatient for food that we gobbled it up when scarce heated, and carried the guts carefully on board with usa bout thirty of our people, of which party I made one, having landed at Varmejo, in ten de green south latitude, in search of water and re. fi-element, after having marched about four miles upon a light sandy soil, found dead bodies of men, women, and children, scattered for near half a mile together so thick upon the ground, that we could scarcely pass without treading upon them; to all appearance, they seemed as if not more than a week dead at most; but when handled, they were as light as a spunge and quite dry; we inquired the cause of this phenomenon from a Spanifh Indian, who was ranging along the sea-side, searching for weed to dress his company's fish, for he belonged to a fishing-boat that lay near; and this man told us that this was formerly a verdant fertile soil; that hereabouts stood the city of Wormia, which was extremely rich and populous; and that when the Spaniards besieged the place, and it was evident that it could not hold out against them, the ina. giants unanimously chose to bury themselves alive, rather than be subservient to them; and that the dryness of the soil had preserved the bodies from mouldering by the men lay their broken bows; and distaffs, with cotton-yarn and spinning-wheels lay by the remains of the deceased women.,CHAP
CHAP. XII. Mr. [Safer's voyages concluded. IN south latitude eight degrees forty minutes,,ilands a town called Santa, about three miles from the sea, the road to it lying over a small hill; on the inland side of which. hill lay, when I was there, three hips of sixty or one hundred tons a. piece; they seemed very ruinous; and we were informed by an Indian, whom we asked concern ing them, that about nine years before they rode in. the neighbouring bay, whence an earthquake re moved the water quite out of sight for twenty. four hours; after which, it returned with prodigious increase and vast violence, bearing every thing before it; sweeping over the hill, whereof, the town then flood, which it laid in ruins, and, carrying the Ships to the spot wherein I saw them., This story was confirmed to me by the parish priest, and many others of the molt creditable inhabitants Having continued hovering about this coast, to little purpose, a long while, we returned to the, Gallapagos, under the line; and resolving to make the belt of our way out of there seas, bent our course for the southward, determining to touch no where till we came to the island of Juan Fernando As we kept on this course, we were, about lour o clock one morning, being then in south 'ritude twelve degrees and thirty minutes, and bout one hundred and fifty leagues from the main land of America, surprized with a most terrible ?hock; which made us give up all hopes of life, is we thought the vessel mute have-bulged against ' hj n lock; the men were taken by it our of.,their
their hammocks, captain Davis was pitched out of his cabbin upon the floor; we heaved the lead as fat as possible, and were surprized to find no ground, and that the flip ill kept-under way these observations induced us to conclude it was the rock of an earthquake, and in this conjecture we were determined by the colour of the sea be. ing changed from a green to a muddy white co. lour; and the water, which we took up in the bucket, being mixed with sand. We were after. wards informed, that, at the same time, there was an earthquake at Callao in the Lima-road, where. by the sea ebbed so far from the shore, as to disappear for one time, when it returned with great fierceness, and carrying all before it, even he (hips out of the road, which were borne above a league up the country, overflowed the city of Callao, which flood upon a little hill, together with the fort; for sixty leagues along shore, did incredible mischief, reaching even to Lima, though six miles within land from Callao.,Having recovered of our fright we kenton our way, fleering south and by east, till we arrived in lath tide twenty-seven degrees and twenty minutes when about two hours before day we were alarm ed with a roaring noire like that of the sea break ing on the beach, right a-head of the (hip; where upon, fearing we hould be shore, the captain consented to back her courses till day-light; 01 the appearance of which we found ourselves off: low flat island, free from rocks; and about tweli leagues to the west a range of high lands, which from the partitions in the prospers we judged t be a cluster of islands. We would have gon ashore here, but the captain not permitting it, keF on his way to Juan Hernandez, where we arrive the latter end of the year 687, and having clear ed our hip and quitted our bark, we steered ft,Moth
Mocha, to take in sheep to serve us in our voyage round Terra 'del Fuego; but the Spaniards had been before-hand with us, and carried away or de, toyed the sheep, horses, and every other living creature on the island, as they had also done at San ta Maria; so that we were forced to subsist upon such provision as .we brought with us from the Gal, lapagos, consisting chiefly of flour, mais, salted tortoise, and the fat of it, of which we had about sixty jars made into oil. Three of our men having lollft at play all they were worth, and being unwilling to return home as poor as they went, desired to be left behind at Juan Hernandez, in hope they might be able to find some privateer going upon an expedition of some consequence; their request was granted, and they were supplied with a small canoe, some axes, mais, and other necessaries. They remained here about a year, when they were taken up by a privateer. During their slay upon the island they planted some mais, which throve exceedingly well; and besides, having folds of goats which they tamed, they wanted neither for fish nor fowls; of the latter there is an amphibious sort, of a grey colour, not larger than a pullet, which feeds on fifa, and bur roughs under ground like a rabbit; it eats well after being buried for Come hours. Standing out to sea to double Terra del Fuego, we had a terrible storm for three weeks before we reached Cape Horn, being at that time in sixty two degrees and forty-five minutes of south latitude, and we weathered it but indifferently, our seamen being none of the ablest running hence to the northward, in order to get out of the South Sea, we fell in with several islands of ice, which at first we took for real land, 2nd as we could find no bottom with the log-line, we inferred that they might be as deep in the wa-ter
ter as-they rose above it, that being a considerable( height; and I-remember there was one near five hundred feet higher than the surface: these were phenomena that I missed when in these seas with captain Dampier; nor did captain Sharp in his re turn hence meet any of them. Some of them we could discern at good distance in the night; but others lay under water, so that we were not aware of them till we struck, which we did several times, whereby our vessel was severely shocked. During the three weeks that our vessel lay to the south of Cape Horn, the weather was so bad, and the sky so cloudy, that we could take no observation, nor count our latitude; however, supposed ourselves in sixty-three degrees of south latitude, which is farther to the southward than any other body ever probably was. By keeping too much upon an east north-raff course we were really above five hun. died leagues off land, though according to our rec koning we were then not one hundred; wherefore we stood in for the land; but having run one hun. dress of leagues to the westward, in the same lat tide, and descrying no land, we began to be quite out of heart through fear of starving at sea, our flock of provision being almost quite exhausted: in this extremity we had some relief by a very plentiful showers rain, the water of which we saved in cafl,We had now run four hundred and fifty leagues in this latitude, without meeting land, upon which many of the crew grew mutinous, and insisted we should change our course, which had been certain' ly agreed to, hadn't captain Davis and Mr. Knot, with great entreaty, prevailed on them to continue it only two days longer, promising to a as they pleased afterwards, if in that time they did not come up with some land: the ensuing day the wind being small, we had a flurry from the west, which threw on board of us one locusts and other il,fcts,
sets, a very certain sign of land. This was a pro identical accident; for had it not happened, the men would have been for changing the course, be ino through ignorance persuaded they were Rill in the South-seas, and we should, in that case, have all inevitably perilhed.,However, we made to the point whence this windfall had come, and shortly came up with land a little to the northward of the mouth of the river Plate, where we immediately put shore for pro vision. Here our men chancing to discover a herd of swine on a point of land, armed themselves with cutlasses and fuzees, and while one of them guard ed the pass that led to the hills to flop their retreat, others advanced upon them, and the wine retired towards the ea, on the edge of which they flood, gazing upon, and, as it were, admiring them and their arms; but how miserably were the poor sail ors disappointed, when coming up with brandished cutlass to cut them down, they saw the whole herd leap into the sea and disappear !these proved to be an amphibious animal, call ed sea-wind, their flesh tasting very like pork, but a little fishy; for, some time after, we chanced to shoot a couple and bring them on board: they are of a black colour, hoped like swine, with short bristly hair, and finny flumps wherewith to swim. The country hereabouts is uninhabited, though it is fertile and well-watered, abounding with black cattle, deer, and ostriches. The ostrich is a bird which is said to lay its eggs in the-sand, where they are hatched by the fun, and the young chicken provides for itself: it is a very stupid bird, and will follow the first thing it meets; we have eat many of them while young, but the old ones are very coarse food, and grow to a pro vicious size; this bird is reported to feed on iron,,but
but without any truth ; it swallows iron as poultry do pebbles, not for food, but by way digestion; for it will eat up any thing that falls in its way, as old nails and rusty knives putting off to sea again, we coasted along Brasil, and thence made for the Caribbee islands; where meeting with Mr. Edwin Carter, in a Barbadoes sloop, who informed us of king James's having pub. lifted a proclamation, whereby he pardoned all buc. cancers, I went aboard his flip, and sailed up the river De la War into Pennsylvania, and so to the city philadelphia, where I arrived in Ma.i1688,,Hence, after one slay, I fell down to Apokun, numb creek, with captain Davis and John Higgins. son, who was left with me on the Isthmus, where we brought our chess and other goods in cartsover a small neck of land into Bohemia river, which leads down the great bay of Chifapeek, to point Com. fort, in James's river in Virginia. Here I intended to have fettled, but my time of rest was not yet ar. rived; for after residing in this place three years, I was obliged, by some cross accidents,. to remove, and returned home to England in te year 1690.,As
.Plan file Labor of - CARTRAGEN~A,- %1 21' 1Iade/o:X,[gin~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~ni pw~~rtS'i~ p-,*,:Â·Â· t ~~~Â·-~~~ q-. Ir~Â· * nan
ACCOUNT of the EXPEDITi-ON,against Carthage, in the,WEST. INDIES, besieged by the ENGLISH in the year 1741. E England having declared war against Spain,;,in.the year 1739, the government rxeolived toT dishes the enemy by attacking their positions: in the West Indies; and for that purpose a plan was proposed by colonel Spotfwoodl governor of Vir ginia: in consequence of which, he was empowered. to raise a regiment of Americans, consisting ofefour battalions, to serve under his command again the Spaniards but he dying before the fcheme.iouJd bhe put in execution, this regiment was given to colonel;' Gooch, who succeeded him in the governments-that colony. ' .the lieutenants were appointed in England, at the recommendation of the lord Cathcart, who com handed all the land forces on the intended expedition and he chose for this service young gentlemen of family, chiefly North Britons, who had learned the rudiments of the military art in Holland and other foreign services, and consequently were the better qualified to discipline a new raised' regiment. There had commissions signed by his majesty's own hand, but the captains and ensigns were appointed by the governors of the different provinces in which the companies. were levied, according to a power veiled in. them by the king for that putpofe,,VOL. V. P . Wl.U
While there officers were employed in raising and disciplining the companies in North America, six re giants of marines were levied in England, by means of draughts made from the foot-guards, the command of them bestowed upon gentlemen of cha. racer and capacity for military operations, and all possible pains taken to render them immediately fit for service in the West Indies, to which the seat of war was to be transferred. A squadron was equip pet, and actually sailed under the auspices of com moore Anson for the South Seas, in order to har rays the Spaniards on the coasts of Chili and Peru, and if possible to establish a correspondence across the Isthmus of Darien, with the fleet and army def tined for Cartagena, so as to co-operate for the ad vantage of the nation the marine regiments being well disciplined, and having for some time encamped in the Isle of Wight, were embarked on board of eighty transports with all sorts of warlike utensils that might be necessary in the expedition, and detachments from three old regiments were went on board of the men of war appointed to join admiral Vernon on the same service. These worships. Guns. Commanders.,Sir Chaloner Ogle,rear- The Russel, 80 . admiral of the. blue,,t captain Norris. Captain Gascony, hav ing on board lord Cathy Today, o .cart, general of shetland forces. Cumberland, 80 Captain Stuart. Boyne, 80 Commodore Leftock. :Princess Amelia, 8o Common. Leamington. Chichester, o8 Captain Robert Trevor. Ni4rfoik, 80 Captain Grave.,The
Ships. Guns. Commanders. The Shrewsbury, 80 Captain Townlhend.,Princess Caroline, 80.Captain Griffin. Suffolk, 7o Captain Davies. Buckingham, 70 Captain Michel. Orford, 70 Lord AuguRus'Fitzroy. Prince Frederic, 7o Lord Aubrey Beauclerk. Prince of Orange, 70 Captain Osborne. Lion, 60 Captain Coterie. Weymouth, 6o Captain Knowles, Superb, 60 Captain Harvey. Montague, 60 Captain Chalmers: Hertford, 60 Captain Moftyn. Jersey, 60 Captain Lawrence. Augusta, 60 Captain Dennis. Dunkirk, 60 Captain Cooper. Ripon, 60 Captain Solis. York, 60 Captain Coates. Lichfield, .50 Captain Cleveland. Â£tna, Firebrand, I Phaeton, Phaeton, > Fire-hips. Vesuvius, Flame, 1 Vulcan, J Two bomb ketches, and hofpital-ibip, store-ships, &c. This noble fleet sailed from St. Helens on Sunday, October the 26th, in the year 1740, with a fine breeze at east north-east, which continued till Fri day the 3 ft, when the weather looked . squally a- fiery, and at night it blew a hard gale; and this, in the morning of Saturday, November the gift en creaSed to a violent storm, which did abundance of damage in several hips, splitting sails, carrying away masts, and throwing every thing in confusions 2 The
The author of this account, who was on board of one ofthe-largefi ships ins the fleet, .says, he was waled early in the morning, by. a dreadful concert, produced from the clanking of chain-pumps, the creaking of gun-carriages, the cracking-of cabins strained by the violent motion, the dashing of the sea, the howling of the wind, the rattling of the ringing, and the confused clamours of six. hundred men, running up and down the deck in confusion,,Nor Was the eye more agreeably.entertained than the leaf: for, whence got up and'mounted the ac commutation-ladder, he found the prosper altogether dismal. Of all the fleet, seven sail only were to be seen, and of there, two had lost their malls, while the others scudded under reefed main-sails; the billows were incredibly wait and tremendous: there was nothing to be seen on board, but tumult, uproar, an't dismay; the flip pitched with such violence, that the mails quivered like sender twigs; a calk of water broke from its lashings on deck, and maimed sixteen men before it could be staved; the main-sail was split into a thousand tatters, and the yard being manned to bend another in its room, one of the braces gave way with such a hock, as threw four men-over board, two of whom were lost, while the knee of a fifth was crushed in a terrible manner between the peril and the mast nevertheless, the wind being fair, they made shift to lie their course under a ballanced mizen, going at a great rate, 'and on Monday at noon, though the weather was fill very boisterous, with rain and hail, forty sail of the fleet appeared in sight, and from this period assembled again gradually. On Saturday the 8th, the Orford gave chace to a vessel plying to the eastward, and brought her into th fleet under French colours. On Monday captain Leftock and captain Leamington hoisted broai,blu
blue pendants as commodores; and on.,lednefday the line of battle was altered, because the Cumber land was still missing, since the form on the St of November. All Monday the 17th it rained and. blew very. hard: next day, the weather being mild, all hands diverted themselves with striking dolphins, which are a beautiful species of fill, as they swim along-side, and when distraught, exhibit a charm ing variety of bright colours. They are in con tindal pursuit of the flying-fish, which is about the size and make of a herring, furnished with mem brands sins, by means of which it rises above the surface, and flies a considerable space in order to avoid its persecutors.,On Wednesday the, Igth, the wind proved con tray, though in those latitudes where it generally blows from the east during the whole year.,On Tuesday the 25th, a man belonging to the Chichester, jumped overboard and drowned him self, in resentment for having undergone the hame ful discipline of the hip for vermin. The weather growing sultry and calm, about this time, began to produce ardent fevers among the men, and in a few days the fleet became very sickly i but no thing material occurred friday December the Seth, after having lain to several nights, on the supposition of their being in the neighbourhood of land, they sailed along the coast of Martinique, Guadaloupe, and Marigalante, islands possessed by the French, and came to anchor in the bay of Dominique, which is a neutral sand, though one parts of it were fettled by French ad venturers. The very day after their arrival at this island, the expedition sustained an irreparable loss, by the death of.Chailes lord Cathcart, a nobleman of distinguished valour, capacity, and experience in the military art, whose character ws, in all re-,P3 rpesÂ»
fiefs, truly amiable, and whose fate was univer. sally regretted, more especially as he was succeeded in command by brigadier-general Wentworth, an osier who had neither knowledge, weight, nor self-confidence sufficient to conduct an enterprize of such importance the fleet remained seven days at Dominique, for the convenience of wooding and watering, during which period, tents were pitched along shore for the accommodation of the sick; and those slipped with the scurvy recovered in a surprizing manner, solely from their enjoying the land-air, and plenty cffrefh-water; for, the hand produced no other refreshments, although the soil is fertile, and naturally abounds with lime, lemon, and orange-trees; but the bloom had been destroyed by a hurricane, and the few planters who were on the island, had removed their provisions and flock, for fear of be. ing plundered by the Englishmen Friday the 26th, the whole fleet sailed from Dominica, and next hay passed by Montserrat and Nevis, which saluted the admiral with their can non, and ass red a pleasant prosper of green, fruitful fields, level towards the shore, and swelling up into mountains farther in the countrymen Saturday they arrived at St. Christopher's, zrd adored in Bale-Terre road, where they sir d his c::aflv's flip the Leoftoff and a good n mer if velTs;;, which had parted from them in t' Form ned endeavoured litre, in pursuance of t-e!r i::i:ructic.'s. Next day the admiral proceeded o:1 his voyage. with fair weather, sailing in sight of the verdant islands of Fame, anta-Cruz, Porto rico, and Hispaniola, the sicut being by this time increased to one hundred and eighteen fast, till the afternoon of l{Vednefdav January the 7th, when they delcriecafive large ships towards the shore.,The
The admiral immediately made signal for the Orford, the Prince Frederic, the Weymouth, the Dunkirk, and the York, to give chace, while he and the fleet continued their course for Jamaica. They accordingly came up with the five ships, which were French men of war; and lord Augustus Fitzroy, who commanded the Orford, ordered their commodore to hoist out his boat and come aboard This order the French captain refusing to obey, his lordship gave him a broadside, and a ve-ry obstinate engagement ensued. The two squadrons being equally matched, fought al night with equal courage, and in the morning, the English commodore seeing French colours displayed, hailed his antagonist, and pretended he h,.d mistaken them for Spaniards ; the battle was forthwith suspended, mutual compliments passed, and having treated each other with great marks of politeness, they parted with the loss of about an hundred men killed on each side, among whom was captain England Qofthe marines worthy gentleman, and a gallant officer mean while-Sir Cha'oner, with the rest of the fleet, sailed along the coast of Jamaica, from whence a pilot came on board, and on Friday the 9th, conducted them safely into the harbour of Port Royal, where they found admiral Vernon with his squadron, and the regiment of North Americans were by this time arrived, and quartered .ashore while measures were taking for embarking this corps, and supplying the hips with proper tenements, provision, and other necessaries, a council of war was held at governor Trelawney's house in Spanish Town, in which it was resolved that the whole fleet should beat up to windward, and observe the motions of the French squadron, commanded by the marquis danton, then lying 4 in
in-the harbour of Port Louis, in the island of His. paniola.,A:cordingly, a body of negroes, raised by the governor, being put on board, the fleet sailed from Port RoyAl harbour in three divisions, the first of which, under the command cf Sir Cha!oner Ogle, weighed on the 22d day of January; the second commanded by commodore Wedlock, sailed on the 26th; and admiral Vernon, with the third division, took his departure on the 3lft, when the three squadrons joining, plyed to windward, and on the 7th of February, m de Cape Siberian, where he was joined by the Wolf sloop, which he had previously detached for intelligence. Captain Partridge the commander of this vessel, gave-him to understand, that he had looked into Port Louis, and seen nine. teen. hips of war, one of which carried a flag at the main-topmast head ,In consequence of this information, the fleet steered for the isle of Vache, and coming to anchor, about two leagues to the westward of Port Louis, on the zth, captain Laws of the Spence loop was fest to reconnoitre the harbour, and pretty nearly - confirmed the report of Dandridge.,Next day, admiral Vernon, accompanied by ge neral Wentworth, went in a barge, and founded the depth of water between the isle of Vache and Hispaniola; and on the 4th, Mr. Wentworth re reconnoitred in person, from the Spence sloop, which had no sooner opened the harbour of Port Louis, than he plainly perceived that all the hips were merchantmen, mostly unrigged, except one frigate cf forty guns; and that the supposed flag was no other than the white gable end of an house, in a line with the main-topmast of this vessel. As a French. officer had come off with a menage from the governor on the 4th, and was not admitted to ;e admira!, Mr. Vernon now sent captains Bof-,cawen
caen and Knowles to make an apology for having declined seeing that gentleman; to know what his proposals were, and to ask leave to wood and water in the bay. :They returned with a polite answer, and brought an account of the marquis danton's hav ing failed for Europe on the 26th day of January; a circumstance which was confirmed by the arrival of captain Rental in the Experiment, who had been cruising some time off Hispaniola. February the 16th, it was resolved, in a general council of war, that the fleet should, with all expedition, wood and' water in Iron, Siberian, and Donna Maria bays, and thence proceed directly to Carthiagena.,During the seven days which were thus employ ed, detachments from the American regiment and the negroes were daily went ashore to cut fascines and pickets and the Weymouth, Experiment, and Spence sloop, under the command of captain Knowles, de tacked beforehand to found Punta Canoabay, about two leagues to the windward of Carthagena.,February the 26th, the whole fleet was under fall, to the number of one hundred and twenty-four, and in the evening of Wednesday, March the 4th, an choked in Playa Grande, between the town of Car thagena and Point Canon; the (mall frigates and firelhips were ordered to lie in a line along the fliose, as if the design had been to carry on the operations. to the windward of the town; and this feint had such an effet upon the enemy, that they drew their forces from the remoter parts; and began to intrench themselves where they seemed mostly threatened by the danger. The Dunkirk, Experiment, and Spence sloop, were'immediately dispatched to leeward to found the'coaft of Tierra Bomba, as far as Boca Chica, or entrance into the harbour, which was pitched upon as the first scene of action. March the 5th, a council of war was held to settle the,P 5 difri.
distribution of plunder, according to his majesty's intrusions. Next day, the general went on board of the Lion to reconnoitre the shore and forts on Tierra Bomba, when the swell was so great, that she rolled away her main-mast, and was in the ut most danger of perishing. A disposition was im mediately formed for landing the troops, and in the morning of the 9th, Sir Chaloner Ogle proceeded, with his division, to troy the small forts of St. Sago and St. Philip, which might otherwise have annoyed the troops in landing, and hindered the fleet from anchoring near the hore.,This piece of service was very effectually per formed by the Norfolk, captain Graves, the Russel capta n Norris, and the Shrewsbury, captain Townshend; for, after a brisk cannonading, the ,enemy were before the evening compelled to abandon the forts: nor was this success attained with out some loss; for, the Shrewsbury's cable being rut by a hot, he fell to leeward before they could let go another anchor, and being exposed to the fire of Boca-Chica, and a facing-battery, she re civet considerable damage in her hull and rigging, besides the loss of sixty men killed or wounded; whereas her two consorts did not lose above ten.,All obstruction being thus removed, lieutenant colonel Cochrane landed with the grenadiers that same evening, and took possession of the forts: the bomb-ketches began to play upon the castle of Boca Chica; and next morning the grenadiers were form ed on the beach, to cover the landing of the rest of the army, which was effected without opposition ; though the troops were obliged to lie that night upon their arms.,On the th, the negroes, tools, and tents, be ing put ashore, the ground was cleared, the tents where pitched, and the troops put under cover from,the 3
the night-dews, which are very dangerous in' that climate. A couple was made through the woods, to cut off the communication between the city and forts at the harbour's mouth, and another opening towards the' sort of Boca.Chica, which they intend ed to batter in breach from a fascines-battery, raised. under the digressions of Mr. Moor, the principal en ginger, a man of capacity and experience. He, at the same time, planned out a mortar battery, de fended from the enemy's fire by casks filled with sAnd, which began to play upon the castle on the 13th, in conjunction with the bomb-ketches.,As for the great-gun battery, it could not be finished with such expedition; for, the workmen; were not only galled by the shot of the enemy, who fired with great vigour, but so relaxed by the heads the climate, that they could not bear much fa tigre ; and the negroes, upon whore labour there was great dependance, were intimidated by the fire from Boca Chica, thatched threw down their burthens, and fled at the report of every gun.,For, these reasons the engineer represented to the council of war, that the work could not be carried on in a proper manner, without a reinforcement of: one thousand six hundred men added to the troops already landed; and as there was a number of fol tiers still on board of the fleet, the general demand ed this supply; which the admiral refused, on the supposition that such a reinforcement could not be necessary march the i7th, when the parapet of the bat tery was raised almost up to the embrasures,. the land-officers, in a council of war, agreed to sollicit the assistance of the admiral in destroying fascine battery on the other side of the harbour, .called.the.- Barradera, from which they had receivedconfider- able damage and interruption ; and in compliance i.th this request, a detachment of three hundredth 6 sailors,.
sailors, supported by a body-of the soldiers that fill remained on board-of the fleet, were conveyed thither at night in boats, under the command of cap. pains Bofcawen, Watson, Coats, Washington, Mr. Murray, and lieutenant Forrest, who attacked the battery with great valour, repulsed the enemy, and spiked up the cannon.,On the seth, an parlement was raised on the left of the great-gun battery, to cover it from the fire of the enemy's hips of war, which were moor. ed between the sorts of Boca-Chica and St. Jo sept, so as entirely to block up the entrance of the harbour; and that same day, the enemy were per civet at work, in repairing the Barradera battery, which having been imperfectly demolished, was loon in a condition to renew its fire, and annoy our troops; so that the admiral ordered a sixty gun flip to beat it down; but her efforts had little effet march the 22d, the battery being finished, be gan early in the morning to play upon the sort of Boca-Chica *, with four and twenty great guns, and forty small mortars and cohorts, that fired al ternately with good effect and the enemy returned the fire with great vigour from the castle, the fa fine battery on the Barradera side, and their flip pino.,Next- day, commodore Leftock, who lay with his squadron, to the windward of the whole fleet, hoisted a broad red pendant, and weighed anchor in,* The enemy having neglected to clear away the void in the neighbourhood of Boca-Chica, the English engineer took advantage of the onion, to screen the ;o.kmen iso wer. employed in raising the battery; for, as the Spaniards d d Int see them, they could not propirlyrdi.rect their fire; and the battery being finished t'.e' tres were imTe:;iatey knocked down ;. so that it iw fe to he view, like the efcts of magic ,the
the Boyne, and with the Princess Amelia, the Prince Frederic, Hampton-court, Suffolk, and Tilbury, went in to cannonade the sorts of Boca-Chica, St. Joseph, the Spanish men of war, and th-Barradera battery. As the commodore sailed along the whole line of the fleet, all the ships were manned to do him honour; every vessel saluted-him with three cheers' as he passed, and all the music played Britons strike Home. This squadron having run in as near the forts as possible, each ship clapped a spring on her cable, and a terrible cannonading ensued; as the reader may easily conceive, when he is informed, that above five hundred great guns, besides a great number of bombs and cohorts, were incessantly plyed during the best part of the day. In the,even- ing they were called off, after having sustained con miserable loss, and next morning renewed their fire with fresh alacrity; though their hot did very little execution among the enemy, and had no effect at all on the face of the western bastion, which-was battered in breach from the land-battery. In this engagement, lord Aubrey Beauclerk, who command ed the Prince Frederic, lost his life, and was uni verbally regretted : and Mr. Moor the chief engineer was killed shore on the battery, to the great prejudice of the expedition. In the evening, an other detachment of sailors and soldiers, command ed by captain Watson, was transported in boats to the Barradera shore, and burned the battery without opposition, together with a sloop which lay on the other side of a neck of land, and supplied it with necessaries and ammunition mean while the Englifi battery fired night and day, without intermission, till the 25th, when the breach being reported practicable by an engineer, who had been sent to reconnoitre, it was resolved, in a council of war, to make the attack that fame,evening;
evening : a disposition was instantly made and cor mutilated to the admiral, who, in order to mak a favourable diversion, agreed to send his boats wel manned and armed, under the command of cap tain Knowles, to make an attempt upon Fort St Joseph, and the Spanifh ships, while the land-force should be employed in storming the breach' of Boca. Chica. These precautions being taken, the troop! advanced to the assault about five in the afternoon, A serjeant and twelve grenadiers, accompanied by thirty voluntiers, composed the forlorn hope; these were followed by two hundred and sixty grenadiers, commanded by lieutenant colonel Macleod; then came colonel Daniel, at the head of five hundred men, and fume small parties, carrying scaling lad. ders, pick-axes, &c. to be used if necessity hould require. They again were sustained by five hun died men, under the command of lieutenant-colonel Cochrane; and Mlr. B!akeney, brigadier of-theday, had the direction of the attack three bombs fired from the battery, gave the signal for putting-them in motion; upon which a volley of round shot was poured in upon the breach, and this succeeded by another of grape-lor, which obliged the sentinels upon the walls to put them selves under cover, and contributed to their not perceiving the troops when they first moved to the attack. But, before they reached the foot of the walls, they heard the Spanish drums beating to arms; the top of the breach was manned, and the enemy's ships, and Fort St. Joseph began to fire with grape shot upon the assailants, though with very little es fed: but, the commandant Don Bias, being on board of one of the ships,. the garrison were frucsk with a panic, and fled with precipitation out-of the gate as soon as the grenadiers began to mount the breach.,Immediately
Immediately after the troops had taken possession of the fort, the Africa and San Carlos, two of the Spanish men of war, were sunk by the enemy, the San Philip being set on fire, either by the red-hot balls frown the land-battery, or by the Spaniards, which continued burning until the fire reached the magazine, and then blew up with a vail explosion during these transactions, the armed boats from the fleet, commanded by captain Knowles, rowed to the Barradera side, while the soldiers and sailors landing, attempted to surprize Fort St. Joseph; but being discovered, they found themselves so niuch exposed to the artillery of:that fortification, that they were fain to retire under cover of the busies, until it was evacuated by te enemy, who foresaw it would be impossible to maintain this post after Boca-Chica was taken. In the mean time, the ad moral went orders to his detachment to attack it in their boats, and they accordingly entered it without opposition: then they boarded the Galicia, com handed by Don Alas, in which they found two officers and sixty men, who had not time to make their escape; and lastly demolished a strong boom fixed across the harbour's mouth, the end of which had been already cut down by a party of the land forces, under the command of Mr. Blame, an'en- ginger, and lieutenant Bennet, who was the first man that entered the breach. By this time, the English had made themselves masters of all the forts and defences at the harbour of Boca-Chica, in which the enemy placed their chief confidence; and indeed we mus own the success of this after noon and evening were altogether extraordinary, if we consider the situation of the harbour's mouth, and the manner in which it had been fortified this place takes its name of Boca-Chica or Narrow Mouth, from the narrowness of the channel,,and
and lies-in such a manner upon the coals, that the trade-wind blowing from the east, never affords a favourable breeze which would enable a squadron of ships of war to enter by main force. At one side cf this narrow channel, close to the shore, the Spaniards had ereaed the sort of Boca-Chica, which was a regular quadrangle, with four bastions, and mounted with eighty-four great guns, besides a very large mortar and cohorts: on the other side flood Fort San Joseph, in a frnall island detached bya narrow gut from the continent of the Barradera, mounting thirty-fix cannon, mostly level with the surface of the water; between these two castles was fixed a very firing boom, consisting of cables, chains, and beams of wood, stretched across the harbour's mouth, and within this, four 'ships of war, mounting sixty-four guns each, were moored in a line to defend the passage; over and above these fortifications, we have already mentioned the fa fine-battery on the Barradera lore, which greatly galled the English in their approaches, and the small forts of San Philip and San Sago, which the ships demolished before the troops could be landed immediately after the reduction of Boca Chica, measures were taken for remarking the troops, artillery, and flores; commodore Lettuce was ap pointed to remain with his squadron at the har your's mouth, and the rest of the feet entered the outward harbour, as so(.n as the channel could be cleared of the wrecks sunk thereon Friday the 27th, the Griffin and Orford were ordered to advance, and post themselves across the mouth o the inner harbour called Surgidero; while the Weymouth and Cruiser sloop were detached to the other side of the harbour, to demolish two small batteries on each side of the Pffo-.Cavallos or Horse-Ferry, a creek through which provisions,wee
were conveyed: into the Laguna, and from thence to the city. This piece of service was performed without opposition, under the direction of captain. Knowles, who at the same time took some hulks and finally craft that were serviceable in watering the fleet, at a very convenient wharf which they found by the side of an excellent spring this was a very welcome discovery to the people on board of the fleet, who had been hitherto reprinted to a very scanty allowance of this element, name ly, a purser's quart (about three half-pints) per diem to every individual: in a climate where there is such a continual expence ofjthe animal fluid, that as many gallons might have been necessary to re. pair the waste of four and twenty hours, in a hard working man, sweating under the fun, which was vertical, and fed with putrid beef, rusty pork, an bread swarming-with maggots. Nor could this re? firiifon be owing to the fears of scarcity ; for over and above all the water-casks which. were fille dat. Hispaniola, there was not an old empty pipe, pun cleon, pork-tub, or beef-barrel that was. not con versed to this use; and in some ships, so little pains had been taken to cleanse there vessels, that the wa ter was corrupted and slunk so abominably, that a man was fain to flop his nose with one hand, while with the other, he conveyed the can to his head nay, if every cask of water had-been started over board, it is we I known that it might have been ea fly uppied by an expedient which is often practised, and was actually adopted by the troops on (lore; I mean that of finking half-tubs bored, in the beach? which are filled with potable water, strained through the pores of the sandwich refpeA to the allowance of brandy, granted to every individual, the admiral, in his great saga-city,
city, ordered it to be mixed in a proportion of the water, without sweetening or fouring,'fo as tocom. pose a moll unpalatable drench, which no man could swallow without reluctance march the roth, at a general council of war held on board of the admiral's hip, it was resolved that the soldiers, artillery, and stores hould be landed with all expedition, at a place called La. Quintaa, on the land-side of Cartagena, within the Surge. hero, or inner mouth of the anchoring-place, which was defended by Called Grande, a firing castle, on one side, and a small frt called Manzanillo, onthe other, between which the .enemy had sunk seven galleons and two large men of war, in order block up the channel: at the same time, it was agreed that the army on fore (hould be reinforced by those detachments of the regiments which fill remained on board of the ships of war.,The intention of this second landing, was to cut off all communication between the town and count. try, and besiege the fort of-Lazar, which flood on the top of a hill, and commanded-the city of Car, thagena. Nor was it doubted that te admiral would co operate with the army, by sending some of his largest hips to batter the townsmen while, captain Knowles was ordered' t bring his guns to bear upon Cassel Grande which, as m ell s the fort on the opposite side, was abandoned so that he took immediate possession, and was appointed governor of the castle, which mount ed sixty-four pieces of cannon. During these trans. actions, captain Fenton of the Experiment, having reconnoitred the channel in which the galleons and men of war had been sunk, found the stern of the Conquifiador still afloat; so that they found means to heave it round, and open a passage into the Sur cicero for two bomb-vessels, which being covered,by
by as many twenty gun ships, began to play upon the town, though they were moored at too great a distance to do much execution: nevertheless, some shells took place, and even set some houses on fire, and the enemy seemed now to be in despair; for, they themselves burned a French hip of war lying at anchor near the walls of the town, which they could never imagine would fall into the hands of the English, unless they had thought themselves on the eve of surrendering the city the admiral and his squadron having come to anchor near Castel Grande, no time was lost in pursuing the design of the second landing at La Quintaa: the transports with the troops, flores, and artillery, sailed up the harbour from Boca-Chica, and a disposition being made for disembarking, on the morning of the 5th, the Weymouth, the Crus-ser sloop, and two or three fire-ships, which had passed through the channel, were ordered to fire with grape shot all the preceding night, in order to scour the woods and ore adjoining to the'landirg-place.",April the 5th, the first division of the soldiers, amounting to one thousand four hundred men, commanded by brigadier Blackened, rendezvoused along-side of the Weymouth; at five in the morn ing, colonel Grant at the head of the grenadiers, landed without opposition, and being followed by the rest. formed the whole in order of battle, to march against the enemy; These being joined by two hundred Americans as pioneers, the negroes, and a party of matroflec, with eight parterres, began to move forwards into the wood, and hav ing reached the end of the defile, with the loss of one man killed by the fire of a straggling party, they perceived the Spaniards, to the number of seven hundred, drawn up on the strand, in such a manner as to cover the road leading to the city.,There
There they flood with a'good countenance, seem singly determined to dispute the ground, from which the general ordered the grenadiers to cil lodge them; but, as they were obliged-to marc through a narrow pass, bounded on the left by th lagoon, and on the right by a thick copse, a par. ty of American soldiers were detached tito this last in order to fall upon the rear-of any small parties which might have been poled among the bullies, to flank the English as they advanced ,The grenadiers marched up with great alacrity and very little loss, notwithstanding two fires from the enemy; then the front platoon poured in their fire at the distance of half a musket-shot, and im. mediately wheeled to right and left as in fircet sir. ing, to make room for the next to advance; a cir. cumfiance from which the Spaniards supposing the whole body gave way, they expressed their joy in a loud huzza: but, they were soon convinced of their mistake, by the close fire of the follow ing platoons; in consequence of which, they soon fell into confusion, and fled towards the-city, whither it was not thought proper to pursue them, be cause this party was justly supposed to be no other than a decoy, to draw the English into an ambuscade or within cannon-blot of the town and Fort Lazaro.,The proper guards being polled, and the troops put undergone in one houses and Sheds adjoining to La Quintaa, a party was detached to take possession of a convent situated on the top of a hill, called la Pope, where they found some prisoner, and left an officer's guard; from hence the gene rat, accompanied by brigadier Guise, next day re reconnoitred the city, and it was debated in a council of war, whether or not the fort should be at tacked the following night, before the enemy oeuld,hase
have finished fonte works upon the hill, on which they were seen employed with great diligence: but this attempt was postponed because rio ores were as yet landed from the ordnance hips. ' hat ve-ry evening, however, five pieces of cannon, with powder and ball, were put on shore, alit a number of Americans and negroes being landed, with working tools, they began to dear the ground for ash ens comment; though in the mean time 'the Europe-i ans suffered severely from the excessive heat j I that the work was greatly retarded-april 7th, the council of war being assembled, the report of the principal 'engineer considered, and the intelligence given by deserters taken into consideration, the members were unanimously of opinion, that the fort-ought not to be attempted without having first raised a battery, the scheme of which the engineer was ordered 'to lay before the council with all possible expedition. Mean while this resolution was immediately communicated to the admiral, together with the opinion of the mem boers, importing that the success of such an enter prize would be much facilitated by the admiral's giving directions to the bomb.ketches to play upon fort San Lazaroooo, which might also be battered by one of the large ships of war, at that time lying al together inaftive.',The admiral treated the design of a battery with great contempt, alledging that cannon were not at all necessary for the taking of such a paultry sort, which would certainly be abandoned as soon as the English hould appear in earnest to ive the assault; but with refpeq-to the bombarded and battering San Lazaroooo, he sent no determinate an fwer.,It is a melancholy truth, which, however, ought to be told, that a low, ridiculous, and per-vicious 5
vicious jealousy subsisted between the land ane sea-officers during this whole expedition; and thai the chiefs of those were so weak or wicked as te take all opportunities of thwarting and manifest. ing their contempt for each other, at a time when the lives of so many brave fellow-subjects were al flake, and when the interest. and honour of their country required the utmost zeal and unanimity. Instead of conferring personally, and co-opera. ing with vigour and cordiality, they began to hold separate councils, draw up acrimonious re. insurances, and send irritating messages to each other; and while each of them piqued himself upon doing barely as much as would screen him from the censure of a court-martial, neither seem ed displeased at the neglect of his colleague; but, on the contrary, both were in appearance glad of the miscarriage of the expedition, in hope of seeing one another stigmatized with infamy and disgrace. In a word, the admiral was a man o weak understanding, firing prejudices, boundless arrogance, and over-boiling passions; and the ge neral, though he had one parts, was wholly de festive in point of experience, confidence, and re solution the Spaniards, judging from the spirit, with which the attack had been hitherto carried on, that they could not be too alert in making preparations for the reception of such an enterprising enemy, em played all their endeavours and attention in strength ending the defences of San Lazaroo, by mounting an extraordinary number of cannon upon the walls, and making new works upon the hill, in order to retard the operations of the siege: at the same time they; brought Come pieces of artillery to bear upon the English advanced-guard, and the general's
neral's quarters, which, however, received little damage.,By this time the rainy season had begun with such violence, that it was hardly practicable to keep the field, for it poured down in a deluge incessantly, from the rising to the setting of the fun; and then the lightning began to play in such continued flashing that one might have read a small print all night long by the illumination. Such a change of the at sphere is always attended with an epidemical distemper in consequence of which the men dropped down so fast, that there was scarce a sufficiency to relieve the proper guards of the camp, much less to cut down the wood and raise a battery, so as to at tack San Lazaroo in form.,On thefeconfiderations it was resolved, in a council of war, to make an attempt for surprizing the fort; and scaling-ladders, and other implements for this purpose were provided accordingly. A strange resolution ! which seems to have been the result of a report made by some engineers, who having re reconnoitred the place, affirmed that the walls were not high, nor secured by any ditch on the other side; but, that there was an ample road, of an easy ascent, leading up the hill, and a wooden door on the left, which might be forced without much difficulty Though this representation, backed by a deserter, who offered himself as a guide, might have had some weight with the general, his chief incite ment to hazard the lives of so many brave Britons, in the execution of such a hath enterprize, seems to have been the importunity otf the admiral, who, in repeated letters, and taunting messages, vehemently pressed him to the attack, saying, that it was scarce possible to miscarry. In all likelihood Mr. Went worth was afraid it would be alledged, and possibly credited, at home, that the city must have been re duce had this experiment been tried.,Instead
:Instead of sacrificing his own understanding, and his gallant soldiers, to Such an idle punctilio or fufpi. cion, he ought to have acted up to the dictates of his own judgment, and proposed in his turn, that, as the land-army could not proceed in their operations with any prospect of success, the admiral should at. tack the town with his great hips, which lay inc. time, though the men longed for such an opportunity to signalize their courage. A report indeed was industriously circulated, that there was not water sufficient for the ships to lie near enough to batter in breach; and that the admiral was laudably averse to hazard his majesty's (hips upon an uncertainty, But it now plainly appears, from the attestations the best pilots, and the soundings of the harbour, specified in the-prefixed authentic charte, that four or five of the eighty gun ships might have been moored in a line close by the walls of Carthagenene; and if this expedient had been praised, in all pro ability the town would have surrendered immediately; for it is well known that the inhabitants ex pealed no other fate, and had by this time went their 'wives and children, together with their molt valu. able effect, into the country. With respect to Mr, Vernon's being averse to risque his majesty's hips upon an uncertainty, I hall only observe, that this maxim, since adopted by other commanders, sa very ill-judged and suspicious tenderness; inasmuch as his majesty's hips were made for service, and that they can hardly ever a at all, if they do not engage upon some sort of uncertainty. But to re turn to the land-forces.,A disposition being made for the attack of San Lazaroo, and the necessary implements prepared; on the 8th of April, the troops appointed for this service were ordered to parade at two next morning on the strand, where being formed, they advanced towards the fort, and a little before day-break, began to,mount
mount the hill, the grenadiers being commanded by colonel Grant, tho' brigadier Guise had the com and of the attack. The division which wag or tered to take the open accessible road upon the right of the fort, was, in the dark, by the mistake of the guide, conduced to the center, where the ascent is very steep, and the ground broken; yet, not withstanding these obstructions, a number of the soldiers gained the top, and pushed on to the ene mies entrenchments, where the greatest part of them was slaughtered, because they could not be immediately sustained by the rest of the platoons, which advanced but flowvy'with street-firing, on ac count of the unevenness .of the ground. Colonel Grant mounted on the left with great gallantry, but received a mortal wound before any advantage could be taken of his success: at the same time the guide was killed, and the men dropped very fall; so that the officer next in command made no further pro griefs, but remained on the side of the hill, exposed to a severe fire from the castle and the town, which did great execution. Nor could the scaling-ladders, wool-packs, or hand-grenades be of any service inthis emergency; for the Americans who carried them in the rear, seeing the troops falling by whole platoons, refused to advance with their burthens; but tho' they would not advance as pioneers, many of them took up the firelock which they found on the field, and mixing among the troops, behaved very bravely.,It must be owned, for the honour of the army in general, that no officers or soldiers could-act with more courage, alacrity, and perseverance, than that which was manifested on this unhappy occasion, al tho' very few of them had ever seen the face of an enemy before this tri alas soon as day-light enabled the general. to view the posture of the troops, he went to inform briggs VOL, V. . tier
tier Guise, that if he could push forward he'fhould be sustained by five hundred men, who were or tered to advance accordingly; but by this time the soldiers were disheartened, and the number of the enemy was every instant encreased by reinforcements of fresh men from the city, until they equalled, if not exceeded, the assailants, for whom they waited on the hill without flinching-It was therefore found necessary to effect a re. treat, which 'was secured by means of those five hundred men who brought up the rear; but not before the loss of the English amounted to two hundred killed, and twice that number wounded, of which last the majority did not recover. Six teen of these were taken prisoners by the Spaniards, who treated them with great humanity, and loudly extolled the valour of-the assailants; and a cessation of arms was immediately agreed upon for a few hours, during which time the dead were buried. Mean while a breaft-workwas raised at the advanced guard, to put the men under cover, and the in frenchmen enlarged for the reception of two mor tars, which in two days began to fire upon San La. taro with good effect.,As for the tick and wounded, they were next day sent on board of the transports and vessels called hospitalities, where they languished in want of every necessary comfort and accommodation. They were destitute of surgeons, nurses, cooks, and pro per provision; they were pent up between decks in mali vessels, where they had not room to sit up right; they wallowed in fill ; myriads of ma. got were hatched in the putrefaction of their sores, which had no other dressing than that of being baffled bv themselves v.itlh tis own allowance of brandy; and nothing was heard but groans, la meditations, and the language of despair invoking death to deliver them from their miseries. What,)- served
served to encourage this despondence, was the pro spec: of those poor wretches who had strengthen opportunity to look around them; for there they beheld the naked bodies of their fellow-soldiers and' comrades floating up and down the harbour, afford ing prey to the carrion crows and sharks, which tore them in pieces without interruption, and contributing by their french to the mortality that prevailed this picture cannot fail to' be (hocking to the' humane reader, especially when. he is informed that while those miserable object cried in vain for affiance and actually perished for want of proper attendance; every hip. of war in the fleet could have spared a couple of surgeons for their relief; and many young gentlemen of that profession solicited their captains in vain for leave to go and administer help to the sick and wounded'. The necessities of the poor people were well known ; the remedy was. easy and apparent; but the discord between the chiefs was inflamed, to such a degree of diabolical rancour, that the one chose rather to see his men perish than ak help of the other, who disdained to offer his assistance unasked, though it might have' five the lives of his fellow subjects had the admiral, when the troops moved.to the attack of San Lazaroo, sent in a few hips against the town, to make a diversion in their favour, the enemy would have been disgraced, and their fire so divided that neither the land-forces nor the men of war could have suffered much damage, and in all probability the city would have been surrendered at discretion. Or even without this diversion, had the soldiers been joined by a body of tailors, when they marched to the adult, the attempt nightshade: succeeded; for while the troops, by regular discharges could have cleared the parapet of the enemy, the sailors being more accustomed to climb ing and boarding, might have applied: the ladders,,Q2- scaled
scaled the walls, and forced the gate, so as to afford admission to the soldiers the sickness still increasing among the troops, and the admiral declining to land a reinforcement for supplying the loss by which the army was dii. wished; it was resolved, in a council of war, to de. fire the admiral to give directions for re-embarking the cannon, since his silence with regard to the demanded reinforcement seemed to imply a denial.,Some acrimonious messages having passed be. tween the chiefs on this subject, the land officers demanded a general council of war, which was ac. accordingly held on board the admiral's own hip on the 4th day of April, when, after the conditions the army, and the posture of affairs, were taken into consideration, it was agreed, that. as the troops were greatly diminished, weakened and fatigue, and as their supplies of water were almotheitiauffeit the siege of such a firing place as Carthagenene could not be attempted with any probability of success; and therefore the artillery and forces should be ri embarked with all convenient expeditions disposition was immediately formed for a re. treat; and next day the cannon, flores-and heavy baggage were put on board. Mean while captain Knowles began to throw Shells at fort St. Lazaroo from two small mortars, in a battery which he had judiciously raised on the lore under cover of his flip, at the distance of two thousand six hundred yards from the castle, notwithstanding the remonstrances of colonel Lewis of the train, who gave hin to understand that this was the utmost distance mortar can carry when the chamber is quite filled with powder; an expedient never practised but upon proof. But the captain piqued himself upon being an able engineer, and in the confidence of lis own capacity expended a good number of Bells to the amusement of the enemy.,April
April the i6th, the Galicia, one of the Spanish (hips of war, taken at Bocachica, having been by the admiral's directions fitted up as a floating bat tery, mounting sixteen guns only, manned detachments from the navy, and commanded by cap tain Hoare, was warped up the harbour before day, and moored at some distance from the town, which (he began to cannonade with great vigour and some. success. After having lain above five hours exposed to the whole fire of Carthagenenenene and fort Lazaroo, the captain was ordered to cut her cables, and let her drive out broadside before the sea breeze; but running a-ground on a shoal, the men and ammunition were removed in boats, and he was set on fire by order of the admiral this very extraordinary experiment of sending in a battery of sixteen guns against the whole fire of Carthagenenenene, seems to have been calculated by Mr. Vernon to hew the impracticability of attacking that city with lips only; but, unfortunately for him, it had a quite different effect: for if that vessel, with sixteen guns, could sustain such a fire for five hours, what might have been expected from five or six large men of war, moored in a line, within point blank hot of the walls ? If the partizans of Vernon insinuate that there is no water for such vessels, they must be referred again to the soundings of the harbour; they must be desired to take notice that the gallons lie in a baron close up to the walls; that the Spaniards have very lately erected a battery of forty large pieces of cannon, for the defence of the town on the side of the harbour; a very un necessary expence if the water is so shoal as to pre vent the approach of large hips; and that Mon sieur de Points, among other large ships, sent in the Sceptre of eighty-four guns to batter the place, which surrendered accordingly. At seven in the evening of that same day on which the Galicia can-,nonaded
loaded the town, the tents were [truck at eight the troops marched from their ground, and embarked in three divisions in the boats prepared for their reception. The general in person brought up-the rear, and perceiving that five tents belonging to the Americans were left standing, and some tools lying on the ground, he ordered them to be fetched off by a serjeant's guard, reinforced with some fas. lors by lieutenant Forrest; so that there was nothing left as a trophy to the enemy, who did not think fit to molest them in the retreat the sickness fill continued to encrease among the troops*, and even infected the sailors to such a degree that they died in great numbers, and universal dejection prevailed. In order therefore to prevent the total ruin of the army and fleet-preparations were made to quit this inhospitable climate. The Spanish forts in the possession of the English were all dismantled and blown up; and the whole fleet being wooded and watered for the voyage, fell down to Bocachica, from whence they set sail for Jamaica.,Thus-ended, in damage and disgrace, the ever memorable expedition to Carthagenene, undertaken with an armament which, if properly conducted, might have not only ruined the Spanish settlements in America, but even reduced the whole West Indies under the dominion of Great Britain. * The distemper which then aged among the English was the bilious fever, attended with such a putrefaction of the juices that the colour of the skin, which at firs is yellow, adapts a sooty hue in the progress of the disease, and the patient generally dies about the third day, with violent atrabilious discharges upward and downwards. Nothing so effectually prevents or correct ts putrefaction, as plenty of sweet water, fiefs provision, and a liberal ute of vegetable acids, such as limes, lemons, oranges, anansS and other fruits natural to the West Indies. Of all these refrclhi tents the people were in the utmost want, though both aryans fleet might have been plentifully supplied by employing some of the transports which lay inactive, to fetch turtle, live stock, and rust fio the neighbouring stands . 2ap i.,END of the FIFTH Vol ME;


A CO M Pencil Mos Authentic and. ENTERTAINING VO Yea G E Indigested in a Chronological Series ,The whole exhibiting A clear View of the CUSTOMS,. MANNERS, RELIGION, GOVERNMENT, COMMERCE, and NATURAL HISTORY of moi Nations,in the K Now WORLD. Illustrated and adorned with a Variety of genuine Charts,,Maps, Plans, Heads, &c. curiously engraved the SECOND EDITION.,VOL. VI. LONDON: Printed for W. Strain ; J. Livingston ; W. JOHNSTON; J.DODSLEY; T.CASLON; T.LOWNDFS; W. Nicol; RICHARDSON and URQU HART; T.,JEFFÂ£RIES; and B. COLLINS at Salifbary.,MDCCLXVI.
A Collections V O Y A G E S. |*Â»***.*Â»Â»*#tÂ«Â«**Â»***$******s** V O Y A G E round the World by Captain WILLIAM DAMPIER.,CHAP. I. Ir. Dampier's birth and education; hrs fil voyages; his being a planter in Jamaica; his cutting logwood in the bay of Campeahy ; be returns to England, settles his private affairs, angles back to Jamaica: makes a voyage wish captain Hobby to the Al'e/kitto hare; joins captain Oxon, goes against Porto-bella, lands on the litmus of Darien with the Buccaneers; they plunder Santa Maria, and attack Panama: Captain Sawkins killed: they fail to Juan Fernando captain Sharp deposed from command; sac tions for and against him: our author and both, r male-contents agree upon crossing the flbhmus to tie uh seas ; get refreshment: they are befriended thai' the means of an Indian wmlan: they arrive at La Sunt's Key; enter on board a French privateer, are joined by eight more Butcan zing vers ls; they,VOL. VI, B anchor
anco.sr off the Pearl seaweeds: the inhabitants d:' scribed: ire of the privateer's men lost in fit of carousal: a good/fory of captain Pain: an account of the booby-bird: the ife of eyes described; and the cocoa-nut : sucking-fish catched: our author ar ices at Jirginia.,R. William Dampier was born in the year 1652, of a good family in So. merfetfhire; but, losing his father when very young, some relations, to whose care he was left, having given him an india ferment education, bound him at the age of seven. teen apprentice to the master of a flip, who sail out of Weymouth in Dorfetfhire: with him hi made a opyage to France, and another to New foundling; in the latter of which he suffered severely from the climate, that, on his return, h retired into the country among his friends, resolving to go to sea no more; but being naturally of wandering disposition, he soon changed his refolu tion, and coming up to London in f670, enter himself as a forecast man on board an East-india flip, bound to Bantam, in which he made a suc ceful voyage.,In the year 1672 he lived private with a brother in Somerfetfhire, and in 1673 he served against Dutch in two engagements on board a king's ship called the Royal Prince, commanded by Sir Edward Sprang, who was killed the same year. Going as towards again into Somerfetfhire, he became ac quaint with collonel Helter, a gentleman, whb having large possessions in Jamaica, persuaded hie to go thither as a planter, which life he quitte after having been engaged in it about a year, to g with one captain Hotel to cut logwood in the ba of Campeachy.,Th
VO1 TI. p~,PL twos PO RTOBELLO.,po B 0~~~ IT -,-wassleCaskil,Graria,I Castle l~Canzome 1 TPi~cra~ cjI.,.i ?0&*1,ORT O B Eadw-izl Jca~ ~~~~~Gvem usJ iÂ·em r -a I . .~~Pkttit:,I~~~~~~~~. "K
This employment he followed very diligently, hough liable to many hardships; and having once und that it was pretty profitable, he embarked in t a second time: it was here he became acquainted with many of the Buccaneers, with whom we find im afterwards engaged; not without being alaric of such connections when he reflected upon them in his later years; and here he first formed certain roses on which he founded the making his for tune, and which brought him back to England in August 1678. Having raised what money he could, and provided himself with proper necessaries, he nee more embarked for Jamaica in the beginning f the year 1679, in the Loyal Merchant of London captain Chapman commander. It was his intention to pursue the business of a logwood cutter in the bay, with the advantages and manner of conducting which trade he was very well acquainted ; but he afterwards changed his resolution and laid out his money in purchasing a small slate in Dorfetfhire, from a man of whose title e was quite certain; however, before his return one, he agreed with one Mr. Hobby, to make voyage to the Mofkitto shore on the continent, ut anchoring off Nigra Bay at the west end of jamaica, all Mr. Hobby's men forsook him, to join he captains Oxon, Sawkins, Sharp, and other privateers who were going upon a lucrative expedition and after three or four days Dampier himself ate one of the same company, knowing very well hat his assistance singly could be of little service to r. Hobby, fin cet hey could not pretend to sail the ip between themselves only. The first expedition of these confederates was gainst Porto-bello, after which they agreed to cross le litmus of Darien to the south seas; for which purpose they landed, on the 5th of April I68o. nearer 2 Golden
Golden Island, one of the Sanballoes, being in number near four hundred, plentifully (locked with provisions, and little nick-knacks to secure the friend. flip of the Indians. After a march of nine days they came up with, and plundered Santa Maria, where not finding the booty they expected, they staid only three days, and then embarked on board of some small craft for the South Seas. April the 23d they were in sight of Panama, and made a fruitless attempt upon Puebla Nova, where captain Sawkins and some others of them lost their lives.,On June the 6th they stood over for the coast of Peru; and having touched at Gorgonia and Plata, in October seized upon Yla. About Christmas they arrived at the island of Juan Fernandez, where the most part of the crew disliking captain Bartholomew Sharp, who had assumed the principal corn. and after the death of Sawkins, displaced him in fa your of captain Watching; but the latter being kill ed, together with twenty-eight of his men in a fruitless attack made upon Arica, a throne town built in the hollow of the elbow of the Peruvian coast, the flip's crew divided into two factions some being for retiring, and others for keeping Sharp out; but the former party prevailing, the latte being in number forty-seven, among whom was Mr. Dampier, determined upon crossing the Isthmus, an undertaking bold and dangerous, and the more so, as they were a sort of commonwealth, not having appointed any one particular person to regulate their march or direct their proceedings; yet they accomplished their journey in twenty-three days with very little loss.,it was about three o'clock in the afternoon o the lft of May that they set forward on this expedition having with them one Spanish and two Mos ditto Indians, the latter of whom are very experts
in striking the sea-cow, and catching various kinds of fill there also carried with them a kettle to cook their provisions, together with a quantity of flour, twenty or thirty pound of chocolate, and some sugar may the 2d, they did not travel much more than six miles, slopping at an Indian plantation on the side of a hill, where they found only women, whose language they did not understand, one of whom refreshed them with a sort of corn-drink. In the evening, however, the men made their appearance, and having regaled our adventurers with fowls, peccary yams, plantains, &c. one of them who spoke broken Spanish agreed for an hatchet, to guide them to an Indian, who being fully master of that language could understand, and consequently give them more plain direction she kept his words but the conference with this intelligent Indian, to whom their guide introduced them about noon the next day, gave them but little consolation: his tone was angry, his answers snap pish, and from his whole behaviour, which was surly and ill-natured, it was plain he wished them no good: however, his wife's friendship being pur chased with a gaudy petticoat, fne f .on put him in to a better humour, and he not only secured them a guide for two days journey, being disabled from conducing them himself by a wound in his foot, but gave them intelligence of a Spanifh guard flip that was sent out with a view to destroy them, and would have persuaded them to slay in his hut all night, because it rained hard; but they proceeded ;n their way, chusing rather to sussex the worse fe verity of the weather, than trust to the clemency of their enemies after a variety of accidents, few of them mate rial in this place, as we gave a succinct account of the Isthmus in our extracts from Wafer, they arriv-,B 3 ed
ed at La Found's Key, and went on board a French privateer commanded by captain Tristan, with whom they sailed for Springer's Key, another o the Sanballoe islands, where they found and joined a fleet of eight more privateers, their force consist ing of six hundred men or upwards, with which they did little or no execution, the commanders being diilrufstul of one another; so that Dampier and his travelling companions agreed to put them selves under the command of captain Wright, whc joined them with a prize that he had taken from the Spaniards, and with whom they took three oi four other prizes that yielded some profit when di. vide among them for they soon after separated and our author went with his share to Virginia,,hilhe he sailed with captain Wright, they touch ed at the Corn Islands, called by some the Pear Islands, and lying in latitude twelve degrees am ten minutes north: here the inhabitants, harassed by the iii-usage of the Buccaneers, generally hide themselves on approach of a sail, for fear of being carried away as sla'vs, or otherwise ill used by theft inhuman vagrants they are of a dark copper colour, low, bus firona-built, with round faces, little black eyes long hair, and eye-brows curling over their eyes. th-v have low foreheads, thick fiat notes, full lips ned short chins. They cut holes in the under-lip! cf their male children, when young, which the) keep from closing with wooden pegs, till they are fourteen c.r fifteen years old, when they wear arts filial beads in them, made of tortoiseshell, ant Meaning over the chin, which they remove whet the-y5 go to rest at night's he ears of both boys and girls are stretched ard widened as much as possible with pegs, ant when they are dilated to a proper extension, the),wCez
wearing them large pieces of rounded smooth woods of the bigness of a crown-piece; so that the eats look like a piece of wood with a lifting of skin round it.,In the infancy of the girls, the mothers swath the small of their legs tight with a cotton cloth, which gives them a full calf, and this stricture they wear to their dying day. Both sexes go naked, ex kept having a cotton cloth wrapped round their waist, and in general, their feet, though they have nothing to keep them from the ground, whence it may be expected that they should be broad and splayed, are nevertheless neat and small captain Wright and h s crew cruised for Come time in eleven degrees and forty minutes of north latitude, off the Isle of Aves, an island not more than four miles long, and at the east end about half a mile broad; on the north side of which there is a good harbour, and some wells dug by the privateers: there is a dangerous riff of rocks about three miles from it, running from east to north, and then trending away to the west; it was here that a stout squadron of French ships, commanded by count D'Eftree, was lost, some time before Mr. Dampier's arrival here, by mistaking his signals.,Some privateers men, who happened to be then ashore upon the place, lived merrily a good while on the wreck, from which they were plentifully supplied with salt pork, beef, wine, brandy, &c, and forty men who went on board one of the wrecks that was well stored with liquor, were in the midst of .their merriment, drinking, tinging, and carousing, carried away to Tea, the after-part of the flip in which they sat breaking short from the rest, and floating off the riff, nor were they ever after heard of.,It was here that captain Pain, having put in to careen with a (hip of six guns, was in danger of,B 4 being
being taken by a Dutch vessel mounting twenty guns, which in the evening anchored within a mile of him, and fired force intimidating guns, intend ing to warp in with the tide, and seize upon him in the morning; in the mean time, his men told him there was a Dutch merchantman, to all ap appearance deeply laden, lying at anchor off the west end of the island, of which ship he made himself napier, by sending his men, under the cover of ;might, to board her in two canoes, an expedition in which they acquitted themselves successfully; for i'1 e p owed a rich prize, and Ime sailed out of the iced with the Dutch colours flying at topmast head, the other lip, to whose care he left his own empty vessel, knowing nothing of the deceit the island of Aves, or of Birds, abounds with P species of birds called boobies, which have a large-wrong bill, and flat feet like a duck; it is so very simple that it will scarcely get cut of your way till ;i is trodden upon: here they build their nests on trees; but in other places where they are seen, the ground is the repository of their young: their flesh is black and sissy ; but the privateers regale upon it. In this island is also found a bird called a man of war, shaped like a kite, and all black, except the neck which is red; it lives on fill, but never lights upon the water, fusing down upon its prey, which it shrikes thro' with its bill, and then mounts aloft with it: he has long wings, and builds his nest on trees if there be any near him, if not, he hatches his young upon the ground here birds are also natural to the Roca Islands, as is the noddy, which is good eating, though not much hearer than our black-bird; and the tropic bird, which is of a size of the pigeon, but round and plump; their feather, a few grey ones in the n.;n e .ccpted, are all white: their bill is short, )fellow, and thick, and they have no tail but single
ingle feather about seven inches long, growing ou of the rump; they are. called tropic-birds, because they are scarcely found any where but between the tropics; they are good food, and often met at sea out of sight of land.,In the most northern of there islands rises a very high, white, rocky hill, on the south side of which is a spring, that scarcely yields more than forty gal sons of water in four hours; this water has an un pleasant mineral table; however, that purges off after a few days keeping. About twenty leagues from the Isle of Aves is the coast of Caraccoes, a continued trap of high hills, intermixed with small vallies, to the extent of twenty leagues and up wards. The soil is for the most part barren, ex kept the valleys, which are covered with, a black or red clay that is indifferently fruitful. Here are found plenty of mais, plantains, hogs, and Indian fowls;. ut the principal commodity is the nut of which. chocolate is made. It is called the cacao; the tree that bears is. bout one foot and an half thick, that grows scarce y more than eight feet high,; the leaf is shaped ike that of the plum-tree, but something larger;. lie branches are large and spreading; and the nuts, which hang irregularly among' the branches by a ough limber stalk, are about the bigness of a man's wo sifts; there are two crops a-year of them, one i Olober,,but the best is in June; the cod is about als an inch thick, neither spongy nor woody, but little, though something harder than the lind of a mon, like which the grain is coarse and unequal : hey are of a dark green colour, which changes to, bright yellow, and apathy ripen becomes a molt beautiful red They ripen gradually,, and are laid in heaps to sweat, when the planters burns the bells with their bands, and take out the nuts which lie in rows likes 5 grains
grains of mais, an hundred perhaps in one cod, and there are the only substance contained in i They are spread on mats to dry, and will keep well, having a very tough skin, and much oil, whereby they are preserved from the salt water, nor do even the bags rotting about them do them any damage the cacao-tree, which springs from the nut, set with the great end downward, bears, in four or five years, without the trouble of being transplanted they are planted in vallies open to the north wind, and Sheltered from the heat, which is very detrimental to them, by rows of plantain interspersed, which is cut down as the cacao acquires strength: the nuts are used as money in the bay of Cam. peachy.,The chief town of the Caraccoes is large and wealthy, being a good way within land; the country which is all savannah, abounds with cattle, and is very populous. The chief place upon the coast is an open town, with a strong fort and bad harbour; it is called La Guise, and has been plundered by the English two or three times, the situation being about five leagues west of Cape Banco, which is the easternmost boundary of the Caracas co-ff.,The air is sweet and healthy, but sometimes sub. jeR to dry winds, which produce scabby lips. 'She Spaniards have scouts upon the hills round about, and their very negroes are furnished with arms to repel an enemy in case of an attack dampier tells us, that in his way to Virginia, they catched several sucking fishes without any baits whatsoever; there are of the shape and bigness of a whiting, with a flatter head; from the head to the middle of the back there extends a gristly adhesive substance, of an oval form, seven or eight inches long, and half an inch high, with which it clings to whatsoever it comes near, just as the snail clings,to
o the wall; they play about the flip's side in fair father, but if it prove stormy, fallen themselves o its bottom, feeding upon the filth and excrements hat are flung over board ; 'and if we consider. how. mall a thing will impede a (hip's sailing, we may reasonably infer, that the Remora of the antients, f the power of which in slopping a flip at sea we have heard so many stories, was no more than a number of these fishes slicking to her bottom, for ten or twelve of them is equal to her being ex extremely foul: they are naturally indolent, and win slow, wherefore they often fasten themselves to the larger fish that swim along, and it is not un common to find the shark when catched, saddled with two or three of them, which cannot, with all his laying, be shook off: they also join themselves to turtle, to old trees, or any thing that drives along. They have no scales, and are very good meat.,lB 6 TC H AP.
CHAP. IT. Damrpi r sails from Virginia with captain Cooke; tbey,make the Salt Sands: a description of a bird call edj flamingo : a fraud put Upon one of thefailrs : the island cf St. Nicholas described; from thence they fall to Imago: the perfidy of captain Bond; roves of ill consequence to captain Cock: the islands cf Brava, Fog, and St. Jago: they come to anchor rear Sierra Leo a; the people very courteous and ci veil: they are encountered by a/lorm : an account cf the rsc-/ffih and snapper; sea-lion and feal: an In 7.an, uLho had been left ahjore by chance on juan FIrnriandz, discovered; his vast ingenuity, and joy at n-,.;:rg 'with his old n:e/inatis: the Indians very find of b-jli'an names: the bravely of captain Paris a;:d five cf his min. A After some slay at Virginia, Mr. Dampier,afalbciated himself with captain Cooke, with whom he had been formerly acquainted, and who nov intended to cruise on the Spaniards in the South Sea.,August 23d i683, they set sail from Achamack, fleering for the Cape de Verd Islands, and in a few days after were overtaken by a very violent storm, which they were past hopes of outliving, as it con tinged with prodigious impetuosity for more than a week; however, they at last made the Island of Salt, so called from the abundance of salt ponds, and great quantities of congealed salt found there in. The soil is barren, without either tree or grass, univ a few mean ifrubs growing near the sea fide there are Come poor goats arousing about the rocks, with a few wild-fowl; among which is the fishing, a relish bird frequenting marshes, whereat
it is not easy to shoot them; they build their nests of mud strapped together into little hillocks rising above the water, and founded in the shallowest parts of ponds. Their eggs, of which they never lay more than two at one time, they cover with their rumps, their legs, which are very long, being in the water; and had not nature made this position easy to them, the weight of their bodies muff have crushed the egg, or smothered the young, which cannot fly till they are full-grown, but they run with such swiftness that it is not easy to catch them; their tongues are esteemed great dainties, but for the rest it is but indifferent food, being lean and black, though well enough tasted: they generally find in a row by a pond's side close together, and as their feathers are much the same colour, at a distance they appear like a brick wall the whole inhabitants of the island were not more than five or six; and the governor, who cut a most dismal figure, being all in rags, came on board with a present of three or four lean goats, in return for which captain Cooke gave him a coat; he also sold us about twenty bushels of salt for some o't cloaths; and having begged a little powder and shot, took his leave extremely well contented: one of his followers pretended to sell to a sailor on board, but unknown to the governor, a piece of ambergrease, which was afterwards found to be counterfeit, and possibly nothing better thane pre marathon of goats dung; this ought to put the pur chasers of ambergrease on their guard, for there is no place wherein it is sold that the venders won't counterfeit this commodity from the island of Salt they failed to St. Nicholas another of the Cape de Verd Islands, twenty two leagues south-west of the former, and anchored on the south side of it; it is a mountainous bas-,8 ren
ren island, surrounded by rocks; about the middle of it are some fruitful vallies, inhabited by Port. guess, who have laid out some good vineyards and plantations that thrive exceedingly well. The in habitants of this island are all of a dark swarthy complexion, and if we may be allowed to judge of their circumstances by their dress, they are not over wealthy; however, the governor and thirty-four gentlemen of his company who visited captain Cooke, made a tolerable appearance, being armed with swords and pistols, and making the captain a present of some gallons of pale thick wine, in taste not unlike Madeira.,Fourteen miles from the sea side is the principal town of this island, containing about one hundred families; betides which number, there are others scattered up and down among the vallies. There are a few asses on the island, and rome poor goats, but very fine ones when compared with those of the Island of Salt.,Having staid here five or six days to scrub our ships bottom, and take in water, for which we were obliged to dig ; we tsood over to the island of M.Iayo, another of the Cape de Herds, where we intended to have purchased provision, it affording good beeves and goats; but one captain Bond, a Bristol man, who afterwards went over to the Spa niards, having some short time before seized the governor and some other gentlemen, who came on board with an intention to trade, and after being paid the ransom, they had demanded for them, carried them off; the inhabitants would not, on account of this perfidy, permit any of captain Cooke's men to land., At the island of Mayo, there is but bad landing, nevertheless its abundance of salt brings thither much shipping here is plenty of goats, and other horned cattle, and in May, June, July, and August, a frail sea tortoise, yams,,plantains,
Plantains, and potatoes thrive here; and the inhabitants though but poor, live better than in any other of these islands four or five leagues west, lies the island of St. Jago, where most of the European ships outward bound to the East Indies, touch for water; and the inhabitants who are naturally inclined to pilfer ing, in return for handkerchiefs, hats, drawers, or any kind of linen, for they do not hold woolen in much esteem, will exchange bullocks, hogs, goats, eggs, fowls, plantains, and coco-nuts. There are two little islands west of St. Jago, called Brava, and Fog, the latter of which is a large high vol cano, emitting flames of fire, which may be seen at a good distance in the night. The rest of there islands are St. Anthony, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Bona Vite; of which our author mentions nothing remarkable from these islands, captain Cooke steered with the wind at east-north-east, for the freights of Magellan, but at ten degrees north, altered his course, and flood over for the Guinea coast; and in a few days came to anchor at the mouth of the river Scarborough, to the southward of Sierra Leona: on the shore was a thick grove of trees, which hid from view a pretty large town, inhabited by the negroes of the coast, in the midst of which was a great house, wherein strangers were made welcome with palm wine and other refreshments; these people behaved very civilly to the captain and his crew, supplying them with plantains, sugar canes, palm wine, fowls, rice, and honey, at a cheap price. On this coast, there is an English factory, which trades considerably in a red dye, called cam wood from hence they departed about the middle of November 1683, directing their course to the streights of Magellan, and after meeting varieties
of winds, and weather that retarded them extreme. ly, and having touched at the islands of Sebald de WVeert, which are three in number, and quite bar. ren, yielding nothing either serviceable or remark. able, except a dwarf lobster, of a red colour, and the length of a. man's finger,, they made the freights of La Maire, on the ill of February; on the 14th, they were overtaken by a violent storm at west southwest, and south-west and be west, which haled to the 3d of March; on the 19th of which month, they spied a sail, which they hoped to be a Spanish one, and prepared to receive her accord. singly; but it proved to be an English ship com handed by one captain Eaton, bound from London to the South-sea, with whom captain Cooke kept company quite through the Streights; supplying him with bread and bees in return for which Cooke had water, of which he flood in some need.,On the 23d, they came to anchor in twenty-five fathom water, in a bay on the south side of Juan Fernandez, about two cables length from the shore. This island lies in latitude thirty-four degrees for ty five minutes, about one hundred and twenty leagues from the main ;. it is full of high hills, the valleys between which are pleasant and fruitful among the woodlands are large savannahs which yield a thick flourishing grass, and abound with cattle. In the woods are many sorts of timber fit for building, but none proper for masts;, here are found plenty of cabbage trees, the cabbage which they bear is very sweet: and the welt end of the island is all a high cham pain country, with.dry short grass; wanting both wood' and water, and having but one landing place though it is uninhabited, few islands seem more capable of maintaining a colony ; the soil being fruit ful, and the sea abounding with fish; of snappers and rock-fill, more may be catched in two hours,r~~t.'~~~~~ with
with only a line and a hook, than would serve a hundred men. The Snapper has a large head and ills, with a very wide mouth; its back is of a red lour, and the belly silver, its females are as broad a shilling; it is shaped like a rich, which it ex beds in size, and is excellent meat. It is peculiar the South Seas and the West Indies. The rock-fish is. something like the cod, of a dark own colour, with small silver scales; it is good ting, and found in plenty upon the coasts of Peru d Chili. Seals and sea-lions are so plenty all over is island, that there is no stepping ashore without Meeting them. The feal is as large as a calf, with a head like a og, and under its shoulders are two long thick fins, herewith they swim when in the water, and with e assistance of their tail, spring forward when on ind, for they have no other legs; they swim fast, ut are so fugit ashore, that they won't stir out f the way without being beaten, when they growl nd snap; a hard blow on the nose is fatal to them. hey are covered with hair either black, grey, dun, r spotted, and look, when coming out of the wa r, very sleek; they bleat like beep when calling heir young, and never mistake their whelps, let the umber of others be ever so great. The sea lion is twelve or fourteen feet long, the 3pe of it is like a Teal, but six times as large; it as a lion's head, with a broad face, and the whispers of a cat; its eyes are goggle, and its teeth, of which the tailors sometimes make dice, are as large sa man's thumb; about three inches long; they ave no hair, but their skins are of a dun colour, nd being extremely fat, one of them only will icd a hogshead of sweet oil, fit to fry meat; the an leflh is black and course, but not bad food; hey live upon fish, huddle together like swine,,making
making a dismal noise; and if not disturbed, vi remain four or five days, and often longer ahore,,The ships no sooner came abreast of this island than a canoe was dispatched to land with a Molkit and two or three sailors, in search of a Mofkitt Indian, whom captain Within had left here; l was not long concealed, for having the preceding! day discovered an English sail, he had killed thai goats to entertain the crew; and made down fra the woods to meet them there was something affecting in the meeting the two Indians, and the joy of him, who had been si long left here, on account, as he thought, off many of his old friends coming purposely to bring him off, is inexpressible. Some Spaniards who ha: received intelligence of his being on the island, ha often searched for him, but in vain; he found near to soil their utmost diligence. He had built a litll hut for himself, about half a mile from the sea side and lined it with goats skin, of which he had all made his bed, and wrapt a piece round his wait for the little cloaths he had brought from the flip had been for some time worn out. He happens to have with him a knife, a gun, a horn of powder and a little shot, and when his ammunition was ex prided, he made afar of his knife, by notching il with which instrument he divided the barrel of h: gun into small pieces; whereof he made, assiste by a fire kindled with his flint, a lance, fishing hook and harpoons; bending the iron when hot with sone, then grinding it with vast labour, till brought it to an edge, or sawing it with his jagg knife there were contrivances which had occurred him from remembring the workmanship of the En! lit frrriths, nor will those who are in the least a quaint with the ingenuity of the Indians, be fu prised at his industry; for those wild Indians whale
unacquainted with the use of iron, will make one hatchets that serve them in making canoes, building houses, and various other uses; those made y the inhabitants of Sheffield river, are about ten inches long and four broad, and three inches thick n the middle; they are ground down to an edge at both ends; the handle, which is about four feet long, is bound fart with a rope, and fixed in a itch in the middle of a finger's length ; and the natives of Patagonia head their arrows with flints, ate fit for that business with great industry. With he instruments above described, this Indian had subsisted upwards of three years, upon goats, feal, nd other kind of fish. We had given him the name of Will, for these people having no distinguishing denomination of heir own, take it as a great favour if the Europeans bestow one upon them. There are two bays at he east end of this island, with fresh water, safe anchorage, and so conveniently situated, that a mall force might defend them from a powerful at back; as appeared in the case of captain Davis and ve men, whom a large body of Spaniards endeavoured vainly to dispossess; for there people, one excepted, who deserted to the enemy, were after wards brought off by captain Strong of London.,CHAP.
CHAP. IT. Captain Coke sins company with captain Eaton, acquits the ij/lnd rs tan Fernandez: they take prize louni to Lima: they anchor of the islands Lacs de la AMer: they agree to attack the town Truxi;lv; tut alter thei. rseol.!tion, and bear au sr the Gallapags ; these islands described: anno ccuwt c t :te dildo-tree : the various Species of ea-tr tiles dc-fii-ie; the uses cf them : ;heir manner j,/jifli,.g, copulative, and their places of stir mont. They quit ite Gallant os, and arrive C. pipe Banco cn ths coast of Mexico: captain Cc - dies, and succeeded in command by Mr. Edward Davis:. THEY left the island of Juan Fernandez o,the 8th of April I684, in company wil captain Eaton, fleering towards the line, ost high land of Peru and Chili, some part of whic appeared to our author higher than the pike Generis, and they generally kept fifteen or fixtet Statues distant, least they hould have been disc vexed by the Spaniards.,On the 3d of May, captain Eaton took a pri bound from Guiaquil to Lima, and laden with ti ber; and on the Igth, they came to anchor G the isles of Lobos de la Mer, where there is gre plenty of boobies, penguins, and other fowls: the are two small islands, about a mile each in circum terence; to the west of one of which is a fate har your, with a sandy bottom for ships to careen, an here captain Cooke having scrubbed the (hip's bol tom, and examined the prisoners, from whom learned that the Spaniards were every where apprise ed of their being in these seas, consequently wou:,ii.;
ot trust any riches upon the water, without a pro er guard, proposed to his crew, who assented there unanimously, to make a descent upon Truxillo, very populous town about six miles from Guane- ago, where the landing is very indifferent; but hey altered their resolution, on being informed that e inhabitants of Truxillo were evening a strong rt at Guanehagno close to the sea, to repel any attacks of an enemy. This intelligence was received from the crews f three Spanish vessels, which fell into the hands of he captains Cooke and Eaton on the i 8th of May; hey wire bound to Panama with flour, and on hard one of them was found a letter to the pre dent of the said town from the viceroy of Peru, forming him that this supply was sent him on ac out of there being rome enemies in these seas: in his vessel were also seven or eight tons of marmalade f quinces, a very fine mule for the use of the pre dent, and a large wooden image of the Virgin Mary, intended to adorn a new church at Panama; nd she had at first eight hundred thousand pieces of might, but there file had been obliged to unlade at uanchaco, for fear of falling into the hands of the english buccaneers. Ic was determined on the igth, to bear away for the Gallapagos, a cluster of uninhabited islands lIng under and on each side of the equator, of which we came in sight on the 31ft, and anchored at night about a mile from shore, in sixteen fa thon water, on the cast side of the easternmost of there in a white sandy bottom. Our author did not see above fourteen or fifteen of these islands, some of them seven or eight leagues long, and three or four broad; several of them were rocky and barren without any verdure, a little excepted upon the sea coast; in the cavities of the rocks and some ponds,,there
there is indifferent good water; here is found th dildo tree, about ten or twelve feet high, without either branch or leaf, and covered from top to bot tom with rows of sharp prickles; it is a useless pro diction, as thick as a man's leg, but not fit eve for fewel.,Some of these islands lying more to the west Ward, are nine or ten leagues long, and six or fe. even broad, wel! watered with large rivers and plea sant brooks, and yielding several useful vegetables as well as trees fit for many different purports The heats here are not so excessive as in other place under the equator, being cooled by the sea-breeze both day and night; they have no rains during May, June, Jul', and August, which are their summer seasons; but have great plenty of it in No member, December, and January, with frequent violent tempests of thunder and lightning: the sea adjoining to these islands, is well stored with all kinds of fish, particularly shark; and there is no place in the world so well fired with land and sea tortoises; on the former captain Davis and his men, when in one of there islands, subsisted for more than three months; during which time, he saved sixty jars of oil from them, which he used in. stead of butter in his voyage homeward, and found it extremely agreeable they are so tame that you may knock them in the head as fast as you please; they weigh from one hundred and fifty to two hundred pound weight, and measure from two to two feet six inches over the belly. There are three or four sorts of land. tortoises in the West Indies, the chief of which are the hecate and the reopen, the former hav ing long necks, fall legs, and flat feet, weighing from ten to fifteen pounds, the latter being ione thing less as well as rounder. The shells of Tome others are, to ail appearance, beautifully coloured and
d carved: they are good eating, and found in w marshy places, or near the sides of fresh water ends. Of the fea-tortoife there are four different sorts, e trunk-turtle, the loggerhead, the hawks-bill, d the green turtle; the flesh of the trunk-turtle rank and unwholesome: it is larger than any other rt, and has an higher rounder back; nor is the fh of the loggerhead, so called from its great head, such better. The flesh of the hawks-bill causes, if eaten in me places, purging and vomiting, though it is a utter sort of food than any of those before men one ; the shell of it is used in many curious works, the inlay of cabinets, handles of combs, &c. and high from one pound to three pounds and a half; ey are called hawks-bill, from having a long small out, said to resemble the bill of a hawk. They Idol mix with any other kind of turtle, and lay three times in a season, eighty or ninety eggs at a ime, each about as large as a hen's egg, and co red with a white tough skin. This sort of turtle found only in the West Indies and on the Guinea oast; they are never heard of in the East Indies r the south seas. The green turtle derives its name from the co our of its shell, which is finely coloured, and pro piously thin: the flesh of them is very delicious, he sat being yellow, and the lean white. They commonly weigh from two hundred and eighty to three hundred pound; and there was taken some ears since, at Port Ro al in the bay of Campeichy, ne that was four feet diameter from the'belly to the back, and six feet broad: a boy about ten years old 'fed the shell of it as -a boat a quarter of a mile rom flore, and eight gallons of oil were produced room its fat.,Turtles
Turtles of all sorts and sizes are found ambo the keys or small islands on the south side of Cub from whence the markets of two or three places Jamaica are supplied. Turtles are very long-live as well as several years old before they come to the proper growth.,It is said they are nine days in the at of copy nation, during which time nothing is more eat than striking both; for the male, as it were absorb! in enjoyment, never once endeavours to avoid the blow, and if the female, being aware of it, struggles to escape, he grasps her fall with his twe fore-fins, nor can any thing remove him from her back there is a froall but delicious green turtle found in the South Sea, on the west coast of Mexico: it is remarkable that these creatures leave their com mon haunts, and go to a vast distance to lay their eggs. They are two or three months on thisjour. ney, and during it are so very lean that it is though they eat nothing all the time. The most noted places pitched upon by them for this retirement are the Isle of Ascension in the Wefleern'Ocean,and the Isle of Climates in the West Indies, at which places, during this space are found all sorts of turtle; audit is certain they must swim a vail, way, since the nearest land from which they come is from the south keys of Cuba, and there are forty leagues distance from Caimanes.,Though numbers of them go at the particular season, and are followed by multitudes of sharks and other fillies, yet enough remain behind. Our author left the Gallap:gos island on the izth of June, intending to have touched at the Isle of Co. cos, which they overshot; wherefore sanding out to sea, by the beginning of July, they came in view of Cape Blancoo in the Mexican sea.,Two
o or three leagues escape Blancoo, captain Cooke, ho had been ill ever since he left Juan Fernandez, ave up the ghost.; and in a few days after, the ompany'squarter-mafter, Mr. Edward Davis, was anxiously chosen captain in his room. Captain joke had appeared to recover a little a few hours fore he died, a circumstance which is not at all common; and it is usual, in many disorders, for people who have long breathed the sea-air, to drop ashen they taste the land-breezes H AP. IV. captain Come's body carried share to be interred-the sailors, during the interment, seize two spies sri Nicoya.: intelligence of plenty of black cattle; frae men are dispatched up the country, to bring offntme to visual the ships: they are set upon by the Spa niards, who reduce them to great digress, and they are in danger of being drowned, but relieved by.the Ship's crew very timely: theyfleerfor Ria Lexa, a burning mountain: the islands of Mangera and d- manilla described.: captain Davisfails up thegulph [f dmapalla in a canoe: goes affray for want of a piibt; arrows at last at an Indian towns; takes a friar and two boys prisoners; reaches another town; is near contrasting an intimacy with the natives, but his intentions are frustrated by the rashness and im patience of one of his men: the various uses to which the churches in these islands are appropriated: the friar remedies this dirtier: they are lifted by the magistrates, andfupplied with all necessaries. \ BOUT four hours after captain Cooke's,death, the two lips, for captain Eaton was 11 in company, and one of the largest prizes, me to anchor in fourteen fathom water, a league VOL. VI. C from
from the Cape; and the captain's body was order ashore, to be buried under a guard of twelve men: while the grave was digging, three Spanish Indian came down to the shore-side, whom the sailors having cajoled into security, suddenly seized upon; button of them found means to make his escape. The two others were carried on board; and on being exa. mined by captain Eaton, appeared to be spies dis. patched from Nicoya, a small Mulatto town, situ. acted on a river of the same name, about fourteen leagues to the eastward of the Cape; the inhabitant of which place they represented to be hufbandnie rich in nothing but a sort of red dye, corn, and large herds of cattle, which they exchanged for hat linen, woollen, and such European commodity as were necessary to clothe them captain Eaton was well pleased to hear that the was plenty of cattle, the crews of the (hips havoc seen no manner of flesh-meat since they left t Gallapacos; for which reason twenty-four of I men, with one of the Spanish Indians for a pit were dispatched in two beats to bring off lome co from a farm that flood about a league from the fhi,There they haled up their boats upon dry han and followed the guide, who so.'n conducted the to some houses and a penn, situated in a savanna where there was a large number of horned cast that appeared pretty plump. Being weary, ar night coming on. several of the men proposed ret ing here i!S morning, and then proceeding to bus ness ; but this was firmly opposed by Dampier, au force few others: this controversy Was decided tel e men, resolving to return to the flip, amor whom was our author; and twelve men chose' remain till the next day; but they had like to he repented of this temerity: for by break of d' when they prepared to drive what cattle they war md into the penn, they found they were befetd,for
rty or fifty Spaniards, who lay in ambush among he bushes, and Cent several shots among them; on his accident, they united into one body, and re red to their boat, which, to their great confusion, hey found in flames; while the Spaniards, who kept loos, mocked at their distress: in these circum dances they waded to a rock that stood a little' way n the water, where they were pretty Cure they could ot be surrounded': here they remained for seven r eight hours in vast distress, as well as in danger f being swallowed up by the sea, which flowed in pon them fast; when they were relieved by a ca oe, which was dispatched from the flip with ten en in search of them. Here captain Eaton and his consorts having iced upon three good 'canoes which they found in he bay, that were well fitted and pretty finch; nd having also provided themselves with a good quantity of lance-wood, which is Right, tough, nd heavy, to make looms for oars, and scouring gods for guns, and taken in water; they set sail, Jus y the doth, for Ria Lexa, the coast of which, on account of a very remarkable burning mountain hat distinguishes it, may be discerned twenty leagues ft ea; here they intended to have landed, but per living, by some commotions on the there, that hey were discovered, after having rowed a little ay up the harbour in their canoes, and taken. a sant view of the town, they returned on board. The consequence now of a conference between captain Davis and captain Eaton, was, their resolving ro fleer for the gulph of Arnapalla, in which re two islands, the one called Mangera, being high round land, encompassed by rocks, and hav g on the north-east side a small sandy creek; the il is black and stony, producing many lofty trees; ere is one town, with a handsome church, inhabited by Indians: the other, which is the largest,C2 isle
isle of the two, takes its name from the gulph, and has upon it two large towns, about two miles dis. tant from each other; in each of which, there i a goodly church, ornamented with images saints, to all of whom are given Indian complexions and Indian dresses, and this peculiarity may be observed in all the Indian towns under the Spanish juri(dic. tion; whereas, in the towns inhabited by Spans arts, their saints are found to have Spanish com. legions as well as dresses the inhabitants have rome plantations of mail and plantain, but no fowls, except cocks and hens nor beads, but cats and dogs: here grows the hog. plum, a pleasant tasted fruit, with a small stone i it, and when ripe half red, half yellow, but gent rally infected with maggots; the leaf of the tree i of a light green colour, not unlike the hawthorn in shape; there is great plenty of this art of fruit in Jamaica, and the bay of Campeachy; but the isles are the only places in the South Seas in whit our author ever found them. There are sever other islands in this gulph, which is, properly speak ins, a branch of the sea that enters nine or te leagues deep into the country; but there are no of them inhabited. The gulph runs a vast way be yond the island, but is not deep enough to recti (hips of burthen captain Davis entered the gulph with two c noes, in order, if possible, to make a prisoner a gain some intelligence; he came the first night Manger, but for want of a pilot, did not kno where to look for the town; however, as soon it was morning, perceiving a good many cano haled up in a bay, he chose to land there, and ft into a path that soon led him to the town; but;a the inhabitants, except an old friar, to whom thq all paid implicit obedience, retired to the woods the friar, together with two Indian boys that 21,tendse
tended him, being made prisoners by-captain's vis, he brought then down to the fda-fide, and car cried' them with him as guides to the island of Amar- pala ; where being landed, he straight marched to a town -n the top of a hill; the inhabitants of which would have-fled upon his approach, had they not been prevented by the chief magistrate's secretary,; who, though an Indian, could'both read and write Spanifh, but had no great kindness for the Spain arts: this man represented to his countrymen, that if captain Davis was an enemy to the Spaniards, who had deprived them of their liberty, yet neither he nor any of his people would hurt them; for their poverty would protect them: however, as captain Davis and his men came forward, the fe 'secretary and the chief magistrate or cacique advancing before the rest of their people, the former de handed in Spanish, who they were? to which question Davis answered, that they were Bifcayers sent to there seas by the king of Spain, to clear them from enemies, and forced to put into this gulph to careen, and to demand the assistance of some things neccieary from the Indians, whom they intended, as far as they were able, to befriend; after this speech, captain Davis advanced at the head of his men towards the Indians, who came forward, led by the friar, and received them with grammars of esteem; this previous ceremony being ended, they advanced to the church to hold a conference.,It is here to be remarked, that among the Indian towns in general, the church is the place where in all matters of a public nature are translated, nay, in which even their plays and pastimes are perform ed, for which purpose, in there churches are laid utp marks, antic habits, ftrumftrums, hautboys, &c. the firumfirum is an instrument formed out of the half of a gourd, the hollow of which is covered with a thin board, and over this are laid the firings;,C 3 upon
upon the whole, it is not unlike a citterri. Th Indians generally meet to make merry in the church the night before an holyday or festival, and their mirth, which, among those that are in subjection to the Spaniards, seems more constrained and me. melancholy than among those that are free, comfits in dancing, leaping and playing tricks in these mat. querade dresses; here both sexes commix, and un. less it be moon-light, use a great number of torches captain Davis was now upon such good terms with there people, that it seemed impossible things should take a wrong turn; when, entering the church, one of his men, who was a little more hasty than the rest, pushing an Indian, who went before him, as he thought too slowly, in order to make him proceed faster; the poor savage was so frightened, that he sprang out of his rank and ran away with all possible speed; his fright alarmed the rest of his countrymen, who in a moment followed his example; so that captain Davis and the friar had the church to themselves.,To the occasion of this confusion the captain be. ing an entire stranger, he ordered his men to fire upon the runaways, which action quite broke ofi his correspondence with these people; his best friend the secretary being killed by one of the first 'hots.,In the afternoon of the same day, the ships corn ing to anchor off the island of Amapalla, Davis and his men, together with the friar, remarked; and after a conference held upon the present state of affairs, it was determined to send an Indian, whom they detained prisoner, and used very kindly, with a message to the cacique or chief magistrate, as from the friar, entreating him to come on board, the re reverend father pledging his word for his security this resolution was put in practice the ensuing day, and in consequence of it the magistrate, with six of his principal people, came to the flip before,night,
night, where they were received in a very friendly manner, and remaining on board all the time that the (hips lay in the gulph, proved extremely ser viceable, not only in pointing out and piloting them to places where they had plenty of wood, water, and cattle, but in assisting in every thing they could very cordially for which kindness in the end, cap tain Davis presented them with some trifling things, on which they set the highest value, and where with they were fully satisfied at their departure.,C4 CHAP,
CHAP. V. They set the si ;ar afire, leave a prize in the hands the chief magistrates, and quit the g:.'lh: cap. tain Eton forsakes them: the isle f Plata defri. bed: the occasion of its rame: the produces an inhabitants of St. Helena described: several Indian barks burned in their sight along the ecafl : the land at Manta andfeize two old women: an at. count of fame buccaneers upon the isthmus: this cx. pension fruits s: they are joined by captain Swan and captain Harris: the viceroy of Peru makes great preparations against them: they make a descent upon Pcyta; that town burned: the cowardice of the g. vernon of Piara: same account of the commerce these places: fc;vralforts of bark-logs and floats di scribed: an account of the buildings on the coal Peru; the temperature of the climate: the buck. needs supply themselves with word, water, turilt, &c. at Lobos de la Mar and Lobos de la Terra: they resolve to attack Guiaquil. O N the 3d of Oaober, 1684, captain Davis,failed out of the gulph of Amapalla, having isti see the friar ashore, and left the cacique and his attendants in possession of the prize, which wa fill half full of flour. Captain Eaton had parted company with his flip the preceding day, and tho', in lets than three weeks after, he offered again to rejoin captain Davis off the island of Plata, the men belonging to the latter were so unreasonable as to refuse to his people an equal (hare in such prizes as might fall into their hands. There is good grass on the Isle of Plata, with three or four species of small trees covered with moss, the names of which were unknown to our author. It produces,no
o water, except on the ear side, where it drills own a rock, conveniently enough to be received n any vessel let beneath; nor any kind of beast or bird, the booby and man-of-war bird excepted, which are plenty enough: it is said-to have obtain d the name of La Plata, from being the place where ir Francis Drake divided among his men his rich ate-prize called the Cacafuego. They said here but one day, and then steered r Point St. Helena, which is a high, flat, naked piece of land, bearing south from the island of Plata, n twenty degrees and fifteen minutes of south latitude to the leeward of which ships may ride very felt; but there is a deep tumbling sea to the wet ard, and no anchorage, wherein it was said a very rich ship was'loft, some time' before the arrival of captain Davis. There is a village near the shore, inhabited by indians, who've neither grain, plant, nor fruit, except water-melons, which are large and sweet; ey are obliged to bring their fresh water from a ever at four leagues distance, for they have neither ring nor running water of any sort in the neigh ourhood. Close to the high-water mark, there bubbles out of the earth a certain bituminous mat r, which the Indians save in jars, and when boil d, it answers all the uses of pitch. The Indians ve mostly upon mais, of which they get enough om the ships that touch upon the Point: they are 11 fishermen, and venture to sea upon bark-logs r that purpose. Here captain Davis landed some en, who seized a small bark which they had sav d from being burned, the Indians having set it on re, and brought it on board, together with some prisoners, from whom they learned that the vice loy had commanded all seamen to burn their vessels and take to their boats if they should chance to all in the way of .any English buccaneers. 'I hey,C 5 saw
saw two other small barks burned in their sighs which they could not possibly save.,As they could not conceive why the cicero] Should have issued such orders, some men were dis patched from Plata, whither they returned on ths 26th to Manta, an Indian village three leagues we of Cape Lorenzo, to make some prisoners in orde for intelligence; but the inhabitants having perceive. ed them approach, all abandoned the town, ex, kept two decrepid old women, by whom they wert informed that this edit was published, because a report prevailing, that a large body of men wee marching over-land through Darien to the South Seas, where they hoped to seize some sizeable vef fel, having with them only a few canoes and pe. riagoes.,Ahnta is advantageously situated on an ascent, and though it consists of only a few straggling houses, yields a pretty prosper from the sea: il was formerly peopled by Spaniards, and has a poet. ty church, ornamented with very handsome carved work: the soil is dry and randy, producing neither grain nor root, but the inhabitants are served with what they want by the ships from Panama and Li. na, for which they have always a supply of cattle, &c. ready, this being the first settlement at which they touch; and between the town and the sea there is a spring of excellent water. At the back of i, at Come distance up the country, is a high fugsr- loaf hill, called Monte Christ. Opposite the vil-ge, about a mil and a half from the shore, there is a dangerous rock under water, on which the sea does not break, seldom running high thereabouts, whereof ships ought to be very careful. The alarm that was spread over the country of their being on the coast, prevented them from finding any booty in this place, there not being any thing left of the,miallesl
smallest value, nor the leafs kind of provision wherefore they returned on board being as yet undetermined what to do, they were joined on the 2d of Otober by captain Swan, in the Cygnet of London, who had set out upon a trading voyage, but having met with many crosses, and disappointments, and falling into company with captain Harris, at the head of a party of buccaneers who had marched over the isthmus, his men forced him to try his fortune along with them; they were, now three of them together, for captain Harris had the command of a small bark, and they wished for nothing so much as a meeting with captain Eaton, as with such a force they justly imagined, they might be able to undertake an expedition of some con sequence; for this reason the bark was dispatched in quest of him, with a letter, kindly inviting him to share the fortune of these three adventurers, but The had not the good luck to meet him, he having lately quitted-those seas, and, as it was imagined, steered for the East Indies, a design he had long in tended to put in execution. The third day after their joining, the bark took a prize of four hun died tons, bound from Guiaquil to Lima with tim ber, from the people on board of which they learn ed, that the viceroy of Peru was sitting up ten fri gates, to drive them, if possible, out ofthofe seas this news, though it gave them some concern, neither intimidated nor prevented them from mak ing a descent upon Payta, where the next morn ing, being the 3d of Otober, they landed about six o'clock, and having seized upon the town, kept possession of it all day, in hope that the inhabitants would have ransomed it, but that being neglected, they set it in a blaze, after having kept possession of it six days, and retired to their ships. The unit ed captains offered to spare it for three hundred sacks of flour, three thousand pound of sugar, twenty-,C 6 five
five jars of wine, and a. thousand jars of water; at the same time, the bark which captain Harris commanded being judged a bad sailer, was con. denned to be burned, and he had the laR prize in exchange.,Payta is a small sea-port town belonging to the Spaniards, and situated close to the sea, upon a bar. renfandy foundation, in latitude five degrees and fifteen minutes; it confined of about eighty houses, indifferently built, and two churches very large, but no way extraordinary; besides a sort upon the sea, without one great gun to defend it; however, it might have defended the entrance of the bay, of which it had entire command, with muskets only; but the governor of Piara, with an hundred men, whom he had brought down on purpose to defend the place, fled precipitately on the first appearance of the English.,There was another fort on the top of a hill, which commanded the whole town, as well as the lower sort: the water, wherewith the ships that touch at Payta are supplied, is brought from a small fresh water river that runs by a town about two leagues distant, called Colon; and from this place they are also furnished reasonably by the fishermen, with hogs, fowls, plantains, yams, mais, and other ne. necessaries, there being scarcely any thing worth no tieing produced in Payta. The country about it is mountainous and barren, as indeed the country of Peru is in general; but the road for chipping is the best on the coast, there being good anchorage in smooth water, from six to twenty fathom deep, in a fine bay, large enough to shelter a numerous fleet, and well covered from the south-west by a high point of land the nearest town to Payta of any note, is Piara, and that is forty miles defiant, in seven degrees of,nor h
earth latitude, on the banks of a small river that empties itself into the Bay of Chirped, which bay, on account of its shoals, is but little frequented, and most goods intended for Piara are carried by land from Payta.,The Indians of Colon all fish upon bark-logs, which are made of three or four logs of light wood, put together with wooden pins, and bound tight round with withies; the longest of there logs is about seven or eight feet, and they are so disposed that the vessel forms almost an angle at each end, by which mechanism it is more easily adapted to cut through the water there are other sorts of bark-logs contrived for the carriage of goods, the bottoms of which are formed of twenty or thirty great trees, forty feet long perhaps, and a-cross these are placed another flooring of trees; at the ends and sides are drove in great posts, of the height often or twelve feet, and these often serve to support two other floors: in the bottom of all lies their ballast, confiding of stones, jars of fresh water, and such things as can come to no damage from being wet; for there vessels gene rally fink two or three feet in the water: in the fe conc flooring the seamen have their beds, provisions and other necessaries; and on the uppermost floor, the goods that they carry are piled up eight or ten feet, and kept tight by poles planted quite round them, there being a place left abaft for the man who guides the rudder, which is very large, and another a-head to dress victuals, there being an hearth commonly fixed for that purpose, specially when they are upon long voyages, for these vessels will go five or six hundred leagues, as from Lima to Truxillo, and from Guiaquil to Panama. From the midst of the goods rises a mall with a large sail, that makes it ply fast before the wind, which they can never go against so that they are obliged to,dispose
dispose of bottom and all at the place where thei unlade; for it is to be observed, that in there fe; the winds are always the same, scarcely varying more than a point in all the course from Lima t Panama bay, and even there they meet with ni great sea; but if the breeze comes from the north they lower their sails and drive before it, expedient a change, and taking care to keep clear of the shore for they are so contrived, that they will scarcely sins at sea, and are easily managed by three or four men they carry sixty or seventy tons of goods, and thei cargoes consist commonly of oil, wine, sugar, flour Quito cloth, soap, goats-skin dressed, &c. With the smaller log-barks they will venture on boar Ships, affixed by the land-winds in the night, which are never wanting on this coast, and the lea-breeze brings them back in the day-time.,This sort of float is used both in the East ant West Indies, and it is common on the coast of Corn mantel to meet with one man managing a single lot of light wood with a paddle, his breech and legs ir the water, and appearing at a distance as if he wa! seated on the back of a fish; these are called Cat. marans. The buildings of Payta, like most cf those upon the sea-coast of Per,, are badly built, the wall! being made of bricks, formed of a mixture of earth and straw baked in the fun, for they never burn them ; their dimensions are generally three feet long, two feet broad, and one foot and a half dia met erin some places they have no roofs to their houses, for it never rains in this climate; they have only poles laid a-cross from the fide-v.alls, which are very high, and covered with mats to defend them from the heat of the fun: they have no timber, and though up the country they have some stone, for near the sea they have none, it is so brittle that it will crumble to dust between the fingers: however, their walls continue a long time firm ; but its ta,be
be observed, they have neither winds to shake, nor rains to undermine or rot them the houses of the better sort of people are white. wailed both within and without, and in the con fruition of them timber is made use of, which for that purpose is brought from Galileo and Tornado, to the northern parts of Peru, and frown the island of Chloe to the southern parts. Their. doors and ports, as well as the beams of their churches, are ornamented with carved work; and their houses are hung wish rich tapestries, fine embroideries, or good piflsres, which are imported to this country from Old Spain.,November the Both, the fleet of buccaneers turn ed out of the bay of Payta after night-fail, taking the benefit of the land-breeze, .and fleering towards the isle of Lobos de la Mar, and on the 14th came up with Lobos de la Terra, where they landed some men the following day, who killed a number of pen ruins, boobies, and heals, which were a seasonable refreshment, they having been a long time without tasting flesh of any sort. On the igth they arrived at Lobos de la Mar, where their Mofkitto men struck a great number of turtle; and having taken on board planks for firing and other uses, which they had taken out of a prize, and left here former ly, it was resolved to attack Guiaquil.,CHAP
CHAP. VI; The island, bay, and toWn of Guiaquil described: tb fatal offers of a wound from a cat-fill: the island of Pana and Punta Arena described: houses built upon fits: an account of the palette-tree: this designs upon the town of Guiaquil m;,aiarry, part borough a disagreement among the captains, andpartt through the cowardice and treachery of one of Davis'. men: they seize three barks with a thousand negn slaves, m ft of whim they sit aloe : Dampier's re. cj'iefins upon the it.dfcretisn cf this condé' : the enter the bay of Panama, and anchor in the rivet St. Jago: the cabbage, and red and white-caotts trees described : rraflns why neither the Spaniard. nor any ther Europeans have made conquests between the equinoctial and the gulph of St. Michael: ou author rows a good way up the river St. Jago, finds a little prov-vision, and is avoided by the inhabitants; they make Don Diego de Pines, a Spanish knight, prisoner: the Spar.;jh Indians mistake them for Spa niards en account of the Armada sint from Spain triennially for the Amir-can treasure ; its course, and the different ports at which it touches: the climate of Panama dangerous to the natives of Perusal I A QUI L is a wealthy town, situated in a bay of the same name, that runs on the south side of Cape Blancoo, and on the north cf Point Chandy, about twenty five leagues from Cape Blancoo lies due eat and west, in a small island shaped like a dead man in a shroud, called Santa Clara. The south side of the bay is full of dangerous shoals, and a flip laden with plate had been lost upon it some )ears before the coming hither of captain Da-,5 . vis
is, for the riches of which the inhabitants did not. are to dive because of the abundance of cat-fill und all about the bay, which wound whomsoever hey strike with their sins, very often mortally, and the person assailed escapes only with a lame limb, e may think himself well off. These fish are of different sizes, weighing sometimes seven or eight pounds, and at other times no bigger than a man's dumb, but a stroke of the leaf of them is equally enormous with that of the largest : they are shaped ike a whiting, and have a head like that of a cat, with a very wide mouth, from which several firings oint out on each side like whiskers. Seven leagues east-north-east from Santa Clara ics the island of Pana, theweftermoft point of which s Punta Arena, where all ships bound into'the bay fQuiaquil flop for pilots. There is only one town n this island, inhabited by Indians, who are all eaten; the middle of the island is all savannah, but in several, places there are scattered little woods f trees, mostly unknown to the Europeans; the alberto-tree particularly is found in many parts of the island.,It is a straight tree, of the thickness of an-ail, rowing to the height of thirty feet, having branches only on the top, where they grow to the length of three or four feet, and from the end of every branch there shoots out one large leaf, at first in folds, but as it ripens it opens by degrees, and spreads it elf out like a very large fan. In Bermudas, and many other places, they make hats, baskets, brooms, fans to blow the fire instead of bellows, and many other domestic utensils of the palmetto-leaf; it is also used to roof the houses of Pana, which are about twenty in number, landing upon posts ten or twelve feet high, and ascended by ladders: they have buildings of the same sort among the Malay ans in the East Indies.,The
The natives are obliged by the Spaniards to kea confidant watch upon a point of high land a they have good plantations of mais, yams, ap, potatoes. Over against the middle of the tow there is good anchoring for ships in five fathom water, and a soft oozy ground; from Puna Guiaquil is seven leagues, and four miles to t seaward of the town of Guiaquil there is a from island about a mile long, dividing the river in two fair channels, of which that on the southey is the widest and most clear.,Guiaquil is handsomely built, adorned with foi good churches, and governed by a person who h his patent immediately from the king of Spain; finds on the declivity of a hill, and the low parts of it lying close upon the river, are often overflown; it is one of the most considerable pot in the South Seas, the principal exports of it ing drugs, cacao, hides. tallow, and cloth of Qu to, a sort of coarse woollen cloth, and serge rn in a wealthy inland town of Peru, whence it taka its name, and worn by almost all the common peep. in Peru.,Had our buccaneers succeeded in their design upon this town, it would have richly paid their toil; but the enterprize miscarried from captain Swan ad captain Davis not agreeing rightly in the method ac cording to which they were to proceed; and oa of the men belonging to the latter, to whose can was committed the firing by which an Indian guide, who conducted them through the woods was fasten ed, having privately cut it; the guide reached ti town by himself, and spread an alarm, while0lb fellow who had been guilty of this piece of treacle ry loudly exclaimed, that some person had done unseen so that the sailors not knowing which wa to go, were obliged to halt till day-light, whe,thbe
ey got into their canoes, and rowed up into the middle of the river, in full view of the town, ici, it was evident, was apprized of their com g, and prepared for their reception; however, ending at a beef-station, on the opposite shore, ey killed and ate a cow, and then returned to Cape anno, off which they had left their ships when ey went upon this fruitless expedition. In their return they seized three barks bound for uiaquil, having on board a thousand negroes men d women, out of which having chosen about vent of the strongest and likeliest fellows among em, they turned the rest adrift with the barks, id soon saw them make the Chore. Mr. Dampier seems to think that this was a great piece of indiscretion; for had the command been is, he would have carried them directly over the hus, and set them to work upon the gold mines Santa Maria, in which undertaking he does not ubt but he would Coon have been Co well support by the English and French privateers, from all arts of the West Indies, that he had not only been !e to have maintained his ground against all the over of Spain in that quarter of the world, but wen, in time, would have been firing enough to ave extended his conquests to the coasts and weal y gold mines of the province of Quito. On the 13th of Otober they left Punta Arena, nd went back to La Plata; in their passage they et the bark which they had dispatched in search captain Eaton, of whom they had learned no ing: here they divided the cloth taken aboard the ar*, which captain Swan turned into a tender. ere they left this place, which was on the 23d f Otober, 1684, they furnished themselves with turtle, captain Davis having Come Indians aboard rho were good strikers; but Swan had none, nor id he obtain a Share without Davis's men murmur-sing
ing at it; for ever since the miscarriage at Gust quit, which they laid to his charge, they had n liking to him from hence they failed to the bay of Panama and entered the river St. Jago, for the convenient cy of anchoring safely at Gallo, an ifland'in tl neighbourhood. Their design was to search fl canoes in some place like this, where the Spaniard had neither any settlement nor trade with the nati Indians; for all the way from the line to the gulp of St. Michael, and even to the bay of Panain; there are no Spaniards ro be found, nor are the ir diana any way subjected to them, except on Id banks of a gold river or two, where some few them work the river St. Jago is very wide and :navigable for several leagues up the country; about feel leagues from the( sea it surrounds a pretty lar island; above which it is league wide; the tea running straight and swift; the mould of the island as well as the land on each side, is deep black, pri during a number of tall trees, the-largess and ma remarkable among which are the cotton-and-cal bage-trees.,There are two sorts of cotton trees, the wbi and the red; the white grows to a considered height, branching out like our oak, having a bo clear from knobs, but big-bellied like a nine-pi and a grey smooth bark. When the cotton is rip the trees appear like apple-trees in blossom; l cotton-is very fine, but so discontinuous, that it not worth gathering, though it is used for slush pillows in the East Indies: it casts its leaves in tl month of April, and new ones immediately supr their place. The red cotton-tree is like the both in every thing, except that it does not bear cotton and its wood is the tougher of the two, though th are both soft and spongy, fit only for canoes;,i
ll they last long even in that use, if they are not en drawn ashore and tarred. The cabbage is the tallest, as the cotton is the ices tree growing in this climate: for in the bay f Campeachy, our author measured one that was ne hundred and twenty feet long; it has branches o where but near the top, where they sprout out o the length of twelve or fourteen feet, covered 'with small long leaves, in such regular order, that hey appear at a distance as if but one leaf. In the middle of there branches grows the fruit, as big as L man's leg, as white as milk, and very sweet, whither eaten raw or boiled. The tree is commonly ut down for the sake of getting the fruit, and if it were not, it would immediately decay. - l This tree also bears little twigs between the cab age and the branches, whence shoot out little ber ries that are good food for the hogs; the body of the tree, from top to bottom, is full of round rings, about half a foot asunder one from another; the bark is thin and brittle; the wood is black and hard, and there is a white pith in the middle of the tree. There trees being of a very pleasing verdure, are a great ornament to the grove, and the planters in Jamaica make great use of them the Spaniards have made but a trifling progress in this part of Peru, prevented in some measure per laps by the great rains or impassable woods, and intimidated by the ferocity of.the inhabitants, which disappears impossible to tame.; and they are by their rivers and woods, &c. rendered moreover inaccessible for whoever attempts to row up the rivers must lie exposed to their ambuscades on each side, and they are such good marksmen, that their ar rows generally answer their intentions the chief food of these people, who hate the Spaniards mortally, is plantain and mais, of which they have good plantations.,t-O
Our author however, with some of his mel. mates, ventured to row six leagues up the river, til they came to two huts where they found some fowl a few plantains, and an European hog, which til dressed and fed upon very heartily; but the Indian who owned them, as soon as ever they approach got into their canoes with their children, wive and houshold-stuff, and paddled away with fuel faste, that there was no possibility of overtaken them. After a day's excursion or thereabouts, the returned to their ships, which were stationed the island ofGallo, a small uninhabited island, abo, three leagues from the mouth of the river Monaco and four and a half from a small Indian village bearing the same name, where they made a descend! the succeeding night, and seized upon all the ina. giants, among whom was Don Diego de Pina,, a Spanish knight, who was come hither to lade timber they found nothing in the flip that brought him, but thirteen jars of wine; these they took out, and then turned the flip a-drift. The same day, thai Indians of a dark copper complexion, who wen well-limbed, but of an indifferent height, with bad hair, long visages, and bad features, came on board them Mi a canoe, taking them for Spaniards, ane having drank freely of some wine that was given them in calabashes, they went away.,On the 3i1t, two canoes belonging to captain Davis and captain Swan returned with several ounce cf gold, which they had found in a house seven ol eight leagues up the river, belonging to a lady wh( lived at Lima, and who kept servants here to tral with the Indians for got ; these servants, at sigh of the cares, had made their escape into the count try january miss, 1685, in going with their canoe and prisoners from Monaco towards Gallo, thes seize
iced a Spanifh packet, whereby they learned that e Armada was arrived from Spain at Porto-bello, here it waited the plate-fleet from Lima, whither is packet was bound from the president of Panama to hasten it. This Armada comes to the West Indies only once three years; the first port it makes is Carthage whence, after having anchored sixty days, it proceeds to Porto-bello, where it remains a month take in the king's treasure from Panama, which said to amount to twenty-four million of pieces eight, besides plate and goods, the property of irate merchants, who cheat the customhouse, packing it up among merchandize of several arts, and embarking it at Vera Cruz for Porto elle. On the 30th day, exactly after the arrival of the armada in the harbour of Porto-bello, the admiral alls down to the mouth of the river, where per aps he tarries a week longer to oblige the mer ants, then it returns to Cartagena to take in the ing's revenues, which are for that purpose collects along the coast by a large Spanish gallon, called y them a patache. This business being adjusted, it goes on to the-hannah, where it takes on board the riches brought from the Philippine isles by the Manila ip; as also the wealth of Mexico, brought hither from Vera Cruz in a small squadron of ships fitted list for that end.,Porto-bello is an unhealthy place, wherefore the [traders from Lima make as short a slay here as possible but Panama is much more wholesome, both from its situation and air, the rains not being here so heavy as on the other side of the bay besides, have g an open champaign country, on the land side, free from fogs, and being fanned all day by the sea-breezes, and by the land-breezes all night.,The
The Peruvian merchants, whose natural china is much better, while theyfltay here, cut off tht hair, to prevent fevers. Our author tells us, ths Panama, viewed from the sea, is one of the find landscapes the West Indies affords: the new city which is well-built of brick, about four leagues from the ruins-of old Panama, the greatest part of whit in I673, was burned to allies by Sir Henry Mo. gan, is handsomely ornamented, with the preli dent's house, several good churches, monasteries; and other public edifices. It is surrounded with high stone wall, with a good number of guns upo it. The traffic of new Panama is very extensive it being the table for all goods to and from Pen and Chili, as well as one of the nations of the plate fleet, befideslarge private trade.,CHA A
C H A P. VII. e Buccaneers resolve to cruise among the Pearl Islands; they take a prize : the manner in which wild mon lies open oysters: Amelia, Pachea, Perico, the ills of Tobago and St. Paul's described: they ire mar being-destroyed by treachery of Toeiailzl7i they ane joined by more buccaneers: the governor of Petit Gave, or Guvi.gives them communion to aa in a bastille manner: they fail to the gulf of St. michael, and are reinforce-ce by captain Townley with one held ed and eighty men; they make p ovfni;ns of fij, chocolate, &c. and tbenJle.r for the Pearl Sands: tejfapadillo, the avogat'-pear, iheJiar-apple, and other fruits described: they are intimidated from at tacking Panama-engaged in a running fit: the Spa;;ia-ds very fearful,,UR buccaneers, upon the intelligence com mutilated by the packet, changed a relation before made of going to Amelia, and deter ned to rendezvous among the Pearl Islands, a ad through which all ships must pass in their way om Lima to Panama. Accordingly they hoisted il for this rendezvous on the 7th, and on the 8th ok a flip of ninety tons burthen, laden with ur, and then sailed towards Gorgonia, an island out four leagues from the continent, twenty-five m Gallo, two leagues long, and one broad, lys g in latitude three degrees north, and remark le for two risings called the Saddle; it is well oded and watered, object to frequent rains, d producing no animals but rabbits, snakes, and skies, which latter, at low-water, open the oyf- rs, of which here are plenty, some bearing an in thereat sort of finally pearl, and take out the sill. VoL. VI. D
On the 13th they went forward toward tb Pearl, otherwise the King's Islands, of % which then is a good number, being low and woody, lyij about twelve leagues from Panama; the most nor era of them is called Pachea, the most southern Paul's ; thereat, though some of them larger, hat no particular name.,On the 25th, this little fleet, consisting of tw flout ships, one commanded by Davies, another Swan, a fire ship, the ninety tons prize, and tv tenders, came into a deep well-inclofed.channel, the north side of Qt. Paul's Isle, which is a g: place to careen; and having scrubbed the bottom of, and cleaned their barks, they sent them out cruise in the road to Panama. On the rift th returned with a prize, bound thither from Lave with Indian corn, salted beef, and fowls.,Lavelia is a large town, about seven leagues fro the sea, upon the banks of a river that empties self on the north side into the bay of Panama; a together with Nata, another good town upon laid river, supplies Panama with hogs, fowls, b and maison the sith of February, being well proved with water, fuel, and provisions, they turned from among the islands, and on the 17th came anchor in seventeen fathom water, within a lea of Pachea.,On the 20th, they anchored a league from d Perico flints; and on the 21fr another prizes into their hands, laden with hogs, beef, fowl, a: salt from Savelia.,On the 24th they steered for Tobago, a f island, three miles long and one broad, in the: of Panama, six leagues south of the town, thes whereof produces plenty of hammers, plantain; bananas, cocoa, and other fruit. The foutha:v side of this island is covered with trees and si,'vos
wood, and on the north side there is a fine fresh water spring, which falls into the sea. Here was formerly a handsome church, but it has been de flowed by privateers; and to north north-west lies a small town called Tobazilla, near which the Buccaneers came to an anchor on the 25th, and had like to have seen their vessels destroyed by a pretended trader, who promised to enter into private traffic with them, instead of which he advanced towards them in a fire. hip, but some of the privateer's men suspecting his design, fired upon the vessel; whereupon those who guided her took to their boats, and (he blew up, without doing any damage : at the same time, a small float which was in sight, guided by one man, and was supposed to be a compound of com buftibles designed to lay hold of their rudder, also disappeared these engines were the workmanship of captain Bond, of whose defection we have heretofore spoken for the ignorance of the Spaniards in the south seas, with respect to marine affairs, is almost in credible.,On the z8th they were joined by two hundred French and eighty English buccaneers, who came from the North Sea over the Isthmus of Darien, in which journey they had been well used. The English divided themselves between Davis and Swan, and the French were put on board the flour prize, under command of captain Coronet, one of their own countrymen ; these last had blank commissions from the governor of Petit Gave, which they offered to share with captain Davis and captain Swan; the former accepted of one, but the latter had already a commission from the duke of York.,It was at this time very common for this governor to supply the buccaneers with commissions as well as blank ones for any others with whom they might chance to join company:' they are,D 2 in
in reality no more than a license to fish, fowl, an hunt on the isle of Hispaniola, which belongs part. lv to the Spaniards. partly to the French; never. theseus, under the sanction of them, the latter had committed great ravages in America, both by fa and land thus reinforced, they sailed on the 2d of March towards the gulf of St. Michael, in quest of captain Townley, who was said to be crossing the isthmus with one hundred and eighty men, with whom the came up the next day among the King's or Pearl Islands; he had taken two barks, one laden with flour, and the other with sugar, and jars of brandy and wine, which he gladly divided among the men belonging to Davis and Swan, as he wanted the jars to fill them with water; in search of which, it being the dry season, they steered to Point Gara. china, where they found none, but were supplied with refreshments by the natives, who did not un. understand Spanish ; whence it may be justly inferred they had no commerce with the Spaniards.,This induced them to sand over for Port Pine but the sea ran so very high near the flore, that the boats could not make the land; wherefore they returned on board and tacked about for the Point, off which they arrived on the 29th: i5 their way thither, where they were still disappoint ed of water, they took a prize laden with cocoa; they then tacked over under a south-south-west. wind to Tobago, and in their course fell in with four Indians and a Mulatto in a canoe, who proved to be the same that manned the fire ship ; they, a a reward for their treachery, were immediately hanged up.,Here they found wood and water; and while some of the fleet, which now confined of nine fat were affixing to provide a sufficient flock for the different companies, others of the mea brought O1,from
rom Come neighbouring plantations sugar to.fweet.- en the chocolate which they made out of their co coa, and three copper kettles, which they much needed to dress their victuals in, their number being. so considerably increased.,On the I both they left Tobago, and again sailed towards the King's or Pearl islands; this they did at the instigation of their pilot, who told them that the king's (hips always took that course.,On the 22d they arrived at Chepelio, one of the pleasantness isles in. the bay of Panama, though but a mile long and not quite so broad; here grow plenty of plantains, fapadilloes, avogato-pears, hammers, mammee-fagots, far-apples, and several other sorts of delicate fruits the fapadillo is about the size of a bergamo pear; the juice of it, when first gathered, is white and clammy, but grows sweet, and as clear as spring. water, if laid by for two or three days, and the fruit, which was before hard, becomes soft and luscious within it are found two or three black stones, about the bigness of a pumkin-feed.,The avoJato pear is as large as a lemon, and when ripe is of a greenish yellow, and as soft as butter; it has but little taste of itself, yet is reckon ed good, eaten either with sugar and lime juice, or a roast plantain and salt; it is said to be a stimulated of lust; it has a stone as big as a horse-plum. The inside of the mammee-fappota is of a deep red, and contains a rough, flat, long stone; it is plea fan. and wholesome, and reckoned the principal fruit of the West Indies.,The liar-apple tree grows to the height of the quince-tree; the fruit is very large, but thick covered with leaves, so as to be scarcely fecn.,On the 28th they came to anchor once more at Tobago, and examined some prisoners whom they had. seized as to the strength of Panama,,D 3 which
which they had some notion of attacking, being able to muller nine hundred flout men; but they were dissuaded from it by a representation of the numbers of people who had repaired thither from Porto-bello and other parts for its defence, as well as from a consideration of the height of the walls and the strength of the place.,On the 25th, as the buccaneers, who had ten ships great and small, and counted nine hundred and fixtygood men, layoff Pachea, they perceived a Spanish fleet, consisting of fourteen sail bearing dow-n upon them; among there were six Ships of force, mounting from forty eight to eighteen guns, and manned w;ih more than eight hundred men, besides two or three hundred in periagoes. Cap. Sain Grocer, in the flour prize of ninety tons bur-ten. x irh three hundred and eight men, and who was a nr:ie to the north of his achates when the enemy appeared, tacked over to the main. and kept himself out If ;he way while there was the least glimmering of danger for which conduct the ensuing day some of the (sips were for displacing him; but, after much altercation, it was thought best to dismiss him and his men, who were mols of them French, and let them lee the (hip that had been given them, with a charge to quit corn p-ny direst, nor presume at any rate again to join the fleet the two fleets bore down upon one another, the buccaneers having considerably the advantage by being to the s inward ; however, night coming on before they came to close quarters, they could only exchange a few shots, one of which took place in one :f hne privateers, and killed a man. Notwithstanding the inferiority of their strength and num ber, the buccaneers, who were in top spirits, would have sought the Spanish fleet, had the latter had sufficient courage to have met them i for though,,by
y changing their lights in the night, they deceived hem and got the watergate, yet after a running. git for the whole day almost round' the bay of Panama, the rovers came to anchor off the island f Pachea; where, after looking at them for some ie at the distance of about three leagues, the timid Spaniards sheered off for the town of Panama. The falling off of Coronet was a most unlucky accident for had he continued firm, they might ea fly have made themselves masters of the fleet and ts treasure; and their misfortune was compleated by their permitting theenemy to gain the windward quarter of them, by hanging out false lights: this miscarriage, had the Spaniards had courage enough to pursue it, might have been of the worst consequences 4 C H AP,
C H A P. VIII. Tie blucher feet fails to the island of Â¢ milo, in,search of captain Harris, wh.mn they meet: that and other neighbouring islands described: an account cf the palma-maria tree: it is greed to attack Leon: cases are prepared for that purpose: the jack the town cf Puebla Nova : they escape a very dangerous temper : they proceed again the city of Lexan: drive the guards from the breast-work: he situation of the town described: the order of tbe;r march; they enter the town; and, after aflightJfiir. mini, rout ajitong, body of the er.my : the intrepidity cf an eld CGomwti'ian soldier; he is killed: the opaisisrads are frightened frctn annoying them 1 fi:'je repeats: the son is burned cn the pay of te ji.;p.'atfd rnfJriz being delayed: they go from thtn:e to Ria Lexa ; a very small loco', but an useful one, found here: the town set on fire by mischance : the guava and prickle-pear dejcribd.,N the if of June the whole fleet set sail from the island of Pachea for the isle of Quibo, in search of captain Harris, whom they had loss in the sight, and expected to meet at Q.ibo, as it was the place of general rendezvous; and he was accordingly therefore their arrival. In their pas sage, captain Brandy lost his main-maud, whereupon he and all his men forsook the bark, and entered on board of captain Davis's flip; at the same time they lost sight of captain Swan, who having sprung his main top-malt slackened his course to repair the damage the stand of Quibo, otherwise called Cabala, is about seven leagues long, and near four broad; it lies in north latitude seven degrees and fourteen,minutes,
minutes, is mostly low land, with good water, tall. thriving trees, some deer, canoes, and snakes, and plenty of large black monkies that are good eat ing. There are many other small islands lying both south-west and north north-east of Quibo; one of which is called Ranchena, remarkable for being well flocked with' the palma maria-tree, a straight tall tree with a little head, and resembling the palm in nothing but name; it is a tough knotty wood, very fit for masts, amuse to which-it is often applied june the I6th they were joined by captain Swarrn and now the captains held a council among them selves, in which it was debated what expedition they were now to go on ; when, after mature deli operation, the fittest place that occurred to be at tacked was the city of Leon; and as canoes were wanting in this excursion, the place lying good way within the land, it was resolved to make ca noes on the islands where they now anchored, am, there was a sufficiency of timber for that purpose , to be found on every spot. i While they were preparing there necessary appurtenances one hundred and fifty men were sent to stake Puebla Nova, where captain Sawkins was killed in scio; on this occasion the town, though defended apparently more strongly than before, fell an cafe prey to the buccaneers, who however got very little by the expedition, not even provisions. Having fini lied canoes sufficient for every (hip, among which was one thirty-fix feet long, and five or six feet wide, they set out for Ria Lexa, which is the port for the city of Leon. On the 9th of August they quitted their (hips, and embarking on board of their canoes, of which they had thirty one, being live hundred and twenty men in number, and about tight leagues from the Shore, they were in great ;anger of being swallowed up by a tornado, whkii,D 5 conti.
continued for some time very fierce, the wind blow. in : excessively hard, the sea running mountains high, and the thunder roaring prodigiously; how. ever, this lasted but a short time, though after it had abated, its vigour was renewed again.,On the i2th, in the morning, they landed near breastwork, built purposely to oppose an enemy, which they surprised; and the Indians, to Whom the care of it had been committed, retired pecid stately towards the city, whither four hundred and seventy of the buccaneers followed them as quickly as possible, in good order, the rest being left to guard the canoes. Though it was twenty miles up the country, the road to it was plain and vel, cut through a champaign country, or long grassy. hannah, interspersed with spots of wood. Five miles from the landing place was a sugar-work, and-ten miles from it a fine fresh water fordable fiver, and eighteen miles, an Indian town, where there's also good watershed city of Leon stands in a plain; the house, which are low, and have large gardens, are built of alone, and covered with parties; it has five churches and a cathedral; and, for the sweetness of the situation, has been by some travellers called the 'paradise of the WePt Indies. Near it is a high volcano, which sometimes calfs out smoke and flames, and is often discernible at sea: it is a place of no great trade, but rkh in sugar, pasturage, and cattle; here is also said to be a good manufaafto of hemp they began their march about eight in the morn. inn, captain Townley leading the van, confiding or one hundred men, capt in Swan followed him with one hundred, ne.x came captain Davis wil one underhand seventy, and captain Knight b ought up the rear. Captain Towxvlley was at, tacked on his entering the town, by a party of tTw,bua
hundred Spanish horse, who turned tail and fled, as soon as two or three of the principal officers wei e. dismounted 'In consequence of which! timidity, the foot, which to the number of five hundred, was drawn up in the great square, called the pa rade, for molt of the towns built by the Spaniards in the West Indies have at leash one great square,. took to their heels, and abandoned the city to the. mercy of the enemy.,In about four hours. all the privateer forces en tered the town, but left several of their men behind,. who grew tired upon the road, an accident com mon in all long marches; among these was an old. grey-headed fellow of eighty-four years of age,. who had served under Cromwel in Ireland; his name was Swan, him the Spaniards slot dead, for he absolutely refused quarter, and they took some of the others prisoners, among whom was one Mr. Smith, who having lived a good, while in the Ca varies, spoke excellent Spanish; this man, being carried before the governor, was by him examined' as to the strength of the invaders, which he made out to be fifteen hundred men, a thousand in the town and five hundred in the canoes; which judicious piece of deceit had such an effect upon his excellency, that though he was at the head of more. than a thousand men, he did not chuse to molest the enemy, but sent a flag of truce to propose a- ransom for the town, which on the 14th the buccaneers set on fire, the Spaniards not agreeing rea daily to the terms upon which they offered to save, it.,Mr. Smith was afterwards exchanged for a gentle woman; and the buccaneers having given a gentle man his liberty, upon promising to deliver them one hundred and fifty beeves at Ria Lexa, march ed down to their canoes in good order, and next Lzlo'nkig rowed to the harbour of Ria Lcxa,,D 6 where
where their (hips also came to anchor in the after noon, being resolved to sack that town also: encouraged by the success they had met with at Leon.,Here they found nothing but empty houses, ex kept five hundred packs of flour, some pitch, tar, cordage, sugar in the neighbourhood, and the hun died and fifty beeves which had been promised them by the prisoner they had set at liberty, on his pwro'e at Leon 'I he buccaneers staid here a week, vh n they sit fire to the town, though by whose orders it vias done our author declares himself ignorant and then returned to their (hips, embarking on board their canoes at the break-work, where an hundred colliers had been placed to hinder their landing on their first approach; but they abandoned their station on the firing of two guns, and fled with precipitation, though they were so polled, that if they had acted with spirit, they might have repulsed u ,n army of five thousand men; for, twenty .yards below :he breast-work was a barricade of great: trees, joined together, and reaching quite a cross the creek, which the buccaneers were half arn our in cutting their way through the town of Ria Lexa is pretty large; it has three churches, an hospital with a fine garden, and many large handsome houses, at some distance from each other, that take up a good deal of ground; hie air is very unwholesome, because of its swampy inundation, though the soil on which the town immediate ely stands is sandy. Among the many sorts of fruit abounding here, are the guava, the prickle pear, the melon, and the pine-apple.,The guava is a fruit not unlike a pear, with a thin rind, full of small hard seeds; it is pleasant enough, i; eaten green, being then an astringent, but wvben ripe it has a contrary effie on the human body; it may be either baked or cooled, and is very good in picsi it grows on a hard scrubby shrub, of smooth
smooth white bark, with long slender branches,. covered with leaves like those of an hazle.,The prickle-paris common all over the Indies; it thrives best in a sandy barren soil, especially it be near the sea, and partake of its saline particles it is a shrub seldom growing higher than four. feet, (hooting forth several. branches, whence spring two or three thick round substantial leaves, fenced with strong prickles at least an inch long, and as broad as the palm of the hand; at the edge of the leaf grows the fruit, being as large as a white plum; when ripe it is. of a deep red colour, full of shall black seeds, and a thick red pulp, very cooling and refreshing: a meal of the prickle pear gives the urine the colour of blood. The pine apple and melon require no descriptions HA P.
CHAP. IX. Davis and Swan part company: indigo, and the manner of preparing it described; also cochineal and Js. vecrfr, how gathered: the privateers men very Jfkly: captain Townley goes search of refreshments, but hai success: a naturalist d' eau in the island of Angola: two Indians seized; by one of wham they are guided to an Indianfettlement, where theyfind plenty of vi. nrilo: a description of it: some of their men wis were sent in search of black cattle fall into ambush cade; they are near being all destroyed, but sic roused in good time: the fwoIk-fijh] described: ths make an effort to seize a Flip in the harbour of Acapulco contrary to the rcmntlrances of captain Swa, bat have no fticcfs; this attempt prejudicial to them in many ree-es : they seize a little cargo of lour, cheese, and chocolate, &c. th-y are in great dlijref for want cf proviso: they land near Sallagua, and tv o of the m1fZ courageous among the sailors ae in danger of being cut to pieces: they cruise officiate Clients f]r the manila ship, which escapes then: Swan and Truckle) part company; our author Slay with the former. A August the 25th Davis and Swan parted company, the former being resolved to try his fortune again on the coast of Peru; captain Knight and captain Harris determined to keep him company, but the latter designing to run a good deal farther, our author chose to sail with him, and captain Townley with his two barks did the same. They both suffered a good deal (shortly as ter by a malignant fever, which they supposed they had caught at Ria Lexa, and swept off several oi,their
heir men. On the 27th, Davis and his followers turned out of the harbour with a fresh land-wind, captain Swan complimenting him with fifteen guns, which he answered with eleven. September 3d, captain Swan set sail with captain Townley, and two barks, being in all four ships, with three hun died and forty men, fleering westward, and hav ing violent tornadoes all along the coast. On the 14th, they discovered the volcano of Guatemala, which is an high forked hill, throwing out smoke and flames generally before bad weather; it lies in twelve degrees and fifty minutes, and derives its :name from a city standing at the foot of it, about eight leagues from the South Sea, whence there is yearly exported to Europe large quantities of indigo anatta, silvester, and cochineal indigo is a plant growing to the height of a foot and an half, or two feet, full of small branches, 'covered with leaves like those of flax, but thicker and more substantial; being cut, it is thrown into a cistern half full of water, and there left to soak till it is in a manner dissolved; that which remains whole, as being too woody to melt, is after some time taken out, and the water, which becomes black as ink, and was before kept in continual agi nation, let to rest, then the indigo falls to the bot torn like mud, and being soon after taken out and left in the fun to dry, becomes hard, and is exported in the gross to Europe: it is a common plant in Jamaica, where whole fields are sown with it.,The anatta or otto is the leaf of a red flower, growing on a shrub of seven or eight feet high, whence it is plucked and being thrown into water, it is there kept stirring about like indigo, till it is dissolved, and then, after being dried, it is rolled up for European consumption, where it is used as a red dye, and is much more valuable than in digo.,8 The
The cochineal is an infer bred upon a tree cal. led toon somewhat like the prickle-pear, but with larger fruit, on the step-whereof grows a red flower, which falls upon the fruit when it ripens, in such manner as to cover it entirely from rains and dews but there are soon withered under-the heat of the fun, when the fruit opens as wide as the mouth ol a'pint pot, and the insides of it appears full of small red insects, with curious thin wings, which having preyed upon the substance of the fruit that pro, duce them, would perish in its shell, did not the Indians route them from their inactivity by shaking the branches -f the tree, on which the insects rise upon the wing, and continue to flutter round the head of their parent-tree, till being wearied by the motion and the heat of the fun, they fall dead up. on a linen cloth spread under the tree for that pur. pere, where they remain two or three days till the) are thoroughly dry. When they fly they are red, they turn black as they fall, but become white a! they dry; but they change colour a little when the have lain for rome time these communicate a mod curious scarlet dye.,The silvester is the grain of a fruit not unlike that of the toon; these, when the fruit bursts, are easily shaken out, and give a good red colour, but nothing equal to that of the cochineal; the flower of the silvester is yellow; ten or eleven of the fil wester fruit will yield an ounce of seed, whereas an ounce of cochineal is produced from three or four of the fruit the sea, at even eight or ten leagues from the land or the mountain of Guatemala is full of drift wood and pumice-stones, which are probably brought down from the mountain-by the rains, which are very violent and frequent. On the 24th, being in north latitude fourteen degrees and thirty minutes, captain Townley went ashore, taking with,hia
him nine canoes and an hundred add six men; hiss intention was to have marched to a town, well known to stand somewhere thereabouts, called Te guantepeque, in hopes there to have got some re freshmen for the lick men, both he and Swan hav ing at least one half their crew in a very weak un healthy condition; but whether the town was by' some supernatural power rendered invisible, or that it had moved of itself, is not easy to determine; however, be that as it will, captain Townley could not find it, so that he returned on board rather worse than he went. On the 2d of Otober, he was driven upon (coals, where all his canoes over seeing, he lost one of his men, spoiled his powder, and a good deal of the fire-arms, after which accident he was attacked by a party of two hundred In diana and Spaniards, whom he with difficulty re pursed. Townley having rejoined captain Swan, they set sail 'wil fair weather, and the wind at eaft-north- all. keeping a westward course: having run about. twenty leagues, they came-up with the island of Angola, where there is good anchorage, with. plenty of wood and water: from thence they coast ed along till they came to Guatulio, which is in. fifteen degrees and twenty minutes, and one of the bell ports in the kingdom of Mexico. On the east side of the harbour, about a mile from it, is a small island, but the west side of the harbour is the safest for Shipping, because it affords. shelter from the south-west winds, which are often. very violent here, and the water dashing violently under the bottom of a rock which it has undermined and which is perforated quite through, forms a jet d'eau, even in the calmest season; and this is a good mark to find the harbour, which runs north. 'est, three miles deep, and one mile broad. At the bottom there is a fine brook of fresh water,near'
near which formerly flood a town that was sacked by Sir Francis Drake, no signs of which now re. main, except an old ruminated chapel standing in groupe of trees. The land, which is covered with variety of trees, ascends in regular ridges from the shore, and forms a very pleating view here captain Swan, being himself out of order, went ashore with all the sick, and a surgeon to at. tend them, while Townley, at the head of a party of men, marched to the eastward in search of houses, and inhabitants, and about a league from Guatulco came up with a river called Capulet, the courses which is deep and swift; and some of his men swan a-cross the stream, where they seized upon two In. diana, whom they supposed to be Rationed there as sentinels to watch their proceedings, though they were strangers to any thing of Spanish.,One of these they carried on board of the flip, and made use of the other to carry them to an In. tian settlement, where they found plenty of vinello, which is a perfume sold pretty dear in many parts of the Welt Indies, being infused into chocolate, tobacco, &c. to which it gives a delicate flavour; it is a cod of four inches long, full of black seed, arising from a yellow flower, and produced bya sort of vine that adheres like ivy to whatever tree it near it.,On the roth of October they sent four canoes to the westward. in hopes of taking prisoners who had some knowledge of the country, and these were ordered to wait at Port Angels for the ships which on the v th turned out of the harbour of Guatulco, where they had supplied themselve' with wood and water, as well as great plenty a smaller sort of turtle, of which they killed three or four in a day ;so that they were considerable referred, after having been without flesh-meat for a long time. On the aid, two of the canoes begin
ing divided from their consorts, returned on board, having attempted to land at a place where they saw many black cattle feeding upon the savannah; but the sea ran so high, that they were overturned, and one man drowned, four guns lost, and the rest of their arms spoiled with the sea water. There were no news of the two other canoes till. the 3tft, when captain Townley, who lay near the shore, hearing some guns fired, manned a canoe and flood in for the land, where, in the middle of a salt water lake, a little way within land, he saw the two canoes lying upon their oars, and by their disposition perceiving that they were beset on each side, immediately put his men ashore, upon whose approach, some Spaniards who under (helter of the rocks had annoyed them with their fire-arms, took to their heels, leaving the passage open for them to go out; and had not captain Townley affixed them in so very timely a manner, they must have ei ther carved or fallen a prey to the cruelty of the enemy. This lake lies in sixteen degrees and forty minutes of north latitude having thus recovered their canoes, they conti need their course westward. till they came to a large river two leagues west of the Albatross rock, on the banks of which the Spaniards had raised a breastwork, to hinder any enemy from landing or filling water; and though this breastwork was de fended at this time by at least two hundred men, they quitted the place, having ineffectually discharged twenty or thirty guns, when they saw the buccaneers determined to land. Here they found a great deal of salt, used in curing the shook, a thick round fish, about a foot long, abounding in these salt water lakes. Having received intelligence of a Flip richly laden, lately arrived from Lima at acapulco, Townley proposed cutting her out of,the
the harbour; and, in spite of captain Swan's re. mon fit races touching the difficulty of the adventure, as well .s the necessity there was of flocking them. selves with mats and other provision. of which the place wherein they now were, produced plenty, he carried his peint, and the canoes were accordingly manned for the expedition; but they had well nigh been lost in a tornado, which did them a great deal of damage; nor was it without difficulty they outlived it, being obliged to bait a whole day after in Port Alarquifs, a good harbour, a league to the eastward of Acapulco, where they dried their cloaths, arms, &c. and the ensuing night they row ed softly into the harbour of Acapulco, where they found the flip so well guarded that they were for. cet to quit their enterprize, in a very desponding melancholy condition they afterwards landed to the north-west of Pa. taplan hill, in latitude seventeen degrees and thirty minutes; where they found a poor Indian village, vhn-ee there was not a morsel of refreshment, nor inhabitants, but a poor Mulatto woman and some fii.ii children, all whom they brought off: but through this woman's means they seized forty pack of flour, rome chocolate, and several cheeses, which ,ere in the care of a muletier: betides which ac quiiition, they also found great plenty of black cattle. Having flocked themselves with as much provision as they could conveniently stow on board of their different vessels, they dismissed the. woman and her children, with a present of rome old cloth and other trifles, for which (he was very thank fu!. Captain Swan, indeed, in spite of her tears and entreaties, detained one of her boys, whose' ed about eight years old, who had a quick genius and afterwards proved a very good lad, nor could he have had a better halter than captain Swan,,;Q
On this coast they found plenty of turtle, and the Jew fil, so called perhaps from being much esteemed by the people of that profession; it is shaped like a cod, is very fat and sweet, has a large head, with sins and scales in proportion, and often weighs more than four hundred pounds.,On the 2lft they quitted this river, and conti need their course with a land wind from the north, in hopes to have discovered -a town, supposed to be situated in eighteen degrees and odd minutes, but they could find no traces of it; nor of the city of Cclima, which, by report, though far in land, is very rich; and in search of which they rowed in their canoes above twenty leagues along shore, it being difficult landing all the way on each side, with out the least sign of inhabitants, though they passed by the fruitful valley of Magellan. At last they spied a horseman, whom they pursued, having with difficulty made the shore, in hopes to have taken him prisoner; but he outstripped their speed, and they soon lost him in the woods where they could find no tract. On the 28th they rowed back to their ships al most jaded to death, and disheartened entirely from their disappointment; however, the day after, the two captains once more took to the canoes with two hundred men, resolving to go in search of a town called Sallagua; and, as they rowed along shore, they saw two horsemen Standing on the beach, one of whom drank to them by way of derision, out of a pocket-bottle; in return for which civility his horse w-as killed by a (hot from one of the canoes, whereupon his consort left him; and two of the buccaneers having stript themselves, swam' shore, with a view of securing him; but they could not succeed in their attempt, being unarmed, and hd keeping them at bay with a long knife. On the 30th they returned again on board their ships, not,having
having been able to find any safe landing, as tl lea ran so very high however, December the gift, they passed by th. port of Sallagua, being in latitude eighteen degree and fifty two minutes, where (hips may have good shelter. Here they saw one large thatched house which appeared to be new, and a good many Spa. niards both horse and foot, who made a military parade, with drums beating, colours flying, &c, however, tome of them staid to parly with two hua. died buccaneers that landed, a couple of who seized two horses. having first knocked down tE. riders, upon which they mounted and pursued th fugitives so far that they were surrounded by then, receiving several cuts, and would have been er. vainly killed, if some of the swiftest amongst them had not rescued them just in time; for they 'ere already unhorsed, and had stood the discharged several pistols here they found a broad stony road leading into the country, interspersed with thick woods of no continued length; aid this road, they were inform. ed by two Mulattoes whom they made prisoner, led to the great city called Oarrha, distant four very long days journey on horseback from ti sea, the country being all the way very thinly in. habited they left this place on the 6th of Otober; intending to cruise escape Corientes, and wait fe a very rich flip from the Philippa Islands, hours expected in the Mexican seas. The land about this cape is of an indifferent height, uneven an woody, though the trees are not over large: here our author and several of his messmates were seized with a dropsy; to cure which they sought anal' lighter, the testicles of which pulverised, are ail to be efficacious in that disorder; but though tho creature is easily found on the Mexican coast, then,fearch4d
searched for it now in vain; however, the reign of the distemper was not of long duration,Ihe buccaneers now cruising off Cape Corientes expecting the arrival of the Manila (hip, flood a league distant from each other, in order to make the more sure of her, between the Cape and cap tain Sw::n, who kept near ten leagues off shore; On the 24th, four canoes, which had a few days before left the (sips, and gone in search provision to the Valley of Flags, or Valley Alders, re turned on board : having met with but indifferent success. This valley lies in a deep bay, between Cape Corientes and the point of Continue; it is about three leagues wide, rising from a smooth level ground towards the sea, whence the landing is easy, and it is bounded within land by a pleasant green hill; here are some rich savannahs, abound ing with black cattle and horses, and interspersed with groves of trees; among which are very fine oranges, limes, guavas, and other fruit, as if na ture had designed this spot for a garden. At this place it was the canoes had landed thirty-seven men, who having marched about three miles without fee ing any houses, fell in with a body of one hundred and fifty Spaniards, horse and foot; to avoid the trampling of whose horses, the buccaneers retired in good order to a close wood, where they sus gained the attack of their enemies very bravely; killing the leader of them, and seventeen more of their ho fe ; whereupon the reit fled.,In this skirmish, the buccaneers lost four men and had two wounded, whom they brought down to their canoes upon horses, one of which they killed and ate, for they were afraid of venturing again into the savannah, where there was horned cattle in plenty, left they should meet more enemies.,On the 25th, being Christmas day, they ob served it with great decency, and regaled upon,some
Tome very large Jew fish caught by their strikers, On the 28th, captain Townley returned on board, having been a week absent, with forty bushels of mais, which he brought from an Indian village, about five leagues up the country, lying to the leaf of Cape Corientes; the inhabitants whereof had fled at his approach, having first set two houses on fire that were filled with mais. January the gift, their provisions being all exhausted, they were obliged to stand in for the valley Alders, to get provision, and came to anchor about a mile off shore, in sixty fathom water here they continued seven or eight days, hunt. ing and salting provisions, of which they laid in two months flock, and might have had as much more, had their salt held out; during which time the Spaniards often appeared in large companies on the hills, but never dared to attack them ; for cap. tain Swan and captain Taylor were ashore every day, and seldom had less than two hundred and forty men with them: while they were engaged in this very necessary business, the Manila (hip passed by them to the eastward, as they soon after un. derflood from some prisoners, whom they chanced to seize.,It was certainly a great loss to them, as she is generally stored with almost all the riches of the West Indies, the produce of the year. But of her, and the situation and trade of Acapulco, by which name she is alto sometimes distinguished, we shall speak more largely in the voyage of lord Anson.,The expectation of meeting the flip, having been captain Townley's only inducement for cruising in these seas, and the hopes of it being now vanished, he and captain Swan parted company Townley returning to the Peruvian coast, and Swan keeping on a westward course, imagin ing he should at length find some rich town, or,gold
sold and silver mines on the coasts but he was de civet, sir it is an inland country, and ha, but ]little or no commerce with the South Sea, it. trade with Europe being carried on at Vera Cruz, which lies to the eafl.,Captain Townley took With him three or four of the friendly inhabitants of the Isthmus, who had taken a liking to the buccaneers, and desired to sail with them but being now weary of that kind of life, they wished again to see their nati e land where Townley promised to set them ashore, and kept his %ord.,CHAP. X. The penguin fruits described : captain Swan goes in quest of the river Callacan : takes a prisoner, who guides him to a town called Santa Pecaque, where they fid plenty of provisions; but fifty of ihe'r m n are killed by their own mnifondusA : they ft fa: fIr California: cur author's odd remedy for the dropsy : captain Swan persuades his men, with lome dIffultr, to go on a voyage to the Ears Innlie,; is in danger of being eaten for want of other sod, by his men: they obtain sight of the Earl Indian c;aJl. January the 7th, they sailed from this bay with fair weather, and the wind at north-earl, and n the 23th anchored on the east side of the Cicely islands, which lie in latitude twenty-three degrees eleven minutes; there islands being six in umber, are not very high, they are covered with few shrubs, but bare of wood and rocky to the ea; except to the northward, where there is a couple of sandy bays here the penguin fruit grows ngreatplenty. Of there there are two Sorts ; the ed and the yellow. VOL. VI. E O-
Of the red, which has no shem, but springs im. mediately out of the ground, sixty or seventy wil rise from the same root, growing all close together it is shaped like a ninepin, as big as a frill dried onion ; fenced with prickly leaves, about a fool and an half and two feet long.,Of the yellow, eighteen or twenty of them grÃ³o in a clutter out of a green flem, about a foot high surrounded with sharp prickly leaves, half a fool high and an inch long; the fruit is as big as a pul. let's egg, covered with a thick rind, and full o small black seeds. The taste of both kinds of ths penguin is much alike, sharp and pleasant, neve offending the stomach, but causing a tickling a the fundament: they are also common in the bai of Campeachy, where, in many places, their leave obftruA they way. On the Chametley islands ar found some canoes, and a few seals, it being th only place on the north side of the equator, except the Maria, where our author remembers to hay seen any of the latter here captain Swan took a hundred men with hir in the canoes, and went to the northward in quel of the river Callacan, which there is some reason believe is the same with Pasha it is supposed to lies the province of Callacan, in twenty-four degree north latitude, with a very wealthy town uponil banks; but they rowed thirty leagues without seeing any signs of the river: not being able t make the land, which was low, with safety, on ac count of the great swell. However, they after wards landed on the west side of a salt lake, five leagues north-northwest from theChametly islands where they found one house, wherein they too seven or eight bushels of mais, and were told a prisoner they made, that there was generally good deal of black cattle in this place, which It Spaniards had driven off but that they migl,ha'
have a good chance of finding provisions in an In tian town about five leagues distant, to which place they immediately bent their course; and were op posed at the entrance of it, by a large party of Spaniards and Indians, whom they soon routed; after which engagement, they packed up what mais they could find and carried it on board february the 2d, eighty men were ordered to a town called Rosario, lying on a river of the same name, whence they, brought off about' ninety bushels more of mais, which was at this time more valued by them than all the wealth of the Indies; for as they were in great want of it, they did not trouble themselves with visiting the gold mines, which were said to lie within two leagues of this town. From Rosario, the chips removed to the river St. Jago, one of the chief rivers on the coast; for here they had a notion of finding a town of some consequence; seventy men were sent up the river in canoes, while the ships anchored at the mouth; and there found a large field of mais, and also made an Indian prisoner, who promised to con du them to an Indian town called Santa Pecaque; for which expedition, eight canoes and a hundred and forty men were furnished the town of Santa Pecaque, in the neighbour hood of which are some vfiver mines, is not large, but very neatly built, in a pleasant plain near the side of a wood; here they found plenty of corn and cattle; but a sort of mutinous spirit getting among the men, they refused to march in order, as they went with mais, which they loaded on horses, to the canoes; so that fifty-four horses laden with mais, guided by fifty men, fell into an ambuscade from which not a tingle man of them escaped being every one cut to pieces after which loss, they were something more tractable, and drew off,E 2 ',
to the canoes, under the command of their cap. tain, with proper deference the day following this unhappy engagement, captain Swan gave orders for filling water and sail. ing; accordingly they got under sail the pitt, fleer. ing for California, with the wind at north-west and weft-north-weft.,February the 7th, they came to anchor off the middlemost of the Maria islands, on the east side, These islands lie in latitude twenty one degrees forty minutes, stretching south-west and north-earl about fourteen leagues. The soil is dry and stony, covered with a shrubby sort of wood; thro' which, as it grows thick, it is troublesome to pass. Here is found a root, bearing a thick prickly leaf like that of the penguin, which the Indians of Cali. fornia esteem good food when baked ; the taste of it is not unlike English burdock: there are some cedars scattered up and down the island. Our au thor also tells us that canoes, Indian conies, and racoons, are plenty on these islands; as well as pi gens, turtle-doves, tortoises, and seals: and to the middlemost of them, where captain Swan an. choked, he gave the name of Prince George's islands this place, our author whose dropsy still hung upon him, was buried for about half an hour up to the neck in the hot land, which produced a pro. fuse perspiration, and he was afterwards lapped up warm and put to bed in a tent; by which means, he obtained great relief in his disorder they staid coating between the ides and Cape Coie:.tes, four leagues to the north of which they filed water from a little rivulet on the conti nant, till the 3'ft of March, when they fieere their course for the East Indies; to which voyage captain Swan had found many of his men ver averse, through their ignorance of its being pÂ°i,fible
bible; however, the majority were for it, as it promised a change of Come fort, and their luck in this part of the world had been hitherto very in different i nor did there seem a probability of its mending.,On the 20th of May, about four o'clock, fleer ing westward, they discovered land at eight leagues distant, which gave them great joy, as they had but three days provisions left; and the men begin to murmur at captain Swan, for carrying them they could not tell whither. In all this voyage, they saw neither sis nor fowl, except a large flight of boobies, which they supposed to come from rome neighbouring rocks; being then, according to Mr. Dampier's calculation, five thousand nine hundred and seventy-five miles west of Cape Corientes in the kingdom of Mexico.,It was very well that they arrived here at the time they did, for the men, who had been against the voyage, had entered privately into a confederacy to kill captain Swan, as soon as their provisions were consumed, and feed upon him, as well as upon Dampier, and every other person, who had been for this tedious voyage; the captain was a lusty fat man, and would have regaled them pretty well, but our author was too thin to have given them any satisfaction, had their hunger been ever so greate 3 CHAP.
CHAP. XI. Captain Swan arrives off the island cf Guam: th,,coc nut tre, the fruit of it, the arrack or liq:sr that it yields: ibe ccir cables, lime or crab lemon, bread fruit, and inhabitants of Guam described: the jane of the ij]ind and srca! civility of the go. vrnor: they sail from thence ts the I'hilip/,ii .sands: Lucina, ,f'7n';l, St. AJbn, and Mi.,- dana dferlbed: the libby tree aod other prdutc. tions of St. chin's isle set firth: very many Jess made of the plantain: betel nut, jack, marian, areca, and various other fruits described ; with tbh bc-ass, birds, infests, &c. of these island : but more particularly of .Mindanao, whb, e captain Swan comes to anchor : the vivian of this island into dis fran. principalities : tbz manners, religion, and habet of tb people : their diet, cleanliness andbuf/es: their vaji faMiiariiriy : the manner in which thes educate lkeir children: their love for the English: their trade and comme dies : t pe power and poverty cf the sultan : the arms of his ,soldiers: jlemwisty 5f a circumcise: ih.ir religion and daily prayers: their aversion to swings pt j a./ftiry relative th ibis avtrfn.,A Y the 211I, .I686, about eleven at night, V they came to anchor about a mile from shore on the west fde of the island of Guam, which is one of the Ladrone, lying in latitude thirteen degrees twenty-one minutes, having an indirte.er.t dry foi; producing rice, pine-apples, watch-melons, musk-melons, oranges, limes, co c. es, bread-rust, &c.,The iimrr is a sort of a crab lemon, with a thin ;;i J s'-i of a very tart juice, which is excellent in,punch,
punch, and much used for that purpose all over the West Indies; it is also pleasant enough mixed with' sugar, and used as a preservative for Guinea pep per, the latter having been first boiled in water. Limes grow plentifully every where within the Tropics and by sowing the lime seed thick together in Jamaica, they raise good fences about their gar dens, &c.,The bread fruit, which is as large as a good.' sized two-penny loaf, grows on a tree, something like that which bears our largest apples. The in hide of it is soft, tender, white, and crummy, like bread, with sweet pleasant taste, if eaten in less than twenty-four hours after it is plucked; for then it becomes dry and fuzzy. The natives of this inland bake it in an oven, and then scrape oft the outside, which comes out black and scorched. This fruit is in season eight months of the year, during which time the natives eat no other kind of bread; and it is a fruit, which Dampier thinks peculiar to the Ladrone, as he does not remember to have seen or heard of it in any other part of the world the coco is a very hardy tree, thriving in almost every soil, and growing to a very great height ; the nut grows at the end of the branches, which are a, thick as a man's arm; it is generally as large as a man's head, and has a rind two inches thick, before you can come at the shell, which is back, thick, and hard, being manufactured into drinking cups, spoons, and other useful utensils, which are much esteemed, particularly in Europe; beneath ths. shell is a kernel, which ties, before it is quite ripe, very feet, being like thick cream; but as the fruit matures, it becomes more substantial and is not easy of digestion; this kernel is hollow, and contains a liquor that is very whole force, sweet, and refreshing. These nuts may bee 4 planted
planted after having been kept like dried onions three or four months; for like them they will be gin to sprout out after having lain by some time The outside rind or hulk is full of finally firing or threads, which being beaten, become soft liL tow, from thence they are spun into yarn, where are made g od cable rope, called coir cables and sometimes a coarse sort of sail-cloth: in ths South-seas, the Spaniards use this tow defied ( oakum to caulk their ships, and they say it ntvt lots there is-halo a liquor drawn off the co o tree called toddy, which loss like whey; and is fok morning and evening in most towns of the Leaf. Indies: the branch which is tapped for this pur. pose produces ro fruit, and will continue to rut as long as the fruit is growing upon other branches, the vegetation whereof it never hurts; this liquor is vastly agreeable, but turns four in twenty-foui hours; from it is distilled a sort of arrack which makes excellent punch, but muss have a cask ol brandy to give it spirit, not being quite strong enough in itself; it is known by the name of Goa arrack, because chiefly uitd at Goa: there is ano. ther kind of arrack distilled from rice and sugar, and this is the commonest as well as the flrongdl fort, and well known all over the East-Indies a! well as in Europe. The Tartars give the name of ar rack to a sort of brandy distilled from mare's mi k; and an extract of the pihn-tiee is sometimes called 2rrack.,I he inhabitants of tie island of Guam are strong bodied, large limited, and well shaped, with long back hair, f;:iali eyes, high notes, big lips, fern countenances, yet cuurtecuJ and affable; they are cf a copper complexion, and very ingenious in b'hildi.,g Loans, with one tide round and full be! ind, Lust the other side, parallel to which is a log,C1 LU ~YII~II 1 s
of light wood fastened parallel at six or seven feet distance, and so contrived as to prevent the vessel's oversetting, is flat like a wall; they are managed with a broad paddle instead of a rudder, and called outloggers.,Captain Swan wrote an obliging letter and sent a few presents to the governor, who, in return, stored him with hogs, coco nuts, rice, wheaten biscuits and fifty pounds of fine Manila tobacco, with other refreshments this island is under the Spanish jurisdiction, and on the west side of it, are several Indian villages, in each of which are priests who influx the inhabitants in the Christian religion. Here captain Swan being informed by a friar who came on board him by mistake, whom he treated with great! civility that there was pi nty of provisions in the Phi tipping islands; they hoisted sail for them on the 2d of June, and arrived on the 21ft at the island of St. John. The Philippine isles are a rage of large islands, extending from five to nineteen degrees north latitude the chief of them is Luconia, other - wise Manila, which name the capital of the island bears, a large, strongly defended sea-port, town, and a place of great trade; for the Acapulco (hips always touch here to take in-rich Indian commodities brought hither for that end by the Chinese and Portuguese: .for the Spaniards, fearful of hav ing their wealth discovered, permit neither English nor Dutch to carry on any commerce in there sands, though the former often trade underhand from Fort St. Georges John and' Mindanao are the most southern of all there islands, and independent of the. crown of Spain, to which all the rest are in fubjeaion.,St. John is about thirty-eight leagues long and, twenty-four broad in the broadest part, it first, hey away north-northwest, and fouthfloulth.aft, is,,E 5 very
very fertile, and full of small hills. Captain Swan passed by this island, and came to anchor at ten fathom water, in a small bay on the eat side of Mindanao; which i the next in size to Luconia of all these islands, being sixty leagues long and fifty broad; the soil is good, and there are forme stony hills, producing trees not at all known among us. The valleys are well watered, and abound with yams, potatoes, pumpkins, water-melons, rusk-melons, plantains, bonnes, guavas, nut. legs, cloves, betel-nuts, durians, cocos, oranges, &c. but above all, the tree whence sago is gather. ed, it is called by the inhabitants the libby tree, and grows wild in groves, five or six miles long by the water fide this tree is like the cabbage, but not so tall; it has a thin hard bark, and being cut down and split, the pith is taken out, and beat to mummy in a mortar, afterwards it is immersed in water, and strained thro' a cloth, thro' which the water for ces all the meal. substance, leaving only an useless hus; behind, which is thrown awy ; of this sub stance they make cakes, which are a!mofl as good eating as bread, when baked; and on this sort of food the natives of Mindanao live so three or four months in the year. The sago is dried in small bits like comfits, and transported to other parts of the Eafr-Idies; it is an excellent astringent, and laid to be good ainsi fluxes, and now well known ' moor every where in Europe. The plantain tree grows to the height of ten or twelve feet, is about three feet in circumference, nd parings out cf a sucker; it decays, when the fruit, winch is .iai:ecd like a hog's pudding; and as fort and ve!lowv as butter, has arrived at a proper ma purity ; this tree sirs springs up with only two leases; when it is a foot high, another pair of leaves sprout ae ;t and fc on, the i:tave increasing in bigness swell
well as number, to the very top; from the heart of which rites the fruit, in cods of six or seven inches long, growing in clusters, It is a pure pulp, with. out seed or kernel, melts in the mouth like mar malade, and it is as nourishing as it is pleasant. When the tree is cut down, the trunk is split in the middle, and left to dry in the fun; then it ap pears composed of threads of equal bigness, which are not larger than what we call whited-brown thread, and are drawn out by persons whose trade it is, and woven into pieces of cloth seven or eight yards long; which is a little miss when new, the warp and woof being all of one thickness; it soon wears out, and feels a little slimy this island produces another kind of plantain of a lets size, the fruit whereof is tinctured with a black seed, and thought to be a great astringent. The banana seems to be a lesser (species of plan tain, more soft and delicate, but not so luscious; it is belt eaten raw as a fruit, for roasted or boiled it is not very agreeable; it is sometimes mashed into drink, and is taken that way, pleasant enough : they have some good cloves and nutmegs on this island, but they do not much care to improve them, lest they should draw upon themselves the notice of the Dutch, who monopolize the spice trade the betel-nut is larger and rounder than the nutmeg, and grows upon a very high tree, which has no leaves, except near the top. It is much valued while it is )young, being grateful to the stomach, reddening the lips, but dying the teeth black, which it however preserves, and cleanses the gums; it is generally split into quarters, and each quarter being wrapped in the areca leaf, a shrub n.,t unlike the willow, which is first bespread with a iOt paste made of lime, is chewed all over the Las, and it is apt to make the heads of those who arc not used to it, very giddy.,E 6 The
The durian fruit is as large as the pumpkin, the tree that bears it resembles the apple tree. This fruit is not to be eaten till it is quite ripe, at which t-me the top burst open and sends forth a most ex. excellent scent; the pulp, which is very delicious, being also as soft and white as cream, is divided into cells, like the substance of a walnut, and is covered with a thick green rind; it will not keep above a couple of days after being plucked, and in the heart of it is a stone as big as a bean, which is covered with a thin shell that falls off when it is roasted, and then it eats like a chef nut the jack is a fruit of the same species, but yellow and fuller of stones or kernels, that are good eating when roasted. There are many other different fits of fruit produced in those islands, which we have not room to mention herein Mindanao, there ate no beasts of prey, but plenty of horses, bulls, cows, goats, buffaloes, wild hogs, deer, monkies, guanos, lizards, snakes, &c. the woods abound with a very ugly sort of hog, that have great knobs covering their eyes. Here are also lizards, snakes, and scorpions whose slings lie in their tails; and an insee four or five inches long, as thick as a goose-quill, but flat, with a red back and white belly, and a great number of feet; they are called by the English forty legs, by others centipedes, and their sling is worse than tie scorpion's ; they lurk in old houses and dry timbers here is a creature four times as large as the guano, which itrneariv resembles, with a forked tongue; but with the eftcis of its bite our author does not pretend to be acquainted. They have no tame fools but ducks and hens, but abundance of wild, among which are pigeons, turtle-doves, parrots, parroquetoes, bat, as l urge as kites, and an itifil.ty of various kinds of final birds. ]Their,fiib
fib are bonetoes, cavalier., snooks, bremen, mullets, and sea tortoises. Here are good harbours, creeks, and rivers. The weather here, considering its be ing so near the equator, is sufficiently temperate; for it is fanned alternately by the sea and land breezes., From October to May the winds are easterly, with fair weather; from May to October they are westerly, with rains and tempests, which are prodigiously violent, tearing up the largest trees, and laying the whole country under water, so that they are forced to go from house to house in canoes. This bad weather rages in July and August, but abates in September, in which month they have prodigiously heavy fogs, that lash till ten or eleven o'clock in the morning, in spite of the endeavours of the fun, especially if it has rained the preceding eight. This island is divided into several principalities, each governed by its own king, and for the most part speaking in a different dialect. The common religion is Mahometanirlm. The people are in ge neral much alike as to strength, stature, and colour; not large, but well limbed: with little heads, oval faces, flat foreheads, small black eyes, short noses, wide mouths, black teeth, black hair, and bright tawny sins. They never cut their thumb nails, but sometimes scrape them; that of the left-hand is generally the longer. They are active and in genius, but thievish and indolent, not caring to work till hard drove to it by necessities he women are generally better featured than the men, and look well enough at a defiance; but their noses are so very small, that, in some of them, (scarcely any rising between the eyes can be discerns Their hair they wear tied in a knot, hansl;nl down on their neck. T ey have very small feet, and would be fond of the company of w'luv e,, l, It the cultus of the country did not,entiit-ly
entirely discountenance such communication. 'The husbands, however, are not jealous at their being affable to sir angers neither rien nor women wear hoes or stockings; the former have breeches and light frocks, with laced turbans tied in a knot, the ends hanging down; and the latter wear a wide petticoat, with a loose frock thrown over their shoulders, the sleeves of which are longer than their arms, almost too small tot their hands to go through, and sitting in folds about the writ. As soon as a stranger comes ashore, he is recommended to a legally or comrade, it whose house he may ear, drink, and sleep as often as he pleases. paving f .r it a trifling gratuity, and having betel and to atco gratis female friend is also allowed to some strangers, but then it is upon ih Platonic ityfem; and it is not unusual for the wives of the sultan and his no boles, who take greater liberties thin the poorer sort of people, t( inquire of any stranger that they see pass by, whether or no he has got a legally or comrade; and, if he answers in the negative, to send him a present of tobacco and betel as an earnest of their friendthip.,The most extensive and populous nation in the island, is Mindanao, whence it derives its name; the inhabitants of which being near the sea, and entered in commerce, are pretty much civi'ized.,Our author does not pretend to describe all the air-rent people of this island, but confines him sais to a few, of which he had some knowledge. The moll remarkable among these are the Hila nones, who inhabit the inland part of the country and are masters of the gold mines, with the produce whereof they purchase foreign r.nlrtgi- ties they have great plenty of bees-wax, and have prices upon their rivers, with twelve or thirteen,oars
cars a-piece. The houses of the city of Mindanao, which lies on the south-fide of the island, two miles from the sea, near a small river, are built upon polls eighteen or twenty feet high, having but one floor, to which you ascend' by a ladder: but that floor is divided into several rooms: the roof is of palm-leaves. In the space under their house the poorer sort of people keep ducks and hens, and others empty their dirt, where it lies till it is car cried off by the land-flood.,The house of the sultan stands upon one hun died and eighty posts: in the first room of it he has twenty iron carriage-guns, (all the gentlemen keep guns in their houses) it is higher than the other b holdings, and you ascend it by broad flairs instead of a ladder. Near it is a house not raised more than four feet from the ground, wherein the sultan and his council sitting cross-legged, for they have no chairs, give audience to ambassadors and foreign merchants.,Tthe food of the common sort of people is fish, rice, and sago ; the better sort have sometimes fowl ant buffalo, miserably cooked ; and rice is served up with every thing they eat; this they take up in their hands, having no spoons, and cramming uelh large lumps of it into their mouths at a time that they almost choak themselves. They general Iv wash after meals, and pour all their water near the fire-side upon the floor, through which it finks, stagnating underneath and producing maggots, as well as causing a very unsavoury smell: this is fill worse where there are any sick people; for there safe themselves thro' a hole made for that purpose in the floor of their bed-chamber: those who are in health ease themselves in the river, and are very fond of wafting, which is certainly wholsome in there hot countries, more particularly for those who have fluxes; and it is not unusual for the natives,to
to march into the river, there strip themselves, wash their cloaths, put them on in the same spot, and wak about their business Some of the ina. titans (peak-panis ; for the Spaniards had for. minrly some footing among them ; but the Malayan tongue and that of Mindanao are the commoners languages many of their prayers are in Arabic, and they have schools wherein they instruct their children in writing, reading, and the mahometan religion. They are afraid of the Dutch and Spaniards, and have of en ;invited the English to settle among them. Here are few trad.sfolks, except carpenters; and indeed almost every one of them is a carpenter, blacksmith, or goldsmith. They build good ser. viceable ships, both for trade and pleasure, and deal in gold, bees-wax, and tobacco: the latter is much better than that of Manila, which is perhaps the fault of the soil the most common distempers here are fevers, agues, fluxes, and griping of the guts; for all which diseases the country affords sufficient medicines, the use of which is not unknown to those among them who practise in that profession. They are much afflict d with leprofies, which leave large blotches upon the skin after being cured the sultan is despotic, but so poor, that if he knows one of his subject to be worth only twenty dollars, he will borrow them ; nor is the loan to be denied him. Some times indeed he will send out a piece of goods to sell to a particular person, who mull buy it under pain of the monarch's displeasure akilo' he is Cure that his majesty (hould send to demand it the next day. No body is ignorant that their religion allows a plurality of wives, and he who was sultan in Dampier's time had twenty nine who were often to be met in the streets ask ing trifling presents of the falors.,It
It was said he had a daughter about fourteen, who was kept so closely confined, that the was ne ver permitted to see any man, except her father and her uncle. When the sultan goes abroad he is carried in a litter, upon four mens boulders, guard ed by eight or ten soldiers; but he never ventures far from the city, the country being woody and incommodious for-travelling. He sometimes takes pleasure upon the water with his women, in a neat vtfeel built for that purpose, with a cabin made of bembo, and divided into three rooms, in one of which he reposes himself upon a carpet, whereon little pillows are laid for his head. In the second his women attend; and in the third, servants wait with betel and tobacco.,He sometimes makes war with the mountaineers. The weapons with which they fight, on each side, are swords, lances, and a sort of bayonet called a crest, which is always worn by even the meanest sort of people. In the sultan's mosque there is a great drum with one head, which is struck with a large flick, knobbed at the end with cotton, about twenty times, at the twelfth, third, sixth, and ninth hour: this serves instead of a clock they seldom circumcise their children till they are eleven or twelve years of age ; and there is commonly a great number circumcised when the sultan's son, or any young nobleman is to undergo that operation, which is performed with much so lenity, public notice being given of it eight or ten days beforehand, and the men summoned to appear in arms before the mosque. The ceremony is per formed by a mahometan pried, about eleven o'clock, V.ho, holding the foreskin between two flicks, snips it off with a pair of familiars. After this, all the armed men that attend make a ring, into the mid dee of which one of then seps, where he stamps, gnashes his teeth, and handles his arms as if he,was
was engaged with an enemy, hacking and hewing the air like a madman, concluding this strange ceremony with slicing the ground as if he had con, tered his antagonist, and was cutting off his head; after which tricks he retires amidst the acclamations of the people, being pretty heartily fatigued, and is succeeded 'y another of his brethren who acts in the same manner. This diversion lass the bea prt of the day, and is closed by the performance of the ri'-bhe men about court, and at length of the sultan himSelF,, whom all the people afterwards attend to his palace the only music they have in this island are bells without clappers, commonly sixteen in number, in creasing in weight from three to ten pounds, which being struck with a lick, make an uncouth sort of a noise; for if any harmony could be produced from them, it is deadened by being placed upon a table; for they have no notion of hanging them up. Our author observed a set of these in the ge. neral's house, whose son being about to be circum. cited, gave occasion to their being exercised for fe. Yen or eight days together, before the performance of the ceremony. There are women indeed who sing, and not only dance themselves in concert to their own voices, but are joined by other people, the sultan's children not disdaining to take a martin their gambols they are not very firiEt in observing religious ordinances, but keep the Ram:idam or fatling tine, which is in the month of Augur, indifferently well; during this time they fait all day; about fe even in the evening they fall to prayers, which they include with a loud confused invocation of their prophet, wherein all join a chorus, both old and y-unhand afterwards they feast heartily before they go to ieep.,'T'hm,
They have a particular aversion to twines flesh; nor will they permit any person who has touched a hog to enter their houses for several days after wards; yet there is great plenty of these animals running wild about the island, which they often en treated captain Swan's men to destroy, with whom they would not commune, for some days after their hands had been thus defiled the general, Raja Laut, once desired to have a pair of shoes from one of the sailors, but somebody having told him that they were sewed with thread pointed with hogs bristles, he sent them back in a great passion, desiring to have another pair, sewed in Come other manner; and his request being complied with, he expressed himself very well satisfied chap. XII. Captain Swan intends wintering at Mindanao: Mr.,Msre is sent with presents to the Sultan ; is well re Cei'ved: two letters relative to the traffic cf these islands shewn to the captain : the sultans refpeflor the E glijh sewn in his punishing a thief: charge ter of Rja Laut: the hip is brought up the river: theory of John Thicker : they prepare to quit Min dana: meet with various delays thro' the means of Raja Laut; his intentions, diy/inSiion of h's wives : a very surprizing sort of bat sien: the flip in dan. ger if being lost: a prize taken : Manila aeferib- cd:. the pitch and tar tree described; alo the mango and standard grape, nutmegs, &Sc. women hired out as m7nlrflfes; same reajonsfor tolerating this custom: they arrive at Siam.,A P T A IN Swan finding the season of the year far advanced, and the people of the island inclined to be civil to him, imagining there "might be a necessity for slaying here some time, de-determined
termined to make what interest he could with tile sultan, to whom, with that view, he tent Mr. More ashore with three bards of scarlet cloth, and three of silver lace, by way of a present.,Mr. More had an audience granted to him about nine o'clock at night, and was very graciously re. civet, the sultan discoursing for above an hour with him in Spanish, by means of an interpreter, and an excellent supper was provided for him and his people before they returned on board. Captain Swan paid him a visit the day following, and was entertained with tobacco and betel, being also shewn a letter sent to the sultan by the East-India merchants of London, they having at that time had some notion of building a sort here; and another from one captain Goodly, which was directed to any Englishman that should happen to touch upon this island, and contained. instructions relative to trade, but concluded with " Truss none of them ' they are all the es; tace is latin for a candle;",It seems one of the general's men had robbed him of some goods, and retired into'the moon. pains. This fellow was taken: while captain Swan was upon the island, to whom the sultan would have delivered him up to be punished; but captain Swan refusing to exercise any such authority, the sultan, to shew his integrity, ordered him to be bound land and foot to a pot, and exposed all day to the heat of the fun and the flinging of the mufketos.,This generosity of the sultan induced the cap, tain to charge his men to offend none of the na. times, and even to punish his chief mate Mr. Teal for some slight transgression raja Laut, who was nearly related to the roya family, and chief general of Mindanao, had soil difference with the sultan, when captain Swan con ferret with his majesty, therefore he was not present
sent; but the Raja waited for him on his return from court, and treated him and his men very hand comely with boiled rice and fowls. He was a man of quick understanding and lively intellects, shew ed himself well acquainted with Spanifh books, and was fond of conversing with stranger., i hereby he was a good deal humanized, and in good measure acquainted with the European customs. he was very friendly in his advice to captain Swan, to whom he made an offer of his house, and enter gained him and-his men very hospitably during their slay upon the islanders the tempestuous weather was now drawing on, they haled their flip up the river, being assisted by fifty or sixty fishermen, and moored her head and fern, in a hole dug on purpose, where in he was always afloat. Here many citizens came on board of her, and all the men were soon provided with pag allies, though the affability and good humour with which they were treated surprized them extremely. Captain Swan was generally attended with his trumpets at dinner, which gave Lata Laut, who was his legally, a great deal of fatisfac- tion.,During the wet season, the city of Mindanao was a perfect pond, and the floods would often wash down large pieces of timber from the country which would have endangered the vessel, had not great care been taken of her. As soon as the bad weather began to subside, captain Swan hired a warehouse wherein to keep his gods and sails, while the flip was careening. Finding that the general was very fond of dance ing he sent for his violins on shore, and some sailors that could dance English dances, among whom was John Thicker, an illiterate seaman, who had been a good husband of his money, and made a handsome appearance. This man had learnedly
to dance at some of the music-houses in Wrapping, and from his garb and agility the general mistook him for a nobleman; a deception in which he was confirmed by one of the tailors; but it coming to the captain's knowledge, poor Jack was heartily thrashed for the imposition, and the general, who could never afterwards bear the sight of the fellow, was undeceived.,It is surprising what multitudes of worms were bred in the flip's bottom, during her slay in this harbour, out of which, having new sheathed her, they turned on the tenth of December, i686 when they began to fill vater and carry rice on board: in the mean time the general, who had his views in delaying the vessel, kept several of the men on shore hunting with him, under pretence of there being plenty of black cattle upon the island; but Mr. Dampier, who made one in the excursions, says, that in ten days they met but with four cows, none of which they could possibly run down captain Swan had now some notion of quitting the island, with a view, as our author thinks, of taking in a lading of spice in a neighbouring island, which has since fallen into the hands of the Dutch, tho' most of his men expected that he would have gone a privateering; but to this scheme he had an utter aversion, although he carefully concealed it from his men.,The day after christmas-day the general propos ed another hunting-match in search of black cat tee. He was accompanied to the hunting place by five or six Englishmen, and all his wives, with each of whom he lay by turns, and with the mo ther of his eldest son two nights running: she who is queen of the night had a particular respect shewn to her all day, and wears a striped silk handkerchief by way of distinction.
In this hunting expedition they killed but three heifers, though he had promised to flock the flip with beef: however, he and his company made a f gift to get themselves drunk two or three times with a very pleasant extract of rice. Here one of the men happening by chance to hit upon captain Swan's private journal, in which he had noticed the slightest offences of every sailor on board, and was lavish of invectives against threw in gene rat, shewed it to the rest of his comrades, who thereupon determined to depose captain Swan, which they accordingly did, and sailed from the island, leaving him and thirty-fix men on flore, January the 14th, 1687, being determined cruise before Manila, Mr. Read being made captain, and Mr. Teat mailer. On the 3d of February they anchored off an island to the west of the ife of Sebo, lying in latitude nine degrees five minutes, name unknown, where they filled water and scrub bed the flip's bottom. Here they saw neither house, nor sign of inhabitants but a great number of prodigious large bats, fonte of whose wings, when expanded, mae sured from tip to tip eight feet, and were edged with sharp crooked claws, wherewith they clung to any thing on which they chanced to lay hold. In quitting this island they had like to have lost their flip by running upon a rock, which they happily got clear of, being flood, with the loss of only part of their rudder. On the 23d they took a Spanish prize, laden with rice and cotton, about eight leagues from manila. Manila is the chief city of Luconia, an island of which we have already spoken. Is well walled and strongly fortified ; the streets are wide and re gular, and the harbour is capable of containing fe vernal hundred ships. Having set their prisoners ashore
ashore on the island of Laconic, February26th, 1687, they steered with fair weather, the wind east north east, taking with them their prize for the Pifcadores, a cluster of small islands on the coast of Cambodia, in north latitude eight degrees forty minutes, and they came to anchor on the north side of the chief of them, March i3th. The mold of these islands is for the most part deep and black, producing various sorts of trees; from an incision made in the trunk of one sort of which, whose dia. meter was between three and four feet, there di. stilled a clammy juice, that when heated a little, had the virtues of tar, and, kept for some time over the fire, acquired the confidence of pitch, instead whereof it was used with proper success. This island also produces mango's, which are a fruit about the bigness of a small peach, very juicy and pleasant, and of so fragrant a scent as to perfume the air at some distance; when young they are cut in two pieces, and pickled with salt, vinegar, and cloves of garlick.,In this island there grows a strait-bodied tree, about a foot in diameter, laing but few branches, and bearing good red and white grapes, which are of a pleasant vinous table. There is also a ba. start nutmeg grows here, which resembles the true nutmeg very much, but has neither smell nor taste. Here are hogs, lizards, &c. also parrots, p-roquetoes, and a species of wild cocks and hens, Caller and shriller-toned than our dunghill fowls, which they are very like; the flesh of them is white and good the sea shore abounded with limpets, muscles, and green turtle. The inhabitants are frnall but well (hoped, darker complexioned than those of Min dana, having long visages, black hair, little eyes, and white teeth ; they are civil and poor, their chief employment being that of supplying vessel,witt
with the juice of the tar-tree, or transporting it to Cochin-china, whither they also carry a good deal of turtle oil, boiling the fat of the turtle for that purpose. They are very free of their women, whom they brought on board, and permitted the use of them to the sailors for a mere trifle; nor is this a custom peculiar to there sands; it is sect also at Tarquin, Siam, Cochin-china, and several other parts of the East-India, as well as upon the coast of Guinea, where almost every sailor is fur wished, during his slay, with a fine black girl this is certainly a piece of policy in the main; fr should there be any treachery intended against the flip's crew, the girls would certainly take the part of their white paramour, and prove of con miserable service, the supercargoes and masters of ships being matched to the daughters of mandarins and other great men; and there nations being na naturally perfidious, something of this sort is necessary to bind them down to sincerity. They are most of them idolaters,' but with the ceremonies of their religion our author does not pretend to be acquainted ; he imagines that they worship an elephant and an horse, having observed a representation of the former in the inside of a temple on the south of the island, and an image of the latter on the outside: they were both placed with their heads to the southward, and the temple which contained them, standing in a small village, was a mean wooden building. 'The ships remained in this harbour from the 16th of March to the i6th of April, where her bottom was new sheathed, and a fresh suit of sails made for her out of the cloth taken on board the Spanish prize. The people supplied them during their slay with plenty of hogs, turtle, and fruit, for which they gaie them rice in exchange. Having unloaded vol. VI. F the
the prize they had taken at Manila, stored them. selves with water, and taken on board a person who understood the Malayan language, to pilot them to Siam, with which place he pretended to be acquaint. ted, as well as with all the islands lying on the road, they set sail on the 7th of April, and entered the bay of Siam on the 24th, where the pilot, not. withstanding his experience, ran them aground, Here captain Read went ashore among some of the islands, in order to get fish, but returned without success; and it was the ruth day of May before he could reach Pulo Ubi, where he had touched in his passage hither chap. XIII. They arrive at Pulo Condore: fie of the sailors ih,danger of being murdered by treachery: the bent. coal seas of fright: they are forced upon the coat /f China: the inhabitants and natural productions of the I.;aand of St. John described: some advantages Gccr-uir. frcm the smallest of the Chinese women: o-rc:-ain or China-ware, of what it is made: the Chinese great cheats and gamesters: the zeal of a pscr husbandman in behalf cf his favourite paged: tlie,tf/p turns cut of the Island of St. J .hn and meets with a v'olerntform: superstition ofthe sailors: they masai the P:fcadsres islands; the governor behaves to tbtn with great civility: they quit the Pifcadores, andJieer to Gr fE n Island, &c. th: inhabitants, &c, of thief i lands descried: a metal found here very like gold: their hu fcs impregnable forts: their food firing andfil;hy ; their arts and commodities, laws, rely lion, and government. A T Pu!o Ubi they found two vessels at anchor laden with lacker, such as is used in japan, king; one of them was very neat: they were bound,frum
from Champs to Malacca, having forty brisk, foci able, good sailors on board, armed with broad swords, lancets, handsome guns the dir of May they made Pulo Condore: here they found a fall bark at anchor,: to hail which captain Read sent a canoe along-side of her, but charged his men not to venture on board, without having made friends .of them,, lest they should be Malayans, whom he-knew to be particularly treacherous however, his men neglected his injunction, and boarded her without any ceremony, but were soon obliged to retreat, being attacked with drawn credits or bayonets, so that they were obliged to leap into the sea and swim for their lives; and it is remarkable, that one Daniel Wallis swam for some minutes till he was taken up, an exercise which he never before practised, nor. was he ever after able to repeat it.,Captain Read manned two canoes, ii order to be revenged of those people, but they escaped into the woods, having first cut a hole in the flip's bot tom and sunk her june the 4th, 1687, they set sail from this island, intending to cruise off Manila; but the wind com ing about to the south-east, forced them upon the coast of China. June 26th, coming up with the land of St. John's Island, in the province of Can ton, they cast anchor at the north-earl end of-ir. The skirts of this island, which border upon the sea, are for the mols part woody: the soil is in general fertile, and there is good pasturage, with some groves of trees in the inland parts of it.,Here are no wild-fowl, but plenty of tame ducks, cocks, and hens: goats, bullocks, buffaloes, and China hogs abound here. These hogs are all black; they have small heads, (short thick necks, and great bellies sweeping the ground, with very short legs.,F z The
The natives of this island, and indeed the Chi nee in general, recall, raw-boned, straight-bodied men, with long visages, high foreheads, small eyes, aquiline noses, black hair, straggling beards, which they tie up in knots, or curled on each side of their lips in whiskers, and tawny complexions. They formerly used to wear their hair, of which they were very proud; but the Tartars, when they made a conquest of this country, obliged them to slave their heads, reserving only one; lock on their very crown, and this they let grow to a prodigious length, generally platting it, though sometimes they let it flow lose. if a Chinese is found with a head of long hair it is as much as his life is worth, and nrany of them have abandoned their country rather than part with their locks none of them wear any covering upon their heads, but use an unbrclia to shade them from the weather; and if they have but a little way to go, most of 'them make use of a large fan, made either of silk or paper. They wear slippers on their feet, but no stockings, and their covering is a light frock and breeches. The women are obliged to be good house-keepers, for they cannot walk far on account of the smallness of their feet, which are swathed up prodigiously tight in their infancy, to prevent their growing, finally-feet be. ij,. reckoned a great beauty; for this reason they portly stumble about their houses, being obliged to squat down every two or three steps. This is an excellent piece of policy, to prevent their gossipping, air I believe many an honest man in England would be glad, upn the same account, that his wife had fmrii feet, or rather no feet at all. hey cor well at their needles, a;,d are particularly curious in embroidering their floes. The poorer sort c women indeed cannot afford to have little feet, no,l]o0ie
times, nor stockings, for they trudge to market, and do other necessary menial offices for bread the ware, which we particularly distinguish by the name of china, otherwise called porcelain, is said to be made of a certain clay found in the pro vince of Canton. China affords variety of drugs, particularly China-root and tea, which is sold by dishes ready made in the streets. They have aloe plenty of sugar; they are ingenious, cunning, and knavish, and so prodigiously given to gaming, that nothing is commoner for a Chinese than to los. all that he has in the world at play, and then to hang !himself in despair the houses that our author saw upon the island of St. John were poor and low, interspersed with filthy ponds. One day, as seven or eight of the sailors were dining upon a hog, which they had just roasted, a poor husbandman begged a piece of ir, and they accordingly gave it him; after which re palt he beckoned them to follow him into a wood, where he wou'd fain have persuaded them to have bestowed some of their food upon an idol, which flood in a neighbouring temple, whither he guided them; this offering they refused, as well as worshipping the pagoda, to which-he would have induced them by his example the flip weighed anchor from the island of St. John about four in the afternoon, and made what haste they could out to sea, with a view of hav ing sufficient room, as they perceived all imaginable sins of an approaching storm, which overtook them about eleven o'clock at night, and raged with prodigious fierceness till about four in the morning, when the men were cheared with the sight of a corpus sanctum upon the main mast, which they looked upon as a forerunner of good weller; had it been upon deck, the supercilious sailors would have given themselves up for loft.,F 3 The
The corpus sanctum is a finally glittering light, like a far, which generally dances about a flip in hard weather. About eleven o'clock the following day it was a flat calm; after which the storm re. turned with more violence than ever, thereby the flip's crew were induced to bear away for the Pif. adore islands (which lie in twenty-three degrees of north latitude) for they feared the continuance of ill weather during this moon, as she was now near a change.,On the 20th of July they gained sight of the Pifcadores, where they cast anchor between the two easternmost islands, on the weft-fide of which they were extremely surprized to find a large town, .with a fort commanding the harbour; and some of the men who went ashore were carried before the governor, who, being informed they were English, intending to trade, used them in a very friendly manner, telling them, that he would assist them as much as lay in his power, but that they muff not pretend to trade here, it being absolutely forbidden: however, he sent them a small jar of flour, tome cakes of fine bread, about a dozen of good pine-apples, and a few water-melons as a present to the captain they were the next day visited on board by an officer of very grand appearance, who had a loose coat, and breeches of black silk, with black limber boots on his legs, and a plume of black and white feathers, landing upright upon a cap of black silk, which covered his head. He brought on board with him, as a present from the governor, a very fat heifer, two large hogs, four goats, two baskets of flour, twenty large flat cakes of bread, two jars of sam hfu, a sort of arrack made of rice, and fifty five jars of-hoc fhu, a firing pleasant extract of wheat, not unlike mum, of which the seamen are very fond.,In
In return for there articles, captain Read sent the governor a curious Spanish silver-hilted rapier, an English carabine, and a gold-chain, and ordered the nobleman to be saluted with three guns as he went over the flip's side. They left this place on the 29th of July, with the wind at southwest, fleering for some islands, which, by their situation in the maps, are judged to lie between Formosa and Lucania, otherwise Cornelia; for they had not as yet given up their designs upon the Manila flip. They imagined these islands were uninhabited, geographers having hitherto given them no names but, to their great surprise, when they came to an cor on the east-fide of the most northern island, they found three large populous towns, all within one league of the sea.,To one of there islands they gave the name of Orange, in honour of king William III. It is about eight leagues long, and two broad. To another of them, which is four leagues long, and one league and a half wide, Mr. Dampier gave the name of Grafton, in honour of the duke of Grafton, in whose family his wife then lived; and a third they called Monmouth island, in honour of the duke of Monmouth. These three were the largest of the number. One of the others they called Goat Island, because it abounded with that animal; and the other they called Blxfiee, on account of a pleasant liquor, bearing that name, which they drank there orange island, though the largest of the whole parcel, is not inhabited; but there are peep e enough both on Monmouth and Grafton islands. The na times are copper-coloured, short and squat, with round faces, low foreheads, thick eye-brows, hazle eyes, and black thick hair, which they-crop short quite round their heads, scarcely permitting it to cover their ears. The men have no sort of cloath-,F4 ins
ing, but a jacket made of plantain-leaf, which is as rough as a bear f-in ; and some of them have inv a small clout to cover their nakedne!s.,There are mines in these islands of a pale yet. low metal, u which has fore semblance of gold; but in time it fades and lofts much of its lustre: they make rings and other ornaments of it, which they rub over with a paste of red (lay, then throw them into a quick file, here they let them remain till they are red hot ; in which condition they fling them into Vater to cool, then rub off the passe, and they appear of the most beautiful lustre their houses are but low, made with nlall posts, v'aattled with boughs; they have a fire-place at ene end, and boards near it, whereon they lie to sleep on the ground. They live together in Small villages, on the sides or tops of hills, the rouses rising above one another upon such precipices that they ate obliged to ascend them by ladders, which being drawn up there is no possibility of climbing to attack them; and to prevent their being assaulted from above, they chute a si raison, the back of which forms a steep perpendicular to the sea. The street to every row of houses huns parallel to the tops of the houses of the row beneath, and the ladder by which they ascend is placed in the middle of the street: thelc precipices are certainly natural; for it is impossible fur them ever to have been able to cut such ridges in the rock, although they are very ingenious, un tcrfitnding the uCe of iron, working it themselves, hand building very neat boats. The women manage the affairs of husbandry, and the men generally employ themselves in fish. ing. in their food they are far from being cleanly; tor it was usual for them to beg the paunches of such hgs and goats as were killed by the ships crew, the filth of which the emptied into a pot,of
of water, and boiled it to a confidence; ser which they eat it with raw fill, taking it up in. handfuls (for they are strangers to the use of spoons) as other Indians do rice: they are also fond of eat ing goat skins, the digestion of which one would. imagine required the stomach of an ostrich.; for these they would also beg, and having singed off their hair, and parched them well upon the coals,. they would gnaw them to the best of their power. They also gathered a kind of locusts which infests them about August, and these they scorch over the fire in a pan till the legs and wings drop off, and the bodies become red like a lobster their common drink is water, and they have a liquor, something like English beer both in taste and colour, made of the sugarcane boiled, and mixt with some small black berries :- this, which, is generally fit to drink in three or four days, is what they call basle; a throng and. intoxicating: beverage.,Our author does not pretend to be acquainted: with their language; it is, says he, neither like the. Malayan, nor the Chinese, the latter being spoken through the teeth. Bullawar,. which is the com mon word for gold. among all the Indians of the Philippine islands, &c. is the name by which they distinguish the yellow metal we have already men tioned.,They have no arms but a. wooden lance, headed with iron; and they wear a coat of mail made of huffilo-flin, reaching down to the calves of their legs, (but without sleeves) as thick as a board I his skin and iron seem to be the only commodity in use among them that are not of their own growth;. perhaps they have them from Luconma.,T hey do not seem to have any religion or govern ment, but compose a kind of aristocracy, every mani being of equal power, and pretending to no au-,F i authority,.
authority, except in his own family: yet that they have some sort of laws, appears from their having buried a young man alive, during our author's slay, as he supposes, for theft: they are meek, obliging, and good humoured, neither quarrelling among themselves, nor being rude to strangers: they pass the bullawar as money, having no coin, and part. ring with it in grains by guess when the flip first anchored here, the natives were so familiar, that above a hundred boats came round them at once, the players of which made no scruple of coming aboard; and during all the time that he staid here, they supplied her plentifully with goats and hogs, disposing of a good fat goat for an old iron hoop, and an hog of fourscore pounds Weight for two or three pounds of iron, besides sufficient quantities of yams, potatoes, and basle, for old nails, spikes and leaden bullets.,On the 25th of August our traders or buccaneers were driven out to sea by a violent storm, and it was the gift of October before they could get back again to the Basle island, from whence they had been forced. The many crosses that the men had met with, diverted them from all thoughts of the Manila flip, and al1'were now more inclined toa homeward voyage, than to any other enterprise; a resolution in which this last torn had confirmed them; however, they were induced, by the per seasons of captain Read, who doubtless intended cruising in the Red-sea, to Rand for Cape Camorin.,CHAP
C H A P. XIV. They sailor Cape Comorin; come to anchor near tAh,ijlnd of Mindanao; receive intelligence relating to the captain and his people; the melancholy end of that gentleman: cockles of a prodigious size: three water Shouts seen; the manner of transformation described they arrive at Button island; thefultan treats them very hospitably: the town of Callafufung described ; they come to anchor on the coast of New Holland; he foil, proud, and inhabitants described; their wretchedness and fluidity: Damper in danger of being turned afore here; they leave this country and sail fjr Trips; take a fall prize; they come to the Nicobar islands: our author is at his own desire left with sion other men upon the island of Ni cobar. OCTOBER the 3d, I687, they quitted these islands, with fair weather, and the wind at west, intending to sail among the spice islands on their way to the Cape. On the '6th of the same month they came to an anchor between a couple of islands, lying to the south-east of Mindanao, where they haled their flip shore to clean her bottom, and made for her a new pump, with a bow-sprit, fore yard, and fore-top mat there they received intelligence concerning cap tain Swan and the thirty-fix men whom they had left behind with him at Mindanao: they were in formed that he had fought against the mountaineers under Raja Laut, with good success, and was to gather with his men, in great reputation at the sultans court. Our author would fain have per faded rome of the men to submit again to his command, as they were now so near him; but the,F 6 scheme
scheme was discovered to captain Read, who pre. vented ital oft of Swan's men, in some time after, got off in different (hips; but he himself going on board a Dutch vessel was purposely overset and knocked on the head by the natives; and there are some grounds to surest, that this murder was perpetrated by order of Raja Laut, as well for the sake of some gold whereof the captain was possessed, and which by his death fell into the hands of the general, as in revenge for a few slighting expressions which he had imprudently uttered captain Read left there islands November 2, I687, fleering a south-east coast. On the 22d, !anding three leagues to the southward of the fl1nd es Celebes, they perceived a large prove with Eixtv men in her, attended by six smaller ones, whom they endeavoured, to no purpose, to allure en board, by shewing them Dutch colours. On this coast they found cockles of so large a size, that the meat of one of them served seven or eight people; here also grew a sort of vine, the leaves of which, pounded with hoo's lard, composed an ex excellent f!lve.,In three degrees south latitude, they discovered three water-spouts, it being then the 30th of No member: their are very dangerous to shipping, tho' the bad consequences are sometimes prevented by. firing great guns at them, in order to break them, The) are formed first upon the surface of the sea, the water of which, after whirling about a long time in t'.e circumference of perhaps one hundred paces, flies up in a pyramidical form to a cloud which crowns it, and along with which it drives upon the water until the fusion being spent, the spout separates from the cloud, and the water tumbles again into te sea, to the m nicest destruCtion of any thing beneath it.,De'
December 6, captain Read. came to anchor in a harbour on the east side of the island of Button, lying iln south latitude four degrees, fifty-four mi notes. The island is high, flat, and woody, about twenty five leagues long and ten broad. The in habitants are neat, tight, small, and well-shaped, in manners, and colour like those of Mindanao.; they are governed by a sultan, who, hearing that the (hip was English, came on board, attended by some of his nobles, and three of his sans, assuring captain Read, that he was at liberty to traffic with his fubjeas for what he pleased' and that he would serve him to the utmost of his power the captain. ordered him a salute of five guns on his coming on board, and. he went on shore un der the discharge of five more. Captain Read vi sited him in his palace, which was a very neat house, by invitation, the following day: he was received in a ground-floor covered with mats, to which he passed through a lane of forty naked fol tiers armed with lances, and was entertained with tobacco, betel, and young cocoa nuts. The sultan some time after made him a present of two he-goats, and a boy, each.of whose jaws were lined with two rows of teeth: potatoes and rice were in great plenty upon this island, as were also cockades, and very curious coloured. paro que toes the cockade has a bunch of feathers upon his head like a crown; it is snow white, with.the shape and bill of a parrot. The sultan's residence w s in a-large town called Callafufung, situ acted on the top of a small hill, about a league from the place of anchoring, surrounded with a firing stone wall; and the houses, which appeared very near, were built upon posts captain Read staid here till the 2tli, but broke his cable and lost his anchor, it.being hooked ina rock
a rock when they attempted to weigh: they got clear of the shoals, which lie in great plenty about there islands, on the 16th, fleering south and south-east, the wind veering wefifouth-weft to west, and north northwest, the weather being very indifferently the 20th they passed by the island of Omba, in eight degrees twenty minutes latitude. In Come maps 'tis called Partake. Here they saw thick smoaks by day and large fires by night there is a good town on the north side of this island conti. guous to the sea, but the weather would not per mit them to stand in for it.,On the 27th, being clear of all the islands, they steered their course for New Holland, which land 'hey fell in with January the 4th, 1688, in latitude sixteen degrees fifty minutes south: they ran twelve leagues along the shore before they could find a proper place to anchor in ; and the following day, they discovered a good harbour with hard sand and clean ground, in twenty-nine fathom water, where they anchored two miles from the shore new Holland is a very large trad of land, join. ing, in the opinion of Dampier, neither to Asia, Africa, nor America, yet he does not pretend to determine whether it is an island, or the main continent the land is dry and sandy, producing many sorts of trees, not growing together very thick, but having under them pretty long grass: here they saw neither fruit nor berries, and the most re marketable tree that they noticed was one, from whence there (entailed a gum, which upon corn parison, ap-eared to have all the qualities of dragoon bloodshed only sign of any animal that they could possibly remark was a track something like that of a maftiffdog.,Of
Of fowls there were very few, and small birds! were scarce, there being none bigger than a thrush;, arid if you except the manatee and turtle, both which are extraordinarily Lhy, the sea seems to be almost destitute of fish the inhabitants have neither boats nor iron; they are certainly the ghost miserable generation upon earth; their only food being a thrall fortes fish which is brought in with every tide, and left in stone piers reeled upon the shore for that purpose at low water: whatever they catch is di vide equally among the family, old and young, and sometimes they have a few cockles, mussels, and periwinkles: when'.thefe fail them 'which thro' the providence feature very seldom happens, they run the hazard of starving: they have no water but what is got out of wells, which mull be dug very deep they are tall, slender, and straight-bodied, with large heads, round foreheads, and bushy eye brows: they have neither house, garment, grain, fruit, pulse, roots, eggs, nor any'fort of birds or beasts: the flies here are so extremely trouble some, that you run a hazard of their getting into your mouth, nose, or eyes, unless you flop up the passages; for which reason they commonly keep their eyes ha's shut, and are obliged to hold up their hands when they look at any thing, as if they examined the sky they have bottle noses, thick lips, wide mouths, black woolly hair, and black skins like the negroes of Guinea: they have no beards, nor is there one feature in their faces that can possibly be called agreeable; the two fore-teeth of the upper jaw a e wanting both in men and women: whether they are removed by way of ornament, or that it be a natural defeat, Mr. Dampier does not pretend to ascertain: they have so much modesty as to co-,I ver
ver the oddities with a handful of long grass, or three or four green boughs stuck in a girdle made of the bark of a tree, which they fasten about their waifs: they have no beds but the damp earth, no roofs but the wide extended heavens; nor does there seem to be any particular connexion between man and woman, but they rather copulate promiscuously.,To worship of any sort they seem to be fran. gers, at least as far as our author could perceive. They have a kind of wooden sword, and a lance sharpened at one end, wherewith they defend themselves against such enemies as may presume to disturb them in catching their fil ; for it is not to be supposed that they have any other; their language is entirely guttural; nor could any of captain Read's company understand one word that they uttered: they were terribly frightened at the first appearance of the flip's crew, but that fear vanished on finding that they intended them no harm. Some of the tailors hoped they could have prevailed upon them, by giving them cloaths, assist them in carrying water to their canoes ; but this intention they could by no manner of signs be brought to understand, but grinned at each other like monkeys, and very fairly laid down.the cloaths again, after they had examined them for a while with teeming amazement while they remained here, Mr. Dampier was threatened to be turned afore, for endeavouring to pertuadrt some of the men to go off to an English factory. He had long harboured this design, but now gave over al: thoughts of it, till a more convenient opportunity fl ot.ld offer march the 12th, they left the coast of New Holland, with a fair wind at north north-west, fleering for Cape Comorin. On :he 28th, they fell in with a mal woody island, in ten degree? thirty,minutes
minutes south latitude, where they took in fresh water, land crabs, and flore of boobies april the 12th, they came to the island of Tries, about fifteen leagues welt of Sumatra; not above a mile in circumference, and so very low, that the tide flows clear over it at flood; but it bears great plenty of coco nuts, with which they flocked them selves, as well as with force sith and two young ali gators. They left this place on the i8th, and on the 29th took a prove at anchor, on board of which were four men, whom captain Read' kept prisoners, seizing their cargo, which consisted of coco nuts and oil, and finking the vessel. This precaution he took to prevent Dampier and some others from making their escape.,On the 4th of May, they had sight of the Ni cobar islands, which lie forty leagues north-west of the ife of Sumatra. The chief commodities of there islands are ambergrease and fruit, which are brought aboard of such ships as come into the road by the natives in their proves, to whom all white na tions are alike may the 6th, they came to an anchor on the west side of the island of Nicobar, properly so called, in eight fathom water. It lies in seven degrees thirty minutes north latitude. The soil of it is fertile, well watered, and forms a pretty land. scope when seen from the sea. Among various sorts of trees which flourish here, are plenty of cocos, and melary ;the former has been sus anciently described already : the latter is a fruit of a light green colour, with a tough, smooth rind;i it is as large as the bread-fruit, and eats something like an apple. The natives are tall and well limb ed, of a dark copper-colour complexion, with long visages, black eyes, agreeable features, and 1-nk black hair.,The
The women have no hair on their eye-brows: perhaps they pluck it off, reckoning the want of it ornamental. The men are naked, having only a piece of cloth wrapt round their waifs, and swathed two or three times about their thighs, Their language seems to be peculiar to themselves, and Dampier could not discover, whether they had any form of religion among them. Their house, very curiously thatched with palmetto leaves, are raised upon posts, eight feet from the ground; and they consist but of one room, which is about eight feet high.,We don't find that they have any appearance of government among them; they seem to be all upon an equal footing, and live scattered round the island, there being seldom more than four or five houses together. They have no yams, pot. toes, or rice, but a few plantains, and some small hogs; they had also cocks and hens, but tho' every house had at least two or three canoes belonging to it, and drawn ashore opposite to it, yet their fishery is not very great. Their canoes will hold twenty or thirty men, and they use oars as we do, sitting upon benches of split bamboo. Here the captain filled water, and ordered the men to heel the flip, in order to clean her here our author got leave of captain Read to go ashore with his chest and bedding: the place where be was landed had but two houses, the master of one of which, by signs, invited Dampier to enter; 'intimating that if he did not, he might be exposed to tome danger from the wild beasts of the wood, in the darkness of the night. There came two other men on shore with him, viz. Mr. Hal, and :Ir. Ambrose, they having long before intended t take the first opportunity of escaping from captain Read.,MI
Mr. Coppinger the surgeon, who was an irishman would have fain followed their example; but he was forcibly prevented. The pilot that they brought from Pulo Condore, and the four men that had been taken off Sumatra, in the prove belonging to Chin, were also left upon the island. The pilot, who was a Portuguese, was a useful member of this community, as he understood the Malayan, and other Indian tongues.,C H A P. XV. 71he meet with civil usage on this island; are in dan ger of being drowned in a canoe purchased for an ax; their moi useful hands anmoJf frightened si-on them; after some disputes with the inhabitants they are supplied with provisions, andJfland out to sea ; are tossed by storm, and at las arrived at Sumatra in a most discreet condition: they gain the English savory at Achenn: our author's various employ ments in this country; he escapes on board an English hip lying in the read: an account of the painted prince. A BOUT twelve o'clock at night, May the 6th,,captain Read got under sail, and then our malcontents lay down to seep, which they did not chute to do before; left captain Read might have revoked his leave, and sent some of his men to force them again on board. Perhaps he would never have permitted them to have gone inshore, had he imagined they would have got off this island so well as they afterwards did. Early in the morning, Dampier was visited by his host, attended by four or five of his friends, bringing with him a large calabash of toddy.,He was at first surprized to see the number of his guess so much increased, but appeared after-wards
wards well enough satisfied, and bought of them a canoe for an ax, which one of the men had solent knowing it to be a good commodity among the In. diana, as he came over the flip's side. This ca noe was as large as a wherry, but, alas ! they had no sooner got aboard with all their things, but it overset with them, and it took them up three days to dry their papers and other things which were contained in their chests: however, with the affiance of the Achennnn tailors, they soon set her to rights again, fitting her out with a good mash, and balance-logs, or out-lingers, which we have before described; and then they steered for the east-fide of the island, being followed by the ina. giants in eight or ten canoes, whom Mr. Hall, by firing a gun over their heads, scared away; fearing that such a large company might have increased the price of provisions upon them this action had like to have been detrimental two ways; firs, it frightened their moi useful hands, the Achennnn men, so very much, that they laced out of the canoe, and it was some time be. fore they were re-convinced, no harm was intend ed them; moreover, it intimidated the inhabitants from bringing provisions to them, which they used to purchase for old rags, and small strips of cloth the inhabitants now appeared in great nun boers every where, to oppose their landing; howl ever, in a day or two, Dampier and Mr. Hall leapt on more in the sight of a large number of them, with whom they soon made peace, by Shaking hands; and were as plentifully supplied with provision as before. It confined only of leaves of mclory, the pulp of which, being separated from the rhine and the core, and compressed to gather will keep six or seven days ; besides some cocos, and a few hens. There, with-twelve large,coco
Ceo nutshells, and two or three. bamboos, all which together held about eight gallons of wa ter, were their only sea-flore, wherewith they left. the island Nicobar, on the 15th of May, 1688, directing their course towards Achennnnn.,On the i8th, the sky began to be cloudy, and-a hallo or circle gathering about the fun, which in fallible prognosticates ill weather, made them fearful of a form. However, on the seth in the morning, after having been terribly buffeted by a tempest of wind, thunder, lightning, and rain, which it was wonderful their vessel ever outlived, they were surprized with one of their Achennnn men crying out, as they thought, Pulo away; an expression common among the English tailors when they are rowing; but, by his pointing to land, which just then appeared, they found he meant Puloway, which is an island lying on the north-west end of Sumatra I should have before observed to you, that Pulo, all along this coast, is the common word for island; so that Puloway is no more than the island of Way.,The next morning they found thatched had mistaken for, instead of its being the' island of Way, it proved to be the golden mountain of Sumatra. They entered the mouth of a river called Passage Jonca, and landed at a small fishing-town bearing the tame name ; and by this time they were so fa' fatigued, that they were all in high fevers, and so very weak, that they were scarcely able to standish news of their arrival brought several of the francis or noblemen to see them, who being informed of their adventures, ordered a large hioue to be provided for them, and sent them plenty of cocos, plantains, fowls, eggs, fish, and rice; but finding themselves far from recovering their healths, they were induced to make the belt of their way to Achennnn, where there is an Englifl,faltory;
factory; for which purpose, they were provided with a prove, which carried them to the appointed place in three days.,In this city, they were received with great hot. vitality by the chief magistrate; and Mr. Dennis Drifcol, an Irishman, in the service of the EaR India company, treated them in a very friendly manner, and served as an interpreter between them and the fhebander, or chief magiffrate.,Here our author became acquainted with captain Dowry, who had a lip lying in the road, and would have importuned our author to have failed with him to Persia, in quality of boatswain; but he was intimidated from accepting the proposal by the badness of the weather, and his own tfateof healthier. Hall and Mr. Ambrose were entered also on board the same ship, and the latter, whose sir name our author does not remember, for Ambrose was his Christian name, died soon after. At length, Dampier engaged with one captain Weldon, with whom he made several trading voyages in this country, for upwards of fifteen months, and as towards he entered himself as gunner to an English factory on the west coast of Bencoolen; in which employment he remained five months, and then quitted it from a dislike to the governor. He flayed upon this coast till the year Ice, when he embarked for England, on board the Defence, captain Heath commander, lying in the Bencoolen road : and on this occasion was obliged to make his escape by creeping thro' one of the port-holes of the fort, the governor having revoked a promise he had made of permitting him to depart. He brought off his journal, and rome of his most valuable papers.,It was the 2d of January when he got on board, but the 25th before the flip set sail. At sea, they lost above thirty of their men, by a ditfemper,arising
arising frosts the banners of the water which they had on board; it growing very hot, and being tinctured black, lying in the hold amongst the pepper; which certainly contributed to make it unwholsome, Captain Heath indeed behaved very well on board, for he not only kept watch constantly himself, but supplied his men with some of his own tamarinds, and other things that contributed greatly to refresh them. The beginning of April, they reached the Cape of Good Hope, where the sick were sent on shore, and supplied with beef, mutton, and other refreshments here also our author went on shore with a painted prince, who had been given to him by one Mr. Moody, and whom he afterwards sold in the river Thames, because he was short of money the person who purchased him, carried him about for a shew, and he died at Oxford of the small-pox. His name was Joel, and he was born in an sand called Means, where the people wear gold rings in their ears and about their legs, and are curiously painted in various sorts of figures; well proportioned, but rather monsters of imagina tion, than copies of nature. The breast, thighs, and (shoulders of this prince, who was carried on shore for the sake of his health, were particularly ornamented in this manners H AP.
C H A P XVI. 27,} Cape of Good Hope described: a account V'it,wld ass of the Cape: why the inhabitants of ti Cape are called'Hottentcts: their nqilinejs: Jlme account of the situation, i;r, commodities, tuJiols, and woznen of the iJfrlar of St. Helena; our author arrives in England: .Is voyage concluded.,HE Cape of Good Hope is the utmost born, cary of the southern continent of Africa; it lies in thirty-four degrees and thirty-minutes, and is one of the mildest climates in the world. The Table Mountain is a very remarkable piece of high land, seen at a vast defiance at lea, and being a pro. per land-mark for hips. The soil is good, and very grateful to those that till it, abounding with wheat, barley, and pease; and they have apples, pears, quinces, pomegranates of .an extraordinary bigness, and large vineyards which thrive extreme ly well, yielding a firing, pleasant, sweet wines a pale colour.,It abounds with sheep, goats, hogs, cows, and horses; but the sheep are the best sort of meat, as the pasturage is dry and short, which agrees well with them. Here are laid to be plenty of wild bells ; among which may be reckoned a very beau tissue animal, cal ed a wild ass, the body of which is curiously streaked black and white. Among their birds are found ducks, common fowls, and ostriches, a single egg of one of which is a good meal for two men: they are said to lay them in the sand, where they are hatched by the heat of the fun.,The tea is well foret with sins, and one of a species smaller than a herring, which eats well pick-sled,
led. The Dutch have a good sort here, and a town strongly walled in, where their East India company have a good house, and a garden of pro vicious extent, which is said to be one of the finest in the world. The Dutch that are fettled here get a good deal of money by the entertainment of strangers; and a man must pay at the rate of a dollar a day for his eating, betides eighteen slivers for a bottle of wine, which can be sold no where but at one licensed house, under prodigious penal ties. There is another house licensed to sell mum and beer, and a third for brandy and tobacco. ' the complexion of the natives, who are called Hottentots on account of their Hammering, is between that of the inhabitants of Guinea and New Holland.,They rub themselves over with foot and grease, instead of painting, and wrap sheep gets about their legs when they go upon a journey, some of which they wear eight or twelve months; when, if they chance to be hungry, they will take them off and eat them. They dress their hair with mal shells, and wear a sheep-skin cloak, which infects them much with lice; but this consequence is no great hardship upon them, for they feem.particularly *fond of housing themselves. Their houses are long poles stuck circularly in the ground, and joined.to- gather on the top, interwoven with grass, rushes, and pieces of hide, with a door three or four feet high, into which they creep upon all fours, and this door is Stopt up when the wind happens to blow full into it, another opening being made in the opposite quarter. They have no beds to lie on, but mix together round a great fire, kindled in the middle of the hours, the smoke of which has no particular vent, but makes the belt of its way through the crannies vol. VI. G They
They don't appear to have any sort of a religious worship, unless we give the name of religious rite, to their dancing very oddly, and making a great noise at the time of the new and full moon. In short, take them all in all, they are the nastiness, the meanest, and the most indolent people upon the face of the earth captain Heath's flip was so thinned by sickness, that he was obliged to accept of the service of some Dutch sailors who deferred to him privately from other ships, some for the sake of profit, and some for the sake of seeing Europe sooner than they would otherwise have done they left this place on the 23d of May, and ar. rived at St.'Helena, in which is a governor, who ha a good house and the command of a sort, on the 20th of June. The air is wholesome, and the place abounds with potatoes, yams, plantains, and bona. noes. They have also plenty of hogs, bullocks, cocks, hens, geese, and turkies. It is famous for producing medicinal herbs, which are very efficacy vous in such disorders as are contracted by sailors a long voyage the women of this island are well shaped, and not ugly, very fond of English sailors, with whom they are ready enough to quit their native soil captain Heath left this place July the 2d, 1691, in company with the Princess Ann, the James and Mary, and the Josiah; the latter of there fhipsleft them in bad weather, before they came in fights England, but joined them again near the Land'sEnd,September i6th, 16oI, they anchored in the Downs, where they found feveralEnglifh and Dutch ships preparing to cruise against the French, with whom we were then at war, and from whom 0ou adventurers thought themselves happy to hav escaped. A Ver ~~A Toy
A VO Y A G E round the World by,Dr. JOHN FRANCIS GEMELLI, undertaken in the Year 1693.,CH A P. I. The character of Gemelli: he sets out on his voyage and reaches Malta: account of that island, and of the knights of St. John. T T-his celebrated traveller was a native of,Naples, and a doctor of the civil law, who finding himself uneasy at home, in consequence of a dangerous distemper, and some family disturbances, resolved to gratify that curio city which seems to have predominated in his disposition and actually surrounded the globe with incredible fortitude and perseverance. Nor was his probity inferior to his resolution: he describes every thing he saw with the most scrupulous precision; and though he appears to have been a little tinctured with superstition, which rendered him too apt to believe some ridiculous reports of knavish or credulous priests and missionaries, all the particulars which fell under his own observation are related with equal accuracy and candor.,In a word, Gemelli's journal is universally esteemed one of the most authentic and belt details now ex tant, whether we consider the variety of the mat ter, or the importance of the information it con-,G 2 pains;
pains; and what renders it the more valuable is that he followed a different route from all the cir. cum navigators who circled the terraqueous globe bv sea, and sailed from the coast of Mexico to the Philippine Islands; whereas the doctor travelled chiefly by landward after having visited the courts of the Grand Signior, the Sophy of Perth, the Gr-at Mogul, and the emperor of China, took the Welt Indies in his return, embarking at Ma nile for the town of Acapulco, a very tedious and terrible voyage, never attempted but by the un. null (hip, and almost altogether unknown to Eu. ropeans.,Gemelli having taken leave of' his friends at Naples, embarked on Saturday, June 13th, for Calabria; and after a run of fifty miles landed at Amalfi, a town said to have been founded in the year 829, by certain Roman families, who in their voyage to Constantinople were driven into this place by stress of weather, and liking the situation, made a settlement without delay. Be that as it may; the town is famous for having produced Flavio Gioja, who invented the use of the loadstone in Europe; and the cathedral is much visited by devotees, who go thither to see the body of the apostle St. An. drew, brought from Conflantinople.,On Monday the r 5th, the felucca continued her voyage, and proceeding forty miles, anchored at Li cosa, formerly Leucofia. Next day they ran six and thirty miles, as far as Palinuro. On the ruth, after having sailed forty miles, they put in at Scale; from thence on the seth advanced as far as Paolo, the birth-place of St. Francis, founder of the Mi. rims. On Saturday they reached the town of Pis' zo, seated on a rock, from whence they enjoyed a delightful prospect of the Calabria shore; and on Monday, after a run of thirty miles, arrived at Trope, which likewise basis a lofty situations stand
where the nobility aft in public affairs-in a destine body. On Wednesday they crossed the bay, and arriving at Gioja, the doctor removed to a finally town at a mile's distance from the sea, where he was met by his brother from Ridicina, who con dusted him to his own house, where he made pro vision for his voyage, and left his will sealed up, amusing his relations with saying, his intention was only to visit the Holy Land and return immediately, although he had already resolved in his own mind to travel as far as China.,Having parted with his brother in a most pathetic and affectionate manner, he went to Palma on July 6th, and next disembarked for Messina, at which place he arrived that same night the city of Messina, formerly called Zanili, is situated in the eastern part of Sicily, extending along the shore, embellished with stately palaces uniformly built, and accommodated with an excel lent harbour, which is guarded by the castle Salvador the citadel, and other firing sorts. Here is an archbishop's see and an academy. The churches are beautiful, the buildings magnificent, the streets spacious, and the women witty and amiable. The air is temperate, the soil fruitful, and the sea abounds with excellent finn. The city is plentiful ly furnished with all the conveniences, and even delicacies of life; and the neighbourhood of Cala brit not only contributes to this abundance, but likewise affords a most delightful prospect of its fertile plains gemelli's first care on his arrival at this city, was to bespeak a passage to Malta, in a tartan, on board of which he immediately (hipped his baggage; and next day, while he was employed in translating an affair of moment, the vessel sailed with all his equi page for Ali, in order to load with wine i so that,G3 he
he was fain to embark in a felucca bound' for Au. gufla.,They sailed with a fair wind through the famous Streights of Mcfina, feasting their eyes on each side with stately castles and pleasant villages, un ti! they approached All, where they saw at anchor the tartan in which Gemelli had embarked his bag. gage; but the mailer of the felucca persuading him it was not the same, he made no further enquiry, and they proceeded for Augusta, passing by Taurus mina, a royal city seated on a mountain; and in their ccrurfe the surveyed the ruins of Catania, which was lately destroyed by a dreadful eruption from trout ,Etna. Leaving behind the cities of Lentni and Ca.slolntini, they arrived at Augusta, formerly siphon, to which place the knights of St. John retired after the loss of Rhodes, and be. fore they were fettled in Malta. This town was likewise overthrown by the aft earthquake ; so that the poor inhabitants were now obliged to live in cottages, and the castle, though one of the strongest in Sicily, received irreparable damage. The city was built on the side of an hill, and had a good harbour well defended by several sorts from hence the doctor set sail in another vessel, and in the evening enjoyed the sight of Syracuse, commodiously situated, and defended by a sort and castle here, perceiving a flip's boat rowing towards them, they flood to their arms, in the apprehension of her belonging to Turkish pyrates, tho' in effect she appertained to the town of Trajan. Next day they beheld ths ruins of Not, which was de. polished by the last earthquake; at night lay at anchor at Palais, where Gemelli laid in salt fill for his voyage, and found a Maltese galliot and brigantine that guard the channel, though he could hear no tidings of the tartan.,On
On Saturday isti, the contrary wind obliged them to land on the shore of Spaccafurno, five and fifty miles from Syracuse: but, on Sunday, after a run of forty miles they reached Brazetto, a town on the beach of S-anta Croce, from whence the doctor repaired to Scoglietti, in quest of a vessel to carry him to:iMalta. Accordingly, on Monday 13th, he went on board of a small bark, to cross that narrow sea of sixty miles; but next day be ing becalmed', and perceiving a tartan's boat mak ing towards them, they concluded they-were cor fairs, and forsaking their vessel, endeavoured to escape in the boat. The strangers seeing them fly, defiled from pursuing, and afterwards the Silicious discovering them to be Maltese, returned to their bark, and a fresh breeze springing up in the evening? they arrived in the port of Malta early on Wed nefday morning the inland of Malta was given to the knights of St. John of Jerusalem by the Emperor Charles V. It extends two and twenty miles from east to west; in some places the breadth amounts to twelve, and the circuit of the whole to sixty. The city lies in thirty-five degrees and forty minutes of north fern latitude, and enjoys an excellent climate, with a commodious harbour, the mouth of which is well defended by the castle of St. Elms, and a great many fortifications, which render it inaccessible. The city is situated on a very high rock, fortified with precipices towards the sea, as well as with im pregnable works of art; and on the land-side, the whole compass extending three miles, is strengthen ed with particular sorts and batteries, well furnish, ed with cannon, besides those mounted on' the wall, along which there is a delightful walk and coach road from the harbour to the Lazaretto. This last has likewise a very safe and commodious port, where (hips may ride in.fafety close. under a,G 4 rock,
reck, though it is now set apart for those that come from the Levant. The town is beautiful, norwich. handing its situation on a barren rock, because art has exerted itself to render it delightful. It exhibits a fine prospect from the sea, improved from the unevenness of the ground, as it extends from north to south in eight long straight well-paved streets, which are crossed by other two, running from eat to west; of three gates, the molt frequented is that called Molto, in the ditch of which there is a large orchard of lemons and oranges for the use of the great malter; the other is the Land Gate; and the third that of the Lazaretto, from which run two deep ditches and a double wall un ermined as far as the harbour besides the great island, which is (hoped like a tortoise, there is another called Pomona, ten miles in circumference, defended by a sort; and a third named Goo, the most beautiful of all, provided also with a fort, commanded by a knight of the order these three islands contain about sixty thousand souls, in thirty towns and villages, the inhabitants being generally fierce and warlike, of Moorish ex traction: as for the knights, who are subject to his catholic majesty, they have the privilege of be ing governors of the castles St. Elms and St. An gell, excluding all other nations, and their govern ment lasts two years gemelli lodged in the monastery of the Fran scans, where he was civilly entertained, and on Thursday i6th had an opportunity of seeing the gland matter at the church of St. John. He sat on the right-hand side of the altar, on a throne of purple velvet with gold fringes, placed within the rails of the high altar, and enclosed with bannisters of fine marble; opposite to him sixteen pages far en benches covered with red cloth, adorned with,silver
silver lace, while two others waited behind his chair. On the church floor, four steps below their chief, the great crosses occupied benches covered with leather, with desks before them, to the num ber of thirty-two: on each side and along the middle, sat ten other ancient knights, and below them were places for the rest the great master was clad in a robe of thin black silk, with a cap behind, and over this was a sort cassock distinguished by the cross of the order. His name was Adrian Vignacourt, a Frenchman, of a middling stature, lively countenance, and healthy constitution, though in the seventy-sixth year of his age. He is allowed six thousand ducats for his table, twenty thousand as a temporal prince, and as much more as makes up the sum of sixty thousand out of vacant commanderies and cufloms.,On Friday 7th, the tartan with Gemelli's bag gage arrived, and delivered him from the apprehension of ending his travels at Malta, and after dinner he visited the grand mailer's palace. The fables, containing fifty horses and mules, are on each side just within the east gate; and farther on is the garden: this leads into another court, in which are two opposite doors to the apartments, those on the left, being dedicated to privacy, and. the others on the right, used for the exercise of pub hic functions. The hall is very large, richly hung with crimson damask, and adorned with a canopy of the same stuff fringed with gold. In this, and other two apartments, are painted the exploits and atchievements of the order. The whole palace is surrounded with curious iron balconies: on the well side is a large square with a stately fountain in the middle ; and another on the south, where the court of chancery is kept, together with the exchequer for daily payment and receipt i but, t,G 5 treasure
reserved for public occasions is secured in a little tower of the grand master's palace the Maltese women wear veils after the Moorilh fashion, with a kind of caps made of pasteboard, to defend their faces from the fun, and are generally agreeable in their persons and deportment their common money is a brass coin of imaginary value, six pieces of which amount to a sec. chine, or eight Shillings sterling; so that here a false coiner would have immense profit.,In Malta there is a table kept for the poor knights, but the house is very little frequented, because the al lowanceisfrnail; nevertheless, it is goodly future, and lately embellished by the great master Caraffa, Our traveller having viewed all the churches, the PolveriRa, which is a palace belonging to the order, and another called Camaritta, a place of retreat, where the devout knights live in community for a yearly stipend, and employ themselves in pious ex excises, his next excursion was to the hospitalis which the sick are served in plate, by the knights in person; and on Sunday seth he saw the great crosses at high mass, which was celebrated with great solemnity. After service he went to see the great mailer dine, at a table placed in the great hall near the canopy, under which flood his chair of crimson velvet, while four others of leather were set at the lower end, occupied by his own nephew, the grand prior of Hungary, the great cross Cavaritta of Trajan and the great steward Caraffa.,The grand master was served apart in gilt plate, and his meat carved by three knights cover ed: he drank to the health of all the knights, who attended the table in great numbers, and seemed inferior to no prince of Europe in dignity and mag nficence.,This noble order at first resided in Old Malta, as towards in the castle St, Angelo, where they with-flood
flood: a terrible siege from the whole power of the Ottoman fleet in the year Ice, but removed their abode to the present situation, which they chose for the conveniency of its excellent quarries, by which they have been enabled to build such a beau tissue city.,C H A P. II. The author's voyage to Egypt. Tartan being sent by the merchants of Mar A filles, with advice to the French lips lying. at Alexandria, Cyprus, and Tripoli of Syria, that they might venture out to sea, as three French men of war were then cruising in the Mediterranean, to defend the trade from the Dutch privateers, she put in at Malta in her voyage, and Gemelli went, on board of this vessel, after having provided all necessaries, and agreed to give twelve crowns for, his passage to Alexandria. They sailed on Theft day 21it, ran along the coast of Candia on. Saturday and Sunday, and the master of the tartan being headstrong and unexperienced, overshot the - port about fifty miles, and finding it impracticable to return with the wind in his teeth, was, after, much tacking. obliged to anchor eighteen miles be yond. Alexandria, at a small castle called Bichier, provided with cannon, and a garrison of two hun died Turks, and surrounded by the huts of some. miserable Arabs, vwo are Co much devoted to idle ness and sloth, that rather than work, they chuse to live in the utmost wretchedness, though there is a plentiful fishery, and the country is f fitful; in consequence of that poverty and abundance, fish and fruit are sold extremely cheap, but there is nor. a bit of flsih in their market,,G6 Though
Though it was late on Wednesday when they landed, the master set out for Alexandria with let terms to the French consul, the Aga of the castle hay. ing provided him with a janissary to be his guard and conductor, for the consideration of three pieces of eight and an half. They accordingly departed upon an horse and an ass; but next day when they returned, the guide demanded as much more as the stipulated sum, which he had received before. hand; and a dispute arising, was by the Jew of the customhouse carried before the Aga, who knavish decided it in favour of his own countryman.,Our author, alarmed at this extortion, which is 'very common in Turky, would not venture to land his baggage among such thieves, and the tartan being ordered to proceed for Cyprus, resolved to transport it on board of another vessel bound for Alexandria, where he knew there was a christian consul: but the contrary wind would not permit him to execute this intention; so that he was for cet to send his trunks on there, and put himself in the power of the Jew that was customer, who, contrary to his expedition, received him with great hospitality, lodging and boarding him in his owa house, for half a piece of eight a day.,On Saturday, August i, he departed in a germa or boat for Alexandria, where he arrived in the afternoon; and his baggage being searched and the duty paid, went to lodge at the hospitium of St Catherine, belonging to the Franciscan fathers of the Holy Land.,Alexandria, or (as the Turks call it) Scanderia, was built by Alexander the Great, three hundred and twenty-two wears before the birth of Christ; it is situated on the shore of the Mediterranean, in the latitude of thirty degrees and fifty-eight mi-Dnntes, and in a sandy soil. The old city being Elmofl altogether abandoned serves only as a re-,fervoil
fervour of rain water for the use of the new town, which, though stretching along shore, about two miles in length, is but ill peopled, and in all pro ability would have been entirely deserted on account of its unhealthy air, had not the conveniency of its harbour and central situation for trade invited thither the commerce of the Mediterranean and In tian ocean, from which last, merchandise is conveniently conveyed by the Red Sea, and the land carriage is very commodious for all the produce of Egypt. It was formerly a city of great extent, and reduced to its present miserable condition by becoming subject to different matters, and sustain. ing sundry terrible sieges, especially that by An dominus Caracalla, who filled it with blood and carnage; but its ancient magnificence is Still visible in the remains of many obelisks, columns and pub hic struCtures, which are to be seen even at this day gemelli having viewed the bazar or market, which is poorly furnished, and the fortifications, which are mean and paultry, happened to ap proach the mosque, where he was assaulted by Moorilh children, armed with stones and knives, who fell upon him with such fury, that he was fain to throw some money among them, and the mob increasing, ran as fast as he could to the house of the French consul, which he reached with the loss of his periwig; so dangerous it is for strangers to gratify their curiosity in any place under the Turk. ifh government, without the guard of a janissary, who performs the double office of guide and pro teoor.,The door therefore, by the consul's advice, hired one of there soldiers for his security, and went to see Pompey's pillar, which sands on a riling ground without the city walls. This is a column of red marble, one entire piece, except the,capital,
capital, pedestal, and base, on which are carved certain Egyptian hieroglyphics. The height a. mounts to one hundred feet, the circumference of the shaft to five and twenty, and that of the bare and pedestal to fourscore and five. From hence he repaired to those two piles near the port, dis. extinguished by the name of Cleopatra's Pyramids, one of which is demolished. They are of a mixed marble, inscribed on all sides with hieroglyphics, seeming to be about thirty feet in circumference at the base. and about fifty in height marc Anthony Tambourin, the French confiu], insisting upon Gemelli's lodging at his house, he quitted the monastery of the Franciscans, and found his account in his removal to a place where he loved plentifully among European merchants, and was particularly regaled with a kind of delicious birds, resembling the beccaficos of Italy. All the French gentlemen treated him with the utmost po itenrefs and hospitality, and understanding that he travelled in order to gratify his curiosity, as well as with a view of communicating his peregrinations to the public, they passed him upon the lurks 2s a native of France, that he might enjoy a par titular privilege, in consequence of w lIich a French man pays no more than three per cent. duty at the customhouse, while all other nations are taxed at twenty.,'Ihey likewise persuaded him to wear the dress. of the country, by which he would in travelling avoid the hatred of the Arabs, particularly of the Eeduines, a sei cf people who feed their flocks and remove their tents occasionally for the conveniency of paflure.,Thus habited, he on Friday August 7th, em barked in a small faique for Bichier, along with a Capigi porter to the bashaw of Cairo, who, by means of a Jew's interpretation, gave him to un-understand
demand he would gladly accompany him, and give him a (hare of all his own conveniences; nay, he even made him a tender of money. This was no more than a Turkilh'compliment void of sincerity, for which, however, the doctor made suitable ac acknowledgment, especially as he considered the mussulman as a person who could protect him from the knavery and insults of the villainous Arabs. After a run of three hours they arrived at Bichier; but, as there was no inn at that place, they were obliged to lie in a small germa or boat which the Capigi hired for a piece of eight next day they proceeded on their voyage to wards Cairo, but they had not sailed above four miles when the wind freshening, the Turk was seized with consternation, and invited on their return to Bichier, notwithstanding the remonstrances of the bey or matter, who assured him he had nothing to fear. The Turks and Arabs in general are afraid of sailing thro' the mouth of the Nile, which they call Bogafi, insomuch that it is become proverbial to say, he who fears not Bogafi fears not God.,In consequence of this unreasonable apprehension they resolved to go partly by land and partly by water, and the capigi having compelled the master of the boat to return the money he had re civet, hired another to carry them as far as the village of Ethco. In their passage to this place, which lies at the distance of fifteen miles from Bi click, the boat had well nigh perished, and actual yi loll her mast at the mouth of the bay of'Media, Which is formed by an inlet of the Tea, that runs ntenty miles into the land. People who travel by land, cross this bay in a small boat, and here the Turks usually exact so much a head by way of toll; but our author was screened from this oppression ky the authority of the capigi.,From
From Ethco they travelled fifteen miles upon asses, through a sandy soil, producing nothing but palm-trees, which the natives put to sundry uses: of the leaves they make baskets, of the twigs are formed cages and lattices, the wood furnishes beams for houses, and the fruit serv's them for food. When they arrived at Rofeto, the capigi con. duce Gemelli with great ceremony to the house of the French vice consul, and next day came with an interpreter to demand money for the great ser. vices he had done him on the road. The doctor thought his demand exorbitant, and made some difficulty of complying with it, but the Turk swore by Alla (croaking his beard with great solemnity) that he would not part with his due, and Gemelli was fain to submit; especially as the vice consul told him that it was a common practice among those people to pillage the Franks on such frivolous pretences, and that the injured Christians could have no redress.,Rc'feto, or as the Turks call it, Rachet, was formerly Cleopatra's favourite place of abode, situ acted on the best branch of the Nile, for the con penance of merchandise from the Mediterranean to Alexandria. This city stands about five miles from the sea, guarded by a firing castle at the mouth of the river yet it resembles a village rather than a city; for it is altogether open, without wall or ditch, extending about six miles in circumference, and inhabited by about eighty thousand souls, a number five times as great as that contained in Alexandria. It Is surrounded by tolerable orchards, and plantations of cassa trees; and the Bazar be ing light and airy, appears covered with vines pro. during delicious grapes, W which are here in great plenty.,Gemeili having paid the vice consul for his board and made the neceltry provision, embarked with servant
servant on Monday the both for Grand Cairo, on board of a great boat with three masts, called a nleafchi, where he found a German Franciscan fa ther, and above an hundred passengers; but per sons of any quality or consideration, for a trifle more than the common fare, are accommodated with a kind of separate cabin having the advantage of a fresh gale, they sailed bristly along shore, in sight of agreeable houses and fruitful fields, particularly in the island formed by the two arms of the river, between Rosetta and Damietta, which is counted the most fertile spot in all Egypt. This wonderful river, called in the Abyssinian language Abanchi, or Father of Rivers, is said to proceed from two lakes in the kingdom ofGoyama, subjeCt to the emperor of Abyssinia, whence crossing that empire, Ethiopia, and other countries, it runs down, to fertilize Egypt, and Joses itself in the Mediterranean.,The arm on which they sailed was about a quarter of an Italian mile in breadth, and the stream glided so gently, that with two sails they ran seven or eight miles an hour against the current, in the midst of pleasant meads and populous villages. The com mon sustenance of the Turks confined of ill baked bread, garlick, onions, and sour curds. Poultry, though very cheap in that country, is utterly banished from their tables, and a little boiled mutton is count ed an extraordinary dainty. Tho' the capigi lived entirely on this kind of'cheer, a janissary, his com panton, having spied a bottle of wine belonging to our author, importuned him for a draught so often that it was soon reduced to a finally quantity, and in all probability would have been quite ex haunted by the thirty mussulman, had not the owner in his own defence, ordered his servant to fill it up with water, by which dilution the wine was so much weakened as to become disagreeableness
to the palate of the Turk, who then rejected it with signs of loathing after a run of sixty miles, the wind falling, nine of the people went ashore and towed the boat along, leaving behind Salmon, famous for the ex potation of corn, Albici, Nahari, with other finally villages and islands formed bLy the river, where the bnd is plowed with oxen and buffaloes, the flesh of which is eaten by the Arabs, though their chief dainty is mutton, remarkable for the large size, fat. ness, and tail which often weighs several pounds. Byway of bread, these Mahometanss eat a small kind of grain that tastes like chesnuts, and this they mix with parched fetches. On the right-hand side of the river they saw abundance of trees like those that bear the white mulberry, which produce a fruit near the trunk resembling the medlar, tho' sweet tarred; it is called giummi, or Pharaoh's fig; but, in order to render them eatable, the Arabs slash them before they are-ripe, that the unhealthy juice may run out and be expended they flopped at the village of Errand, where the bey or master insisted upon performing the ce ceremonies of their great festival called Agiram Bai. ram, and while the Turks were thus employed, Gemelli in strolling about the place, perceived great heap of earth called Natrou, dug' out of a neighbouring hill, to be chipped off for several parts of Christendom, where it is used for taking out trains, and whitening cloth. On Wednesday 12th they continued their voyage, in. sight of villa ages on both sides, and enjoyed a distant view of a great city called Menus, on the right-hand side, at the distance of six miles from the river, and at night arrived at Bulac, which is an halting-place for all boats that come from Upper Egypt, Alexandria and Rofetto.,Next
Next day gemelli going ashore, beheld the whole country overflowed by-the river, like a sea. On the 17th day of August, when it swelled to its greatest height, the bashaw, after having ordered the solemnity to be announced by the public crier, goes, attended by a great retinue, to perform the ceremony of cutting the bank of a small branch of the Nile, called Salic, that the water may over slow the lands in the neighbourhood of New Cairo, and rejoice the hearts of the Arabs, who form a good or bad presage of their harvest, from the rising of the waters at the Nilofcope or measure, which is set up in an sand near Old Cairo. This annual inundation fattens the soil to such a degree, that the farmers are often obliged to qualify it with sand; and if they were not extremely slothful, they might reap two crops every year. From Bulac, the doctor and his servant set out up n asses, for New Cairo, where he lodged at the houle of the Franciscans, and found the people celebrating the feast of Bairam, which had been kept the preceding day in the villages. Great numbers repaired to the burying-places with lights, to visit the tombs of their deceased friends: in the public places, they offered oxen, gelt goats, lambs, and fowls, as sacrifices to their prophet; which, however, they themselves devoured, while the multitude was diverted with seeing eight children turning round upon a wheel gemelli, having dined with the fathers, de parted in company of a friar, for Old Cairo, where he likewise lodged with. the Franciscans; and that same day visited the Grecian church, built within the fort, where he saw the arm of St. George. The castle is a dark prison, and the church a very indifferent edifice, said to have belonged to the Copies or antient inhabitants of the'country, the wretched remains of whom are frill to be seen in particular
particular district adjoining to Old Cairo, where they have five churches and a patriarch of their own, and lead an austere and miserable life, sup. ported by nothing better than bread and water, herbs and pulse.,Old Cairo, situated on the right hand side of the branch of the Nile, is almost wholly depopulated, and its ruins, which are very extensive, exhibit melancholy prospect. Joseph's granaries are about a mile in circuit, enclosed by a wall, and divided into fourteen large squares, which are frill rep. stories for corn, although uncovered, because very little or no rain falls in this part of Egypt. Here too is shewn the place where Moses was found floating in a basket on the Nile, near the royal palace, where at present there is a mofquewith gardens and pleasant houses; and in this neigh boyhood is the sand where they measure the in. crease of the Nile. Along the banks, there is al ways a number of boats laden with excellent corn, brought from the kingdom of Send, belonging to an Arabian prince, tributary to the grand signior. On the opposite side of the river is the city of Ciza, famous for the pleasant houses built by the Mameluke princes; and in the circumjacent villa ages, the Arabs hatch eggs, by means of an artificial stove, turning them frequently during the space of fourteen days, in which the incubation is performed gemelli went under the concur of some of the Franciscan fathers, to see the holy house, in which the blessed Virgin dwelt seven years with the infant Jesus, when Joseph fled with them into Egypt, in order to avoid the cruelty of Herod. It stands within the church of the Copies, who shew an house in the wall where Mary lay with her child; together with a stone table, at which they ate: and they likewise produce a large piece of woodland
and a nail, which they affirm to be part of Noah's ark. At the altar of the church, mass is said in the old Egyptian language, of which, however, they are very ignorant; and hard by is a font, in form of a well, where the male children are bap tied, forty days, and the females, fourscore, after the birth; and both males and-females are after wards circumcised gemelli, in his return-from this excursion, fur vexed the ruins of Old Cairo, which are very ex tensive, observed the aqueducts that convey the water of the Nile into the bashaw's castle over lofty arches, for the space of three miles, and in his way he met part of the banfaw's retinue going to pay their compliments to some principal person at Old Cairo; they were preceded by four drums and two devises, with their conical caps; but, the moft.-re- markable part of the procession was a wanton, or sort of monk half naked, with a ragged cap and tattered garments, surrounded by such a multitude of people who came to express their veneration for him, that the doctor found it almost impracticable to pass forward, and the occasion inspired the people with such a degree of zeal and enthusiasm that one of the fathers who accompanied our author was insulted, reviled, and even beaten, and Gemelli himself narrowly escaped with his life, by means of a maronite christian who with held an Arab from striking him with a long fiaff.,During this turkish festival, a great number of Arabian chiefs were seen prancing along the streets on horseback, gaily caparisoned, though they were obliged to alight when met by any officer of justice the janissaries were employed in exercising their arms in their different districts, and abundance of vagabonds, with bottles of rose water, sprinkle the passengers, in order to extort money; but none of these spectacles surprized our authoress
so much as did eight women in masks, who in pas sing along screamed horribly, as if they had been possessed; and this ceremony was it seems the in. citation to a wedding cairo, otherwise called Memphis, is situated near the banks of the Nile, and was once a flourishing city that boasted cliffs and sultans of its own, but hath declined for two centuries past, during which it hath continued under the dominion of the Turkish emperors, who send thither a bashaw to rule, in the nature of a viceroy: besides the op. pression under which it groans from such despotic governors, the city has suffered greatly from the plague, which sweeps off vast numbers of the ina. giants, though the missionaries and European mer chants affirmed to Gemelli that it still contained five millions of souls. This account, however, the doctor could not help thinking exaggerated, especially as he encircled the whole city, accompanied by a janissary, in two hours and an half on ass back; so that he guessed the whole circuit amount ed to about ten miles, for the Egyptian asses goat a great pace: nevertheless, it must be remember ed, that the streets are very numerous, the houses crouded with inhabitants, and that Balach, Old Cairo, and the suburbs, were not included in this compass. 'The houses are built without elegance, of mud and ill-burned bricks; but the town may be called a magazine of valuable commodities brought thither by the Persians, especially along the canal of Salis; and there is such plenty all sorts of provisions, that a man may furnish out an enter attainment for the value of six-pence. When a per son of substance dies, a number of cows, Sheep, and lambs are killed, and the flesh distributed to the poor, and there the Turks give charity to the fowls of heaven, insomuch that there is a certain quantity of corn daily exposed upon a tower fors thee
use of birds, being the legacy of a humane : !tian O(k nhlii being invited by Mr. Maillet the French colblul to live at his house, accepted the courte vous offer , and on Saturday tht 6th, went with twj French fathers, the Jewish interpreter, and the janissary, to see the castle, which looks like a little city, three or four miles in circumference; but the towers are decayed, the walls ruined in many places, and the fortifications so ill adapted for defence against the modern way of attack, that it would soon be reduced by a regular siege. Hav ing surveyed the divan, which is furnished with a large cupola at top, and taken a view of every thing remarkable. except the tower where the treasury is kept, and the apartments belonging to the young aga of the janissaries, which they were not permitted to see, they for a zecchine obtained leave of the bashaw to go and entertain themselves with a sight of joseph's well, which is of a pro vicious depth, cut out of the' solid rock. The water is first raised from the bottom by a wheel drawn by oxen into a cistern made for that pur pose, about one hundred and forty feet below the surface of the earth; from thence it is brought up to the mouth of the well in earthen vessels, by the same method of conveyance; and the descent to the first landing-place is by long tfeps hewn out of the rock, secured by a thin wall six inches in thicknesses their return they met a bier covered with a green pall, supported at the corners by four Ma mahometan priests, carrying as many banners of the same colour, and this was the pall of a tomb erected to one of their cantons or holy men, which they carried in procession, to excite the charity of the people.,Then
Then they went to see the palace of Ibrahim Beg, who being at that time commander in Candia, they could not see all the apartments; but were courteously received by his steward, who treated them with coffee,' sherbet, and tobacco in the gal. very, where there was a sofa covered with masts, and fine carpets. Here they enjoyed the cool breeze with a prospect of the garden, planted with vines, cypress, palm, and orange trees. The rooms were spacious, and curiously painted and gilt after the fashion of the country; and they saw a number of deer and wild goats grazing in the court, which was very extensive from hence they repaired to the palace of the admiral, who is superintendent of the caravan of Mecca, consisting of about threescore thousand pilgrims; an employment worth an hundred thou. sand crowns, as the grand signior allows him a thousand aeschines a day while the journey lapis. His house seemed to be more magnificent than the other, but, as he was abroad, they were not per mitted to see the apartments next day, Gemelli went four leagues eastward of Cairo, to view an obelisk standing in a place called the Garden of Balsam, where there is a fountain, at which the virgin Mary is said to have rested when she came to Egypt with the infant Jesus, un. der the shade of a great tree, which was long pre served as a place of devotion. This obelisk, which is one of the few remains of the ancient Hierapolis, appears to be eight and fifty feet high, and the sides are covered with hieroglyphics. On his re turn from this excursion, he saw the entry of the Aga Hamet, who brought a present of boots, saddle, and breeches, from the grand signior to the bashaw, as an intimation that he would soon be recalled from his government. The messenger was first received in a garden without the city, and,the
the chiaga or lieutenant of the bashaw, who fur rifled him with necessaries for making his public entrance. He was preceded by drums, trumpets, and two hundred soldiers well mounted then - came two persons, one of whom carried the scimitar and the other was loaded with a bason co vexed with silk, that contained the breeches and the boots: there were followed by an hundred janissaries on foot, well clad in green and red cloath, with large wide caps hanging down on their backs, and supported on the forehead by a silver-plate curiously wrought: then appeared the aga carrying the emperor's letter on his breast, accompanied by the chiaga, and the procession was closed by two-troops of horse, the officers of which had clubs tipt with illver, hanging at their backs. The cavalcade proceeded to the castle, where the bashaw waited to receive the aga, and thus the solemnity ended.,On Tuesday the i8th, the doctor rode upon an ass about the bazars, where he found rich shops, and, in his way, met with a man turned of forty, stark naked, with a long beard, surrounded by a croud of people, who worshipped him as a faint; and a number of women, who lay under the re proach of barrenness, came and kissed those parts of the wanton which decency ought to have con cealed.,;Next day, our author joined a company of Frenchmen who had made a party to go and see the Pyramids, and they set out for Bulac on twelve good ails: there they took boar, as the land was all o0erl.cwed by the Nile, and before non, ar rived at those vast piles of stone which stand about twelve miles from Cairo. The-doctor and some of the company went up to the top of the first pyramid by the steps, which, towards the base, are four feet high, and three in breadth, running vol. VI. H quite
quite round, and growing narrower towards the summit, from which they viewed a vast extent of country, or rather of sandy desart. Having de scended with much difficulty, they repaired to another which is called Pharaoh's tomb, the en trance to which is through a stole half filled up with sand: this great pyramid, surrounded with two hundred and eight stone-steps, said to have been formerly cased with marble, is five hundred and twenty feet high; the extent of every side amounts to six hundred and eighty-two feet, and the top, consisting of twelve fiat stones, is a square of six teen feet eight inches, so that a firing arm can hardly shoot an arrow from this fulnmit, beyond the extremity of the base. From the entrance, which they mounted by sixteen ft ps, there is a Fzved way sraduai:y descending, three feet and an half high, nearly aj much in breadth, and seventy six feet long; at the end of this thoroughfare they found an open space about ten feet wide, from which another path of equal length is continued in an easy ascent; and then divides into two ways, one upon a level twelve paces in length, ending in a room, and the other, six feet four inches wide, slanting upwards for the space of one hundred and sixty-two feet, to a gallery that leads into an apartment two and thirty feet long, sixteen broad, and nineteen high; with a plain roof confiding of nine stones. Within this room, which is about one third of the w-y up the pyramid, they saw an empty sepulchre of white, red, and black marble, above seven feet long, three feet broad, and more than three feet high, in which the body of Pharaoh is said to have been depositcd.,Between the two aforementioned paths, is a wail cr pit, in which a perform, being lowered down fe twenty-seven feet, finds a square hole or inlet to a stall cavern, cut out of the soft stone to the wef,3 War
ward of the pyramid; this cavern is the mouth of an oblique path, above two feet broad, and two feet and an half high, that descends for one hun died and twenty-three feet, until the passage is stopped up with sand and rubbish. It is said to be part of a subterranean path to the inside of a colossal head of an idol that flood in the neighbourhood of the pyramid, and is till visible from the shoulders upwards; the head and neck being six and twenty feet high, and the distance from the ear to the chin not less than fifteen. The third pyramid, though not of equal dimensions with the other two, is feared on a rock, and built entirely of white stone, the breadth of the sides of the base being equal to the perpendicular elevation; and the distance be tween the pyramids not exceeding two hundred paces.,In the evening, the company repaired to the pyramids of the mummies, standing to the north wards about eight miles from the others, and at the same distance from Cairo, where they passed the night in tents pitched for their accommo- dation.,They entered the firs' of the eleven pyramid,; which is very large, on the north-fide, at about one fourth part of its height, though not in the mid idle of the side, or horizontal line, and descended by a conveyance three feet and an half wide, four feet high, and two hundred and sixty-seven feet long, ending in a vaulted room above seven and twenty feet long, and eleven in breadth, from which there ista level communication of nine feet, leading into another lofty arched apartment with a' square window on the weft-end above four and' twenty feet from the floor; from this room there is a bad, horizontal thorough-fare about six feet: thigh, and above thirteen feet long, into a third spacious vaulted room, the floor of which is of solids 2 rock:
rock: two other pyramids of there eleven are nearly as large as this we have described, though inaccef. bible, because they have no external steps by which o they may be ascended: the remaining eight are smaller and of different workmanship, and some of s them built of stones of such a prodigious magna. tide, that one can hardly conceive how they could be raised and managed by the art of man whatever methods were used for this purpose, it is generally agreed that those vast structures were monuments of regal pride, intended as repositories for the bodies of the Egyptian monarchs, raised,. perhaps, in consequence of a prevailing notion, that the soul would not quit her mansion, while the body should remain uncorrupted; a belief which likewise introduced the art and custom of, embalming the dead. This operation was per. formed on persons of distinction, by ripping up. the belly with a Â£harp stone, cleansing the bowels with wine or spirituous liquors, filling the guts and cavities with myrrh,. cassia, and other aroma tic powders; laving the carcase thus prepared in nitre for the term of seventy days, at the ex. portion of which, they washed it again, and rolled it up in linen rollers, smeared with a sort of gum that refined putrefaction. These bodies they placed in coffins of black mulberry-tree, coarsely hewed to the size and shape of the person, as they are still found in the caves where they were depot. fited.,Besides the pyramid already mentioned, there are above thirty scattered about the desart, which the company did not visit, though they resolved to see the sepulchres of the mummies, which are con ceased by the covetous Arabs, who will not discover them to Europeans under an exorbitant price gemelli and his companions having payed t.ctuity pieces of eight to those knavish barbarians),xvere
were conducted by them to the mouth of a pit two and forty feet in depth, which they descended by putting their feet in holes on each side of the 'soft rock, made for, that purpose; at the bottom, they found a room twenty feet square, and all around it, tombs of persons of distinction; for the bodies of servants always lay along upon. the floor. They saw but two ordinary mummies lying in thick mulberry-coffins, together with rome little figures in chalk, and an embalmed skull which the doctor carried away. The bodies lie sometimes in these chests, anfAometimnes in tomb stones, cut according to their shapes and dimensions and as a plate of gold, worth two pistoles, is generally found under the tongue of each, the Arabs deface the mummy in quest of this treasure. Small idols are often seen at the head, and the figures of birds at the feet; while the walls are co vexed with hieroglyphics, which, perhaps, served' as epitaphs to the defunct having examined this subterranean dormitory, the company went to see the labyrinth where birds were formerly buried: they descended by a narrow passage, to an. apartment, from which they crept through a hole into different allies or spaces, large enough to allow a man to walk upright; and, on each side, they saw the urns in which the bodies of the birds were deposited, though now they contain nothing but duff. These spaces are cut out of a nitrous stone, and running several miles under ground, like a city, are distinguished by the denomination of a labyrinth sat right they returned to Cairo, and, by the way, beheld the Turkish soldiers exercising, to the number of four thousAnd horsemen, who rode full speed by two and two, darting their lances with great dexterity. Hali, who was at this time ba saw, came every Wednesday and Saturday to seeth 3 them
them from the balcony of a great man's house, accompanied by a- number of begs and princes with their slaves and attendants, tolerably well cloathed. There are eighteen begs at Cairo, who have revenues amounting to five hundred thousand crowns each, and these they spend in horses and liveries, to maintain the magnificence of the Otto man empire.,CeH A P. III. Thb a:r.ir 'cctir;u.s his travels to Jerufajnk. N Ot,. withstanding the solicitations of the French,consul, who invited Gemelli to stay smith him during the seat of St. Lewis, he took leave cf his generous hoff, and on Friday 2r, depart. ing for Bala, met the funeral of some principal Turk, with a great turban on his'coffin preceded by singing priests, and followed by female mourn hers mounted on asses. He embarked upon the Nile for Damietta, and rowing down that branch of the river which is more shallow than the other, leading to Rofeto, through a well inhabited count try, arrived at the city on Saturday morning, after a run of a hundred and eight miles; taking up his lodgings with a Maronite, procurator of the religious house at Cairo, to whom he was recommended by the father president, because here wa! neither monastery, factory, or French consul.,Damiata, situated on the banks of the Nile, ir thirty degrees of latitude, is but small, and ill in' habited, on account of the wholesomeness, the air. In extent, it may be about half a mil square, and has a great trade, owing to the convey nancy of the harbour. At a little distance to th eastward, cn the top of Mount Cassius, is thorn
tomb of Pompey, repaired and beautified by the emperor Adrian.,Gemelli being informed that there was a vessel at the mouth of the river, bound for Jaffa or Joppa, took a passage in her without delay, and laid ina flock of provision for the voyage; particularly the rows of dried mullets, which are in this place ex excellent and sold very cheap: but, as he passed the customhouse, the janissary demanded a zecchine for his permission to embark; however, the doc tor pleading the privilege of a 'Frenchman, he was satisfied with a third pert of a crown ; and even this, the doctor would not have payed, had not his Jewish interpreter refused to speak in his behalf, for fear of being bastinado. As the vessel was at the distance of four miles down the river, and this Hebrew would not upon any account accompany him thither; he was fain to trust himself with watermen whom he did not Un derfland, and was imposed upon by a blackamoor of Cuba, who compelled him to pay two Dutch crowns before he would allow him to proceed i notwithstanding the remonstrances of Gemelli,, who threatened to write an account of this extortion to the consul of Cairo, that he might com plain of him to the bashaw. The cheating Ethiopian persisted in his demand, saying, he should first pay, and then he might write at pleasure; and our traveller was obliged to comply. Indeed one would imagine it was part of the religion of those barbarians, to fleece strangers; for, the watermen exalted more than they had agreed to take: arid the rais or marner of the vests, perceiving the doctor's eagerness to go on board, would not sussex him to enter the bark until he had agreed to give twine as much as is usually paid for the passage; so that patience is as necessary as any other sort of,H 4 provision
provision that can be laid in, by a man who travels through this country setting fail-with a favourable wind in the even ing of Sunday the 23d, they coasted along a fa;ddy desart county, and next night, after a run of a hundred miles, arrived in the port of Java, where Gemelli, having paid a zecchine and a half to the rais, for himself and his servant, went to lodge at the house of a Jew interpreter, who en. pertains al-those Christians that go to the Holy Land. This is the sea-port of Palestine, lying in thirty-two degrees of latitude, supposed to have been built beare the flood, b, Japhet the son of Noah. Here the materials for building Solomon's temple were landed; this is the spot where thean- tents feign Andromeda was exposed to the fta monsieur; and where St. Peter raised Habita from the dead. While the doÃ³Â¢or flayed in this place, waiting for the caravan of camels from Rama, a it ,.c-ij norm arching, destroyed almost all the vest fois in the ha cur, and, among the rest, the bark in which he had arrived; though the men were saved by fwimming-afhore.,On Wednesday the 26th, he mounted an ass, and fitting out with a snail caravan of thirty ca ness, travelling about ten miles through a plain country, partly tilled and partly planted with olives, and, by break of day, arrived at Rama, where he was received by the superior of the ca pushing of Jerusalem, who signified his arrival to the father guardian, that he might obtain his per mission to go to Jerufa em.,Rama, remarkable for the sepulchre of Rachel, and the slaughter of the innocents, is a small open town inhabited by Arabs, Jews, and Christians; 2nd the adjacent country produces plenty of wheat, gripes, figs, and melons. At the distance of three miles, is a Place called Leda, where St.,George
George was beheaded, now a church served by Greeks; and in the neighbourhood stands a mosque, formerly a Christian church, built by St.- Helena, under the high altar of which, forty mar tyr lie buried, whom The brought thither from Armenia: here likewise stands the house of Nicodemus who took Jesus down from the cross friday the 28th, leave. being obtained from the father guardian jerusalem, Gemelli paid about fourteen ducats, as affaire or tribute to the customer who furnished him with horses, and next. day he departed from Rama, accompanied by fome-fa- tiers, and the cadi or judge who was returning to Jerusalem. They travelled' twelve miles through the plain, and fourteen over the mountains, which are shaded with olives, passing through the village,. of the Good Thief, and in sight of Jeremy's village, not far from which, they saw the birth-place of St. John the Baptism. Then crossing a bridge, they entered the valley famous for the combat between David and Goliath; and on a neighbouring hill they beheld the castle of Emaus,. in which the two disciples knew our Saviour after his refers reftion.,When they reached Jerusalem, the door was directed by the fathers to enter by the gate of Damascus, that the Turks might see him and re clive the tribute; but, finding nobody at the gate, he proceeded directly to the monastery of St. Sa vihur: however, the guardian, dreading some mischance persuaded him to return and give notice to the Turks, who entered his name accordingly: then he was courteous received at the monastery, a small but convenient firuaure; the service of which is performed by fifty devout fathers however extensive and magnificent Jerusalem might have formerly been, it is, at present, in eluded within. three miles of circuit, and the num-,H 5 berber
of inhabitants does not amount to twenty thousand. It is situated between Mount Calvary and Olivet, has six gates, and is surrounded with bare walls and-turrets, without bastions, cannon, or even a sos. for its defence; except on the western side where t!i)re is a shallow ditch. Hard by is a cate built by the Pisan, on the ruins of Da vic's tower, which overlooks the walls, furnished with a :mail garrison, and a few dismounted pieces of arti:lery.,The inhabitants have no water but what they save in cisterns, except the sons Senatus, which is appropriated to the use of the cadi's palace, so that water is as dear, as bread ; and even that which tfiey have, is purgative. The city, and circumjacent country, is governed by a fangiaclk, sub ordinate to the bashaw o Damascus. Gemelli went to visit the holy places, attended by a father appointed for that purpose: he ascended Mount Calvary by a number of steps, and entered a fatal church, supposed, by the Greek,, to be the place where Abraham attempted to sacrifice his son ;fac; and on the same ascent is a dark vault called St. Peter's prison. In another Greek church they sewed him the spot where St. John the evan geli:t and St. James were born; and behind it, the apartments that belonged to the knights of the hoi: sepulchre. Then he paved under an arch cased the Iron-gate, through which St. Peter was conduced by the angel who delivered' him from prison then they repaired to the house of St. Mark, whereto apostles are said to have bap iced in a ozone-font fill remaining in the place, which is now a small church be! ting to the S rians. Tre house of St. Thomas is now a mosque, and thole of Cleoph-s, James, and Alone, are inaccessible, because inhabited by Tuki.ih women. The next,place
place he visited, was the church of St. James, with a good monastery, that affords lodging to fifty Armenian fathers. The church was built by the Spanish nation in honour of St. James, who was beheaded in this place: that spot on which he suffered martyrdom, is shewn in a small arch in the third chapel on the left hand side of the gate; and in the first is worshipped the body of St. Ma darius, bishop of Jerusalem. In an isle on the left,. are three speckled stones, upon the largest of which, Moses broke the tables of the law: that or. the right, was taken out of the river Jordan, near the place where Christ was baptized by John;. and the third was brought from Mount Tabor, where he was transfigured. All the pilgrims that come to visit the holy places, are provided by there, Greek fathers, with good lodging, and stables for their horses. Without the city, by Mount Zion gate, is the burying:place of all the Christian ca holies; ari hard by, the remains of an old wall of; the house, in which the virgin Mary died upon paying a zecchine, he was admitted into the church of the Holy Apostle, which is now used as a Mahometan mosque: it has but one large isle, according to the fashion of the country, supported by two pillars; and at the well-end is the tower or minores, from whence the wanton calls the Turks to prays. By a few steps ue went down to the under church, where Chris is said to have kept the silver with his disciples; where he appeared to them after his resurrection ; where the Holy Ghost descended upon the apostles in fiery tongues where St. Matthias was elected in the room of Judas where St. Stephen was made deacon; where the apostles hid themselves from the persecution caused by king Agrippa, and held the council, in which it was agreed that circumcision was not ne cesare, Here was kept the pillar, at which Jetus,H 6 .was
was scourged; and here is to oe seen David's Ce sepulchre, sixteen spans in length, together with the spot in which king Manasseh was buried., The church was built by Helena, and afterwards re. paired by Sancho, queen of Naples and Sicily.,On amount Sion, remarkable for the ruins of David's palace, still to be seen, is another small neat church served by Armenians, on the spot where formerly flood the house of Caiaphas, the high priest; in the porch whereof, Peter warmed himself . hen he denied his Lord. They lew in the wall of this church, the place where the cock crowed; and the vault in which Christ was con. fined and scourged for the first time: on the altar, is fixed the stone of the holy sepulchre, of which the Armenians robbed-the catholic fathers, during the war of Candia. Here, Judas sold his mailer, and here he restored the money to go and hang himself in despair. Behind the garden of the mo mastery of St. James, stands the house of Annas, where Christ was bound to an olive-tree, the branches of which, are fill to be seen in the porch of a church built near the spot, and in possession of the Armenians. At the distance of an hundred paces, without-the Porta flerquilinia, through which Jesus was led bound to Annas, they shew a ruined grotto or cave, where Peter bitterly bewailed his offence. In the lower part of the city, under the arches of the temple, is a magnificent fissure, formerly the church of the Presentation, with a convent of nuns; but now a mosque and fclioul for Turkish maidens. wIo are here ed-:cated un der the tuition of matrons, until they are mar riageabie. The bazar or market leads to the gate called Specious, through v.hich Chris entered when he went to the ' temple and disputed with the doc tors. The virgin Mary went the same way when she presented the child Jesus to Simeon: and here,5r1
St. Peter healed the paralytic. Near the gate, be gin the long and lofty arches leading to the temple of Solomon, which no Christian is permitted to fee.,On Monday the last of August, Gemelli visited the hospital of St. Helen, which is a great structure built for the accommodation of Christian pilgrims comprehending several long galleries; and here he saw remaining seven great cauldrons, in which they dressed meat for the poor. They are still used for the same purpose by the Turks, who, on certain days, give alms, even to Christians. Near St. Stephen's gate, he was shewn the pool of Bethesda, which is a tone baron an hundred paces long, sixty in breadth, and forty in depth; in the upper part of this street, he viewed the house of the pharisee, wl-ere Mary Magdalen anointed the feet osseous; and near the same place, is the ha citation of St. Ann, where the virgin Mary was born. In memory of there transaCtions, the Chris trans built a church and a chapel, which are in the hands of the Mahometans.,Beyond the brook Citron, that runs through the city, stands the church where the blessed Virgin was buried. Descending forty-seven steps, he saw on the right, two altars, where St. Joachim and St. Ann were interred ; and, on the left, the place where the body of St. Joseph was committed to the earth. On the floor of the church, near the well, stands the altar where the Coptic priests of fichte; on the right, the Jacobites perform divine service; on the left, the Gregorian say mars: the high altar without, belongs to the Armenians; and near it are two, for the use of the Syrians and Grecians. Within a very small chapel, stands an altar on the spot where the virgin Mary was in combed, and this is in possession of the catholic fathers. On the right hand side of the church is,the
the cave where our Saviour sweated blood, en. large and enlightened by the Christians, who made a new door and shut up the hole through which Jesus entered from the garden of Gethsemane; where they fill view eight olive-trees sprung from those that grew on the spot at the time of Chris's prayer. This garden, though little better than a barren rock, bears excellent figs, and was given to the catholic fathers by an Englishman, who pur chased it from the Turks for that purpose returning to the city, Gemelli went along the Dolorous-street, through which our Saviour passed with the cross upon his back; and entering Pilate's house, surveyed below the vaulted room, where Christ was scourged the second time; and above, the praetorium, where he received sentence of death, now converted to a stable; then mounted to the top of the house, from whence he enjoyed a full view of Solomon's temple, which has undergone so many vicissitudes. It was first plundered by Sefac king of Egypt, and restored by Josiah: then it was destroyed by Zedechia, rebuilt, pillaged again by Antiochus, the son of Seleucus; restored once more. though not to its firs splendour: lassies, demolished by Titus Vespasian. The emperor Adrian afterwards erected a temple to Jupiter on its ruins; and since that period, it has undergone a number of transformations, so that it mu:i be quite different from the original structure. What te doctor could observe, was a large quadrangle, about a mile in circuit, furnished with twelve gates, environed with a number of small chapels, habitations for the priests, and the cadi's palace, which was once the residence of the patriarch. There are several trees in the middle of the square, which leads into an inner area of a round form, and less than a quarter of a mile in compass, inclosed with walls, adorned with stately gates, and marble pillars'
lars. In the midst of this space, Hands the temple, in form of an oaagon, with four gates diametrically opposite to one another, built externally of hard brick; and raising into a beautiful cupola, co vexed with lead. Adjoining to it, on the east-fide, is an open gallery supported by small pillars, where is kept a stone brought from Mount Olivet, and said to be that on which our Saviour tsood when he ascended to Heaven.,Opposite to Pilate's house, is that in which He rod lived ; and though it has been often rebuilt, there is fill to be seen a little hall, in which less was examined by Herod ; and in the square stands an old arch that supported the balcony, where Pilate exposed Christ to the view of the people, saying, " Behold the man." At some distance-from this arch, is the place where he fell under the weight of the cross, and his mother fainted, now marked by a flrusure called the church of the swooning. In the same street of Sorrow, is the little house of Lazarus, ard as they call it, the palace of Dives, railed on arches, under which there is a thorough fare. This list is possessed by the governor: the bfnlaw lives in Pilate's house, and that of Herod is occupied by a Tusk, called Multapha. Here too they thew the house of St. Veronica, who, accord ing to antient tradition, brought a cloth to wipe our Saviour's face, the impression of which re gained upon the linen; and not far from it ap pears the gate of Justice, now shut up, through wvh;ch Jesus went out with the cross upon his back; together with the marble pillar, to which the fen hence of death was affixed, according to the custom of the country. At a little distance, is a small alone-tower, called Antoniana, where Saladin for ratified himself when he took Jerusalem ; and hard by are the ruins of the palace inhabited by God frey of Bouillon.,On
On Monday evening, the father guardian F, John Baptiste d' Shine, performed the ceremony of washing the feet of seven pilgrims, one of whom was our traveller, whom he likewise attended in a sight fit of illness, with great humanity. The good man daily exercised himself in virtuous ads of Christian humility, condescending even to was the dishes of the refectory.,Gemelii's next excursion was by the Bethlem gate, in order to ascend Mount Sion: he fawthe Valley of Evil Counsel, where Caiaphas and his abettors resolved that our Saviour should die; and the same rnamr extends to a little village of the Arabs on the top of the mountain that overlooks the valley; at the farther end of which are several Jewish tombs; and at the foot of the-mountain he saw the Holy Field, bought with the thirty pieces silver, in which the pilgrims who die in Jerusalem are buried : it is thirty feet square, cut out of the rock. At the upper end are some vent-holes, through which the Armenians lower down their dead bodies; below is the cave v here eight of the apostles hid themselves when Christ was crucified; and underneath the cave is a deep well, in which Nehemiah the high priest concealed the holy fire when the Jews were carried captives to Babylon. Here likewise is to he seen the place where the pro. poet Iliad was sawn asunder, and a white mule berry-tree, in room of the cedar, that opened and hid him in its trunk; and hard by is the pool of Siloam, an artificial basin forty spans long, sixteen in breadth, and t'-'enty in depth, containing some in different water that runs into the fountain in which the Virgin Mary is said to have wafted the linen of the infant Jesus.,Gtmeii: being conduced along the valley of Je hofaphat, saw on the right the summer-house of Siloam where Solomon kept his concubines j and on,the
the top of the hill the palace of Pharaoh's daughter At the foot of the mountain on which Judas hanged himself is the burying-place of the Jews, for which they pay a zecchine a day to the Turks: proceeding a little farther, he came to the sepulchre of Zachariah the son of Brachia, cut out of the rock in one piece: and close to it is the cave in which St. James absconded when Christ was cru pacified, swearing he would not eat until he saw him risen from the dead. Here too is'the tomb of Absalom, and that of king Jehofaphat.,On Sunday, September 2d, Gemelli, attended by the fathers and an interpreter, mounted one of the procurator's horses, and let out for Bethany, in the way to which he saw the place where Christ cursed the fig-tree, and a great wall which be longed io the house of Simon the leper. Above the city of Bethany is the remains of a strong wall, part of the castle of Lazarus, under which is a de scent of eight and twenty steps to his sepulchre, cut out of the hard rock, x here there is a small altar, at which the priests say mas : above is the foundation of the houses which were inhabited-by Mary Magdalen and Martha, with a stone-cutters contain ing bad water, at a small distance is a (harp stone, upon which our Saviour sat when he talked to Martha about the death of Lazarus; and on the way to Mount Olivet they shew a hillock at which Christ mounted the ass to enter Jerusalem on Palm Sunday.,The part of Mount Olivet from which Christ ascended is enclosed within a round chapel, the key of which is kept by a Mahometan wanton; and hard by, in a large court, is fern the stone on which the apostles fat, called Viri Gallilaei. At the foot of the mountain lies a pillar, near which the angel appeared to the blessed Virgin, giving hera branch of palm as a presage of her death: and hardly
by is the cave where St. Pelagian did penance and died. (opposite to this they shew the places where Jesus composed the Lord's prayer, wept for the city of Jerusalem, and preached to his disciples about the day of judgment; and at a little distance the sepulchres of the prophets that opened at our Saviour's death ; tcgeeilir with twelve caverns cut out of the rock, in which the apostles are said to have composed the Creed.,As no :pilgrim pressures to visit the river Jordan, for fear of the Arabs, except at Easier, when they are protected by a good guard of soldiers, Ge mell contented himself with viewing it from the top of Mount Olivet, where he likewise had a prof. pea of the Mare Mortuum, extending sixty miles in length, and sixteen in breadth : here he likewise viewed Mount Quarantine, on which Christ faded for forty days.,W-ithout the gate of Damascus he visited a mosque kept by a devise, in which there is a ca vern one hundred and fifty paces in circuit,. cut out of the solid rock; and here the prophetess jeremiah is said to have walked when he composed his Lamentations. At the distance of half a mile from the mosque are the tombs of three kings, of curious workmanship, cut likewise from the rock. He crawled through a narrow hole into a lofty room, fifteen feet square, having several little doors on the sides; the firs on the left leads to another large apartment, around which are six small doors, giving passage to as many tombs. The second door opens into another room containing seven sepulchres, and in each of these are two or three tombs, one of which was of marble. The third door opens alto into a room that has nine little outlets to other sepulchres ;. and among these is a sumptuous tomb of marble, distinguished by the figures of a bow and bottle carved at the head of the dormitory.,The
The fourth door in the first room'affords a difficult passage to a third royal sepulchre, pretty much de faced; and all these doors and hinges are curiously cut out of the solid rock, without being totally dis juined.,On Thursday 3d, the doctor, attended by three fathers and two interpreters, let out on horseback for Bethlem, and near the city walls surveyed the bath cf Bathftleba, inclosed with high walls, one hundred paces in length, forty in breadth, and thirty in depth, so situated as to be overlooked from king David's palace, that flood upon they'll. With in a few miles of Jerusalem, the fathers pointed out to our traveller the place where the Virgin Mary rested with the infant Jesus when the came to pre sent him in the temple.; the towering which St. Si men died; the cistern near which the three wise men saw the star appear again; the walls of the house where the prophet Habakkuk resided, when the angel carried him to Babylon to feed Daniel in the lions den; the spot where Elias refined when he fled from Jezebel, in memory of which event the Greeks have here built a monastery; part of the wall of the tower where Jacob rested when he came from Mesopotamia, and the remains of Ra chapel's sepulchre after they had rode six miles they reached Beth hem, which is very thinly inhabited, tho' it stands upon a pleasant hill, and enjoys an excellent air. The great church is one of the bed in the east, hav ing five large isles, formed by four colonnades of fine marble pillars, a beautiful pavement, and lofty roof: the monastery is provided with a good gar den, and convenient lodging for twelve monks. There is another small church dedicated to St. Ca throne, and paved with marble; besides the church and monastery of the Greek fathers, and that of the Armenians, from which there is a passage into thereat
great church for the conveniency of their coming. to-worship the holy manger, and the place where our Saviour was born, to which there is a de scent from the choir by the two opposite fair. cafes the place of the nativity, at the end of the cave, is covered with a great marble stone that serves for an altar: the manger is adorned with three pillars, About one shep lower appear two other small pillars between which is a kind of marble trough. large enough to hold an infant; and opposite to this is the alone on which Mary sat with her son in her arms, when he was visited by the wiseman, The little cavern, which is of a black hue, and i,. regularly cut in the rock, hath been a little enlarged on the west side; and the floor is paved with marble from the church of St. Catherine there is a dark descent of twenty-four steps to a cave in which ma. ny of the innocents slain by Herod were buried, and in honour of these an altar is erected. On the left is a chapel, in the plate whither Joseph is said to have retired at the birth of ChriS. In the same rock aie the tombs of St. Eusebius, St. Jerome, St. P.uia and her daughter Euliachia: and here likewise is another room called St. Jerome's Ora tory, where he translated the Bible ; besides certain oracles supported by pillars, where the same saint i said to have taught. which at present serve the Ar menials for a stable about a mile and a half from Bethlem is thx village and cave of the Shepherds, to which there is a descent of fourteen steps under ground. With in is an altar, and by it an arch, under which there was formerly a church, since decayed will aee. In this village appears the miraculous cistern the water of which is said to have swelled up t, the brim for the convenience of the Virgin's drinking
ing. Within the city is the cave to which she re tired while the was flying to Egypt; and not far from hence are the remains of the hospital built by St. Paula, who likewise founded a monastery, the ruins of which are still seen about half a mile from the Cave of the Shepherds. At the distance of two miles from Bethlem, on the top of an hill, is So lemon's country-house, furnished with a plentiful fountain of water; and somewhat lower is seen the enclosure of his garden, which is now a barren field. About two miles from the house are three large ponds, situated one above another, and' so disposed that' the superfluity of the superior runs into the inferior: the first is two hundred paces in length, and ninety in breadth ; the second and the third something larger, and all three eighteen paces in depth: at present they receive rain-water only, because the conduit is ruined, by which they were formerly filled from the Sons Senatus, which is above the ponds in the road to Hebron, and has three several sources; these being joined supply water, which is conveyed by an aqueduct solomon temple and the cadi's palace. Around the hill are several curious pillars and pieces of mosaic work, the remains perhaps of some delightful man sion. Near the fountain is a church dedicated to St. George, with a monastery inhabited by four cloy. crs or Greek priests, very poor, but respected even by the Turks, because they have the chain the saint was bound with, which, being applied to the neck of Tuis:, Arab, or Christian, is said to cure mad nefseffectu.lly. At the distance of a mile from Beth hem the conductor shews a plain called the Field of Sennacherib, where the angel is laid to have flat in one night an hundred and eighty-five thou sand men who went to besiege Jerusalem; what sort of men those were we shall not pretend to de-determine
termine; but, of the present race of 'mortals, it would not afford room for one third of that num ber, unless they were packed above one another like pickled herrings in a cask gemelli, in his return to Jerusalem, saw the fountain where Philip baptized the Ethiopian eunuch; and on a neighbouring hill the country-house in which the saint was born. Two miles beyond this mountain is the desart to which John the Baptist retired from the cruelty of Herod; where are fill to be seen the hawthorn-tree that afforded him sustenance, a spring of good water that supplied him with drink, and the cave in which he lay upon the hard rock. The next place that occurred, worthy of notice, was the house of Zachary, where the Virgin visited Elizabeth. Here was formerly nunnery, and in the cellar stands a cistern of very cold water, though not wholesome. From hence the doctor repaired to the monastery of St. John, and visited the place of his nativity, to which there is a descent of ten steps: and on this road there is a house on the top of a hill, that fronts the desart, in which the Maccabees were born and buried. Seven arches of their tombs are fill handing; and the fine mountain is famous for the grave of Sa duel, over which a church has been built.,In the adjacent valley flands'the monastery of the Holy Cross, which maintains thirteen Greek fathers, on the for where the wood of the cross is said to have been cut: and on the high altar is an hole where the tree flood. Near Jerusalem is the palace called Gihon, where Solomon was crowned ; but, at present, very little appears of the structure, besides a large fish pond, fifty paces in lengthens the Arabs rendered travelling very unsafe, Gemelli contented himself with a distant view of the place where Christ met the two disciples Luke,and
and Cleophas; the village of Eleazar, where Ab salon murdered his brother Anon for having de flowered his sister; the house of Cleophas, where Chris m. de himself known in the breaking bread; the field of Gabaon,; where Joshua overthrew five kings while the fun stood still that he might have light enough to obtain a compleat victory ; Samuel fountain and his sepulchre; the tombs of the Jesus, among which are those of St. Helen and the queen of Sheba; the cells of St. John Chrysostom, St. John of Damascus, and St. Basil; the grave in which forty martyrs were found ; the oratory of the abbot Arsenious; the fountain of St. Saba, and the cave of Engeddi, where David cut off the hem of Saul', garment.,On Saturday the 5th Gemelli paid fifteen piasters to have the Holy Sepulchre opened, an article of ex pence imposed by the Turks upon every Christian pilgrim that enters Jerusalem; and here we was re ceded by the guardian and twelve friars, who live in the place. With these and the priests of the upper monastery he walked in procession, accord inÂ£ to custom: here he was obliged to pars the night, because it was locked by the Turks, and the keys carried away; and next day he received the sacrament in the Holy Sepulchre.,In the court, before the gate of the church, are six chapels known by the names of St. Mary of Golgotha, St. George, St. John Baptist, St. Mary MIladalen, St. Michael, and St. Angel, kept by Greeks, Armenians, and Optics, who dwell in these places of worship. The church of the Sepulchre is very antient and dark, having no light but that which comes from the top of the cupola, closed by a net-work of iron, which also admits the rain and the weather: it is altogether round, decorated with fourteen marble' pillars, and six ancient pilasters that support the arches, over which are several dark,apart-
apartments for the use of the Greeks and Francis. cans. The Greek indeed have a beautiful church on the right-hand of the gate, adorned with good painting, and a neat cupola, with an excellent choir and altar, near which is a magnificent chair for their patriarch. The church of the Franciscans, adjoining to the sepulchre, tho' small, is decently adorned; and here are deposited two pieces of marble, near which our Saviour appeared to his mother after his resurrection; together with the pillar (seen thro' an iron gate) at which he was scourged. In the great church, a descent of four seps-leads to the place where he appeared in the habit of a gardener to Mary Magdalen; and at some distance is another descent by three steps to the prison where he was kept while the cross was preparing, which is now a dark vaulted chapel, supported by .small pillars that divide it into three ices. On the left are two holes where he is said to have fallen; and behind the Greek church isle chapel of Longinus, meanly adorned. Hard by is another, where the soldiers divided the garment of Jesus, now kept by Armenians. On the same side is a descent of thirty steps to the chapel of St. Ple. len; on the left is that of the Good Thief, in the hands of the Armenians lfo ; and on the other side is one kept by the Greeks, in which, near the stairs of Mount Calvary, is the Pillar of Reproach, made of variegated marble, three spans high, and six in circumference. Eleven steps cut in the rock lead to the place where St. Helen's croft was found, a dark lofty chapel belonging to the catholics behind the Greek church is an ascent of eighteen hep: to Mount Calvary, with four arches: in the first of these appears an hole in w which the cross was fixed, and a piece of marble covering the spot where Mary scot while they erected the cross: this belongs to the Greek fathers. On the left it,-0~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~the
the place where Christ was nailed to the cross, distinguished by two altars. Under the fourth arch are five tones, which denote the place where he was stripped; and this, as well as our Lady's Chapel to which there is a door from without, belongs to the Roman Catholics. Here the Virgin and St. John flood when Christ said from the cross, " Wo. man, behold thy son !" &c. Descending from Mount Calvary, on which the Greeks have their habitation, the doctor went into a place called Adam's Chapel, because there, (they say) our first parent's head was found. On one side of the door is the sepulchre of Baldwin, and on the other, that of Godfrey, the two brothers of Bouillon; and a third, in which they say Melchior sedes lies entombed opposite to the great gate, is the front upon which Christ was anointed, of white marble, about eight spans in length and four in breadth, enclosed within iron banisters; and below it, the spot where the friends osseous flood to see him buried. All these places are lighted with lamps, and in this or der do the pilgrims visit them in procession with the fathers.,In the midst of the church stands the chapel of the Holy Sepulchre, about four and twenty spans in circuit, with a little cupola, supported by twelve small columns: by the light of seventeen small lamps that burn continually is descried the shone which the angel removed from the mouth of the sepulchre, though it is now half-buried in the earth. A nash low hole gives p .sage into the sepulchre itself, eight spans square, containing the tomb of the same length, which being covered with a marble Stone, serves the purpose of an altar. Notwithstanding three holes on the top for giving vent to the smoke, the place is excessively hut, in consequence of forty seven lamps that burn without intermission. This VOL. VI. I ant
and the oratory that contains it are hung with silk on the outside as well as within. Adjoining to the back part of it is the chapel of the Coptis, and that of the Syrians; and on the opposite side a passage cut in the rock, leading to the tombs of Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea. Our traveller, having seen there particulars, went up the flairs to the chapel, here he saw mass performed in the Armenian manner: the priest wore a cope with a collar, like the habit of the Treating, and a long cap on his head; he advanced with a small chalice covered with a veil, while the audience mingled a number-otf silver horse bells, because all other sorts are pro habited, though, instead of bells, they use a long piece of board, upon which they beat with a wooden r. lethe father guardian-favoured Gemelli with a sight of the plate which has been given to the Holy Sepulchre by divers kings and princes, though it is never shewn to common pilgrims, but kept buried in the earth, to escape the notice of the rapacious Turks; and indeed the sacristan was unwilling to bring it above ground. it confined of a lamp-weighing about three hundred pounds, sent thither by Philip III. of Spain ; a cross, chalice, with cost ly vestments bestowed by Lewis XtV. of France; other vestments adorned with gold, pearls, and pre. pious sooner, giv-n- by Philip II. of Spain, and other Christian princes; a chalice sent by Catherine queen ,of England, together with six candlestick; four flower-pots and a silver cross given by the city of Messina, in memory of the letter supposed to be written to the inhabitants by the Virgin Mary. This rich furniture is never used but upon the greatest feflivals.,The Greeks too indulged Gemelli with a sight of their Antrum Sanctum, where he adored some precious relics, such as an arm of Mary Mag-,dalen,
dale, a piece of the holy cross, and part of St. John the Baptist's full. There he saw several boxes, censers, and other vessels of silver, which they use in their ceremonies; a wooden cross of wonderful workmanship, on which are carved such small figures that they cannot be discerned without the help of a microscope; and some excellent pic turns drawn by Bandits and Muscovites.,Over this holy place a Mahometan wanton dwells, in order to receive the money paid for opening it: and on Monday our traveller having gratified this person for letting him go out, went to St. Saviour's, where he saw the curious lamp Cent by the commis far of Naples, worth fourteen thousand crowns; and a copy of the holy sudarium or portrait of Christ, imprinted on the cloth with which Vero nice wiped his face, sent in a present by the duke of Savoy.,These sacred places were a great many years ago seized upon by the Greeks; but, after a long trial in the divan at Constantinople, they were restored to the Capuchins, chiefly through the influence of the marquis de Chateauneuf, the French ambassador at the Porte; in return for which benefit, the fathers, in their table of masses, have set that noble man doazn among their benefactors, next to the crowned heads.,As soon as a pilgrim hath satisfied his curiosity and devotion in the country, he cannot be too ex seditious in taking his departure, in order to with draw himself from the insolence and knavery of the Turks, agalrfl which there is no remedy but pa thence. I'or that reason Gemelli resolved to take Lis leave of Jerusalem without delay; and on Tuesday the 8th, being the nativity of the Virgin Mary, he heard mass in the very house where she firm saw the light, over which the Turks have a mosque'; tb that they never suffer the Chrifians to enter it,I 2 except
except on this day; and even then the privilege is bought with a considerable sum of money gemelli having bid adieu to the reverend father guardian and procurator general, who presented him with chocolate and rome precious relics, and caused two masses to be said for the happy success of his journey, set out on horseback from the Beth. hem-gate, with no other guard than the muleteer, whom they call muccaro; and he dropping behind to gather figs, of which there is great plenty on the neighbouring hills, the doctor was in danger of being robbed by two peasants, who, seeing him dressed in a red coat, mistook him for a merchant loaded with money, and by signs, commanded him to follow them; however, the muccaro came up be fore they had time to execute their purpose, and allured them that he had no money, so that they were prevailed upon to let him pass. He was after. wards rifled at the village of the Good Thief, by an Arab, who was receiver of the Tribute, and who finding nothing valuable about Gemelli's per son, extorted from him a promise to pay a pinafore at Rama, otherwise he would have carried him away prisoner to the next mountain. He accordingly cane punctually to the place for the money, which he pretended was his due, and which the muleteer was obliged to pay cut of his own pocket, as head undertaken, for eight and twenty passers, to con. die the dccor free of all charges to Jafla.,In this wretched country, the tax gatherer plan. ders all strangers without controul, and the rest of the Arabs follow his example; for they are too lz) to work for their lix echoed, and if they bold til the ground, they would not reap the fruits of thei labour. They lead a miserable life, lying on th bare ground, and feeding on a little coarse bread without any other kind of provision, unless the have the good fortune to rob French pilgrims; beside
sides, they are at continual variance among them selves, some of them being of the white, and some of the red banner,' and these disputes produce num beliefs frays, in which many are killed and wounded.,Our traveller having put on a sorry garment of the muccaro, that he might not be apt to attract the attention of the Arabs, arrived on Wednesday at Rama, and next day returned the visit of some Christian Maronites of note. Then he went to see the holy places about Rama, and on Saturday surveyed a cavalcade of Arabs, accompanied with pipes, carrying two children to le circumcised; a ceremony which ended in a feast, consisting of ma ny dishes of Pilaw.,On Sunday he departed with a caravan of Arabs for Jaffa, which he reached that same night, after having expended about seventy Neapolitan crowns in his pilgrimage to Jerusalem. The poor and disabled pilgrims who cannot go up to Jerusalem, gain all the indulgences of the Holy Land at Jaffa, from whence they return to European Monday sith, he embarked with a fair wind, and next day arrived at the the antient Ptolemaic, now called St. John of Acra, almost quite ruined and void of inhabitants; here, however, he went to the monastery of Franciscans, where he was fur wished with necessaries for proceeding to Nazareth, at the distance of five and twenty miles. There he worshipped the holy place where the angel saluted the bluffed Virgin, and was affectionately received by the Capuchins; and on Friday returned to St. John of Acra, because the Arabs rendered it un safe Â¢t proceed to Galilee. Going on board of a bark, he went back to Jaffa, took a passage in a fair for Damietta, and embarked on Thursday the 24th, resolving to return to Alexandria, where he had left his baggage. When he reached the Bogafi, or mouth of the river, he hired a boat to Damietta,,13 and
and though he made shift to avoid the blackamoor of Hizba, the janissaries exalted half a plaster before they would allow him to pass. He lodged at the house of the Christian Maronite, who is procurator for the monks of Jerusalem, but was effectually hindered from enjoying the least repose, by a num ber of troublesome infeft, and the screams of a black woman in labour in the next room.,In the morning he complained, without effete, of Selim the Ethiopian, to the customer, who was his fellow-passenger down the Nile; and lived two da s without react, because there was no Jew present kill rome goat, hen, or other fowl, according to the mahometan fuperfrition.,On Friday, October 2d, he arrived at Bubac, where finding a boat ready to depart for Rosetta, he took that opportunity of running down the Nile, which had overflowed the whole country, and land ing on Sunday evening, next day embarked for Alex andrea, which he reached before night. Here be ing informed, that at Bichier there were some vessel bound for Constantinople, he procured a letter of recommendation to the Aga of that place, in consequence of which he obtained a passage, and took his leave of Egypt, after having been exposed to numberless insults and impositions from the Turks and beggarly Arabs, who not only fleece but affect to ridicule the Christians, on whose money they subsist. Besides, Europeans are subjea to another additional inconvenience: there ignorant people imagine ail Franks are physicians; and there fore teaze them incessantly to prescribe for their difcrders.,Egypt is at present inhabited by Coptis, Moors, Arabs, Turks, Greeks, and Jews, and the Mahometan is the prevailing religion. The Coptis, so called from Copt, the son of Distrain king of Egypt, were formerly idolaters, but converted to the Chris-tian
tian faith by the preaching of St. Mark the evangelist they continued catholic till the time of their patriarch l)iofcorus, whose errors they adopted, and fill maintain. In past ages, the number of those Coptis who payed tribute amounted to six hundred thousand ; at present they are reduced to fifteen thou sand souls, by the cruelty of Pagan governors, who butchered them by thousands on account of their re legion, and the bitter oppression of the Turks, to who!: despotism Egypt is now fubjeled.,if the people of this country were famous of old for theircourtefy, learning, and invention, they are now as noted for their barbarity, stupidity, and ignorance They are ferocious, cruel, slothful, co venous, and false, and hate the Christians with all the bigotry of aversion. The dress of the better sort of Arabs differs very little from that of the Turks; but those of the inferior class wear sacks, or (as they call them) cabins, over their shirts, and wrap a rag of cloth or silk round their heads by way of turban. The faces of the women are concealed with masks of cloth or silk;. and they wear a long piece of drapery over their other garments: those of any fashion are raised to a monstrous height up on high wooden clogs. They are naturally low, and brown; and beauty among them is thought to consist in the sparkling of the eye their summer is by three months more early that ours; for their figs and grapes are ripe in the be ginning of June: all the fruits known in Europe are here in great perfection, in consequence of the richness of the soil, particularly pears, pomegranates, apples, and dates, which are peculiar to Africa. Here likewise are delicious beccaficos, and turtles so numerous and tame, that they walk about the firebrand houses like pigeons; but the climate is render. ed unhealthy by the great heat and moisture.,14 C H HAP.
CHAP. IV. che author's voyage tg Rh ndzs, Slanchia, Scio, an.,Smyrna. O N Saturday, OGober the Both, Gemelli de-shivered his letter of recommendation at Bi chier to the Aga, who spoke in his favour to the rais, or master of a vessel in which he embarked for Rhodes; but the wind blowing hard, and proving contrary, this Turkish pilot returned to Alexandria, and next day sailed again with a fair wind. They had not, however, proceeded above forty miles when the fears of the rais recurred, though the weather was not at all formidable, and he put in again at the port of Bichier, by which means he avoided a terrible tempest, attended with a great deal of rain; so that those people are mistaken who think there is no rain in Egypt.,The storm having subsided, and the wind being favourable, the matier of the vessel ventured to put to rea, and on Saturday the 24th, before noon, they arrived in the harbour of Rhodes, after having fail ed five hundred miles in forty-seven hours this city, once one of the most flourishing in Asia, is situated in the latitude of thirty-fix degrees. It was granted by Emmanuel, emperor of Constantinople to the knights hospitallers of St. John, as ter their expulsion-from the Holy Land; and in the year 1444, they defended it gallantly against the sultan of Egypt. In 1480, they held out a siege of three months, undertaken by Mahomet II. but in 1522, the Island was subdued by Soliman II. after the knights had made a most obstinate defence, uns tier the conduce of their great master, Adam.,The
In A nAP of the ARCHIPELAGO. ' 6,0 0 c . ~ . 4 -. "-,s i P j Constant E~~ah' AT OE Ia I~~~~hbcs~ ~ ~ ~ Th Pardandl Â£orea 4,cl arab c uc - d'arno E D 1 TE l-E T- A X-,,g\ eqoo *, Â·-~s ~imonm C~aai cpOdcl1Isan ~vE IT R WE NSEA,Â·5 ~~C""-~~P" ~ js,c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~s~y .r C
The city, seated on the east side 'of the island, partly on the plain, and partly on the hill, is about three miles in compass; the streets are wide, straight, and well-paved, and in the middle of the largest is a row of white marble stones from one end to the other: here are to be seen the lodgings of the knights, artti the palace of the great mailer:. for the magnificence of the buildings hath not been diminished by the Turks, and even the arms of the knights re main on the artillery. The edifices are of hard stone, and their markets well supplied with all ne ceflaries, which are sold at easy rates. The place is strong, inhabited by Turks and Jews;. for the Greek Christians, though more numerous, live in the suburbs and adjacent country, which, being well cultivated, yields a delightful prospect of gardens and vineyards. When the Mahometanss go to pray hers on Friday at noon, the Christians and Jews are obliged to quit the city, and if they do not retire, With great expedition, are severely handled by the mufiilmen.,The grand master's palace is converted into a state prison, where two clams of Tartary, who were deposed by the sultan, resided at the time of Gemelli's voyage; and the church of St. John ad joining to that great structure, is now used as a Itaque. The city is provided with divers convenient harbours, well Ifccired with castles and other fortifications; in one of which ports flood the famous Colossus of brass, the height of which amounted to seventy cubits: no man could enclose the thumb in his arms ; every finger was as big as the largest of the ancient statues, and the space be tweed the two legs so extensive as to admit vessels of great burthen. In the hand was a vessel or lamp, in which a creat fire continually burned in' the night as a beacon to ships bound into the har your: after it had stood six and fifty yeares it was.,I 5 thrown,
thrown down by an earthquake, and the Rhodian. were hindered from replacing it by the menaces of the oracle; so that it lay upon the ground for five. rat ages, until it was knocked in pieces in the year 654; and in Ix 36 it was totally destroyed by a chief of the Saracens, who making himself matter of the island, sold the metal to a Jew, which, be ing landed in Lesser Asia, loaded nine hundred ca melts that transported it into Egypt.,The island of Rhodes-formerly called Ofiufa, As. terra, and Lettre, extends one hundred and forty Italian miles in length: the climate is temperate and agreeable, and the soil abounds with fruit and wine, though it does not produce a sufficient quantity of corn; but this is plentifully supplied by Na ttlia, which is but twenty miles distant from the north side of the island. Those places which were formerly cities, such as Salerno Lyndon, that gave birth to Charles the famous statuary who formed the Colossus, and others, are now reduced to wretched villages, inhabited by miserable Greeks, Jews, and Mahometans.,The Rhodian women, who are very fair, cover almost the whole of their faces by means of two handkerchiefs, one of which descends to the nose, and the other rises above the mouth; yet they are counted very beautiful: indeed the rais of the vessel in which Gemelli took his passage was an in fiance of the truth of this opinion; for, though the wind was fair, he could not for several days be per faded to leave the embraces of his wife, who was a native of this island. At length, however, he was prevailed upon to set sail on Saturday, Octo ber 31 tl but he had not proceeded above two miles when he returned, either from the motives of love, or apprehension; for the weather began to roughen, and all the Turkish sailors are fearfully perplexed in any emergency at sea,,2 W ednefida
Wednesday the 4th, a Turk seeing the doors walking in the streets, beckoned to him by way of inviting him to his house; but he did rot think proper to obey the signal; and next day he was in formed by a Sicilian, that the inhabitants suffered him to be a spy, and in all probability would make him a slave, a misfortune which had happened the preceeding )year to four Frenchmen who came frori Napoli de Romania. This intelligence gave him no little disturbance, especially as he had forgot to. obtain a pass from the French consul; and on Fri day, which was the day of prayer, he did not take notice of the usual signal, and was slut ins 'at the extreme hazard of his freedom; for, had he beene found in the tower, where he hid himself, he'wouldt have certainly been apprehended as a spy this narrow escape alarmed him so much, that he made all possible enquiry for some other vessel in which he might be transported from this.danger- vous place; and at length took his passage in. a: French tartan bound for Smyrna, on board of: which were four merchants of that country, seven Turks,. and the aga of Seyde, who had quitted the Turkish vessel on account of the pilot's ignorance. These. barbarians, who are so insolent on board' of their own ships, were here as supple as greyhounds, afraid. even of saying their prayers in public, leftthey Should, incur the ridicule of the Chriflians.,In their voyage they passed the islands of Scipio,. Episcopi, Calce, and Niflaro, inhabited by Grecians. and affording retreat to pirates; anson. Friday the sixth anchored in Sancho, at-the distance fan, hundred miles from Rhodes, having all the way. coasted along the continent of Natolia.,This island, the Cos of' the antients, lying in a. longitudinal form, and parted on the eat from Na t;,lia by a freight of six miles, is famous for having.,1. 6. giver:
given birth to Hippocrates the father of 'medicine, and Apelles the prince of antient painters the city, which stands on a rising ground near the sea, is indifferently fortified, and has no har your; so that the ships are obliged to anchor in an open road. The houses are generally low, and built of sone; and-on the west side are large sub urbs, inhabited by Jews and Greeks, grievously op pressed by the Mahometanss; though the adjacent country affords an agreeable prospect of gardens and vineyards that produce excellent wine: but, the greater curiosity of the place is a sycamore-tree, growing between the Castle Gate and the market. place, so large and extended, that four thousand men may hand under its boughs, supported by six and thirty pillars, within which are two fountains, and several benches fixed for the convenience of those who go thither to take the air.,On Saturday 14th, they sailed with a (canty wind, and next day paled Lyifo, St. John de Arno, Nac- caria, Liforni, Sarnos, of old consecrated to Juno, and famous for having been the birth-place of Pythagoras Besides these they saw a number of ifanAs scattered in the Archipelago; and the wind proving contrary, were obliged to take filter un der the rock of Artivo, a place uninhabited by any other persons than Shepherds, who go thither to feed their flocks, though in continual dread of the pyrates. Here the mailer of the tartan took on board a large quantity of wood, which had been left by three vests that departed immediately be fore his arrival; and next day the sailors, in look ing for shell-fish on the shore, found a sea-urchin, which they presented to the aga, who put it into the fire to roast. Indeed he was amazingly ignorant and savage, and wore a long matted beard like a mountain goat.,On
On Tuesday 17th they failed before day, passed the streight between Soma and Forti, and after a run of an hundred and thirty miles arrived towards night at Scio, where the doctor going ashore, was entertained by the capuchins this island, formerly Scyros, which the Turks call Saliva Dau, or the island of Match, is eighty miles in compass, extending on the north towards Mytilene, and on the east towards Natolia, from which it is separated by a channel three leagues wide, called the streight of Capo Banco, and on the south is the island of Naccaria. The soil next the sea is very fertile; but farther up, the country. is rocky and barren, yielding only pasturage for goats. The number of inhabitants that live in the metropolis and fourscore villages, amounts to one hundred thousand, four fifths of which are Greeks, and the rest Jews, Turks, and catholics: their wealth confess in milk, butter, wine, and silk, of which they make annually to the value of one hun died and twenty thousand crowns the city Scio, situated in thirty-eight degrees of latitude, is of a longitudinal form, lying on the .ea coast, and encompassed by good walls and indifferent fortifications. The port is large, but not very sale, because the ground is so very soft, that the anchors have no hold; and in the middle of it is a light house ; and here lie the five gallies of the island, commanded by an equal number of begs, to each of whom the grand signior allows twelve thousand crowns yearly for the charge of maintaining and keeping them. The town is said to contain forty thousand inhabitants, mostly Christians, Latins as well as Greeks, who have their own bishops and priests, while the Turks and Jews are obliged to live in the castle. The houses are of stone, having pyramidical roofs, covered with tiles: the streets are narrow, paved with pebbles; and the bazars,abound,3
abound with all necessaries, supplied at easy rates on account of the neighbourhood of Natolia. The Christian women wear Short coats, gathered be. hind like a surplice; the widows cover the head with a red veil, but other women have them of a white colour; and their caps are furnished behind, towards the left side, with an hanging fringe, inter woven at all times of the year with a variety of flowers, which exhibit a very gay and agreeable ap. appearance. They are extremely fair, beautiful, wit ty, and familiar: the maids are even very free with strangers, and women of all ranks display their breasts without reserve the match of this island, being the belt in-the world, is entirely appropriated to the use of the grand signior's seraglio, where the ladies chew it, in order to whiten their teeth and sweeten their breath. The country likewise produces some cot ton, the manufacturing of which affords a subsistence to the poor people. Here Gemelli saw, at the French consul's house, a young Venetian renegado who had formerly been an Augustinian friar, and turned Mahometan, in order to avoid the pu punishment with which he was threatened by his fu period for his irregularities; but he soon repented of his apostacy, and now begged the consul would contrive his escape into Christendom. Perhaps he afterwards became ambitious of the crown of mar. tvrdom, like one brother James a lay-brother of Calabria, who being for some offence committed to prison by the superior of Erica, a snail monastery in the mountains of Syria, made Shift to escape, and flying to Seyde, embraced the religion of Ma home, and was circumcised; but, in two months after his conversion, becoming .sensible of his crime, he nat recourse to the French capuchin who was superior in that city, abjured Mahometanifmn, and received absolution. Next day being Friday, theft final
festival of the Turks, hewett to the bazar, which was crowded with people, then taking a cross from his bosom, and trampling upon his turban and green garment, he began to preach with great vehemence against the mussulman religion as a damnable im posture, by which multitudes of poor souls were led to everlasting torture. His meaning was no sooner understood by some Turks who had a smattering ot the Italian tongue, than they dragged him before the bashaw, who being informed of his presumption, asked if he was mad, and even promised to pardon him, provided he would own that what he had said was the effect of frenzy. Brother James persisted in his zeal and abuse of Mahomet, being desirous of nothing so much as the honour of dying for the Christian faith; and was accordingly beheaded at the gate of the seraglio : his body being bought for fifty piasters by the French, was put into quick-lime, in order to be consumed;. but the place being opened at the end of three months, it was found entire, and as fresh as on the day of his death; a circumstance which was inter pretend into a miracle; and his festival is celebrated by all the Christians of the east.,On Sunday 22d, Gemelli walked about the-town, under the conduct of the consul's son, and some other Frenchmen, and saw a Greek nunnery, which looked more like flews than the lodgings of people dedicated to religion; for the nuns are allowed not only to go abroad, but even to admit men into their apartments. Next day he went to examine the martin-trees, called by the Turks lakes: they are fender, and their branches, after bending to the ground, turn upwards again. The people make incisions in different parts of the trunk, whence from the beginning of May till the end of June the gum distils upon the ground, which is therefore kept ve-ry clean to receive it as it falls. Then the doctor,went
went to the sea-side to view a rock, under which are some seats, supposed to have been the school of Homer. This island produces some excellent turpentine and great plenty of partridges, so tame, that they feed all day like poultry, in the fields, and at night return to the farmer's house on the call of a whittle.,Our traveller was inclined to take a passage from Scio, directly to Constantinople, but was diverted from his purpose by the mailer of a French tartan, who observed, that if he should truss himself on board of a Turkish or Greek vessel without a pass, he would run the risk of being made a slave in some one of the islands of the Archipelago, where there was no European consul by whom he could be pro teceed; whereas at Smyrna he might obtain a pass, and from thence continue his voyage with more safe ty. Convinced by there remonstrances, he em barked again in the tartan on Tuesday the 24th, and the wind being favourable, loon left the land of Cuchimel on the right, sailing between the con finest and the island bpalmatore, which is inhabit ed by Greeks and Turks. Next day they passed by Cate Carabines, leaving Mytilene on the left, at night entered the gulph of Smyrna, and on Thursday came to anchor within the fort, which is well garrisoned, and provided with one and twenty pieces of cannon, level with ;he water. Next evening they went farther up into the harbour, and going ashore, were courteously entertained at the house of the French consul: then Gemelli hired a private lodging for himself and his servant, for three quarters of a pinafore a day; but the most frugal way is to lodge at a public khan, where, for little more than a Dutch pialire, a man may have an apart ment for a month smyrna, situated in thirty-eight degrees of latitude on the coast of the Archipelago, is a very,antient
antient city, famous for its pretensions as the birth place of Homer, and may be about four miles in compass, partly on the plain, and partly on a rising ground. All the buildings are extremely mean, except the khan's, which really exhibits a magnificent appearance: yet the streets are large, and the whole city one continued bazar or market abound ing with all the necessaries, and even pleasures of lite for all the best commodities of Europe and Aha are brought hither for sale. Provisions are not lb cheap as in other parts of the Turkish domini ons, because of the vals concourse of strangers, amounting to fifty thousand Turks, Jews, Greeks, Armenians, and European merchantmen the port, which is large, are always some hundreds of vessels belonging to different nations: but the four gallies of the place lie in the inner har your, defended by a paultry fort, with a very weak garrison. In the upper part of the city finds an antient castle, said to have been built by the em press Helen, in the form of an amphitheatre, about a mile in compass, with six plain towers that com and the city, thereon the opposite side being quite ruined. Within the gate is a statue of the empress and a marble tomb inscribed with Turkish letters; and hard by an antient church converted into a mosque, though now ruinous. The ground is strewed with shafts of marble pillars, and there is a descent to subterraneous vaults, supported by four and twenty vast columns, and curiously paved, for merely serving as a cistern for the use of the castle. In the quadrangle of this fortress, St. Polycarp, a native of that place, is said to have been exposed to hungry lions; and on the same hill which com hands the city, appears the ruins of an ancient firuElure, said to have been the palace of the Greek council, when Smyrna was the metropolis of Asia Mlinor.,Here
Here the consuls of France, England, and Host land live in great splendor, maintained by the great profits of trade carried on in this place, and with regard to religion, there is a monastery of Jesuits, another of French capuchins, maintained by his most Christian majesty, and a third of poor Vent. trans reckless, who live in a miserable manner; te sides several Greek convents and Jewish synagogues. In the neighbourhood there is abundance of game, consisting of wild boars, deer, antelopes, partridges, godwlits, decks, and many other arts of fowl; and strangers may take the diversion of shooting with. out fear of offence. Indeed the Franks enjoy great liberty at Smyrna, cloathing themselves according to their own fancy, and taking their pleasure either by land or water without molestation or restraint. The sea teems with excellent fish, and the land with delicious fruit, especially pomegranates, which are infinitely preferable to those of Italy; and the country likewise produces scammony, opium, and galls yet all there advantages are counterbalanced by the malignity of the air, which in the summer months is productive of pestilential fevers; as well as by the terrors of earthquakes, which seldom fail to visit the inhabitants every year, burying them under the ruins of their own houses.,Gernelli, having' seen every thing that was re markable in the city, and suffered his baggage to be searched at the custom-house, where he was treated with great civility, went to the English con ful, from whom he hoped to obtain a pass, as a subjea of the king of Spain, who was then in al hance with England; but he was received with great haughtiness, and refused in an abrupt man ner. He met with the same treatment from the consul of the Dutch; but the French consul very politely granted him a pass for Constantinople,,1elt.
Next day, in going to the khan to look for his Jew ifh interpreter, he was flopped by a servant of the caragi bashaw, or chief of the receivers, who car cried him before his master as a Portuguese Jew; and, though he invited upon being a Frenchman, the Turk would not set him at liberty until he bad left a pledge, which however the French consul soon obliged him to restore. About two days after this adventure he was visited by his shipmate, the Aga of Seyde, whom he treated with chocolate, which had such an effet upon this brutal mussulman, that he began to rave, and swear vengeance against his entertainer, who, he said, had given him a liquor to make him mad; and, if this disorder had con tinged, the doctor (to use his own words) would certainly have suffered for giving chocolate to an ass; which ass, by the bye, was grandson to the famous vizier Kupurli, and even flattered himself with the hope of riling to the dignity of his grand fathers H A P.
CHAP. V. The author continues his voyage to Adrianople, and gives an account of Tenedos, Mj tine, and the city of Gallipcli. O N Friday December the with, Gemelli em-barked on board a Turkish vessel called a chi amber, after having agreed for his passage, and paid for a separate cabin; and, failing eighty miles, ar. rived next day at Mytilene, antiently known by the names cf L- sacs, Homer, and Malaria, an island about three hundred and sixty miles in compass, famous for having produced a Pittacus, Sappho, and Arian. The metropolis is on the north-east side, seated on a rock, which, jetting into the sea, forms two harbours, defended by a castle and a sort. The he uses are low, inhabited by Turks and Greeks; for it was taken by Mahomet II. in the year 1464; yet there is an excellent bazar; and the fertile soil produces good wine, and all sorts of fruits and vegetables in great abundance.,On Monday the sith they took their departure from Mytilene, or, as the Turks call it, Modelling, and having passed the freights of Baba, anchored beyond the castle of Molova, after a run of twenty miles; for the Turks dare not keep out at sea for fear of pyrates. Next day they passed between the island of Tenedos, which the Turks call Bofciada, and the continent of Natolia; and the wind ceasing after they had run fifty miles, Gemelli went a- fore to'fee the ruins of Troy. All along the coast he found white marble columns both standing and fallen; and walking about a mile up the country, saw a great number of ruinous firuAures of free stone among which was a circular tower, with around
round roof, in all probability an antient temple: he had not time to proceed further; but the rais told him all the country, for the space of a day's jour ney, was covered with such ruins and fragments of good marble, and the Turks distinguish them by the name of Old Constantinople *.,The wind freshening, they put into the island of Tenedos, the middle parts of which are plain, and the edges mountainous, though they produce good IMufcadine wine. This island, formerly called Leucocytes, and Lyrneffus, is in compass fifty miles, containing several villages, and the chief city, which stands at the foot of a mountain on the east angle, looking towards the Dardanelles, from which it is distant eighteen miles. It was formerly famous for a temple dedicated to Neptune; at present the buildings are low, inhabited by Greeks and Turks, and commanded by a castle situated on the point of a rock; and this likewise secures the harbour, which is large and commodiously Thursday the x7th, the rais weighed an cor, and the wind failing, his people were ob lived to row the chamber between the Dardanelles, which are two forts situated on the opposite sides of the freight of the Hellespont; though this last being twelve miles over, they can be of very little service in obstructing the passage of vessels. Next day, before noon, the bark sailed between the other two sorts, called by the antients Seflos and Abydos, which being placed at the narrowest part of the sleight, not exceeding two miles, can effectually hinder lips from passing between them; they are both pretty Prong, and in that which stands on the side of Romelia, there is one cannon so large as to,* These are the ruins of Troas, built by Alexander the Great, at Ime distance from the place in which Old Troy was situated.,hold
hold a man sitting upright in the cavity. This freight, extending three hundred miles, to the Black Sea, is in some places three, and others ten, and even thirty miles wide. They passed Maids, a town on the Romelia shore, abounding with wine, sailed along the ruins of Schieftambul, an ancient city possessed by the Turks before they took Con. flantinople; and at sun-set arrived at Gallipoli, where Gemelli was kindly received by the French vice-consul, who, though a Jew, entertained him hospitably in his own house. Gallipoli, called by the Turks Jebole, is city of Romelia about three miles in circuit, which has been formerly very con miserable; but the lazy Tusks have allowed the mosques, arsenals, and fortifications to fall to ruin. The inhabitants amount to about six thousand Jews, Greeks and Turks, and it is a place of trade, be cause it lies in the way to Constantinople and Ad rianopole; it is ruled by a bashaw, under whom is an aga, with a cadi, and other officers. Here is plenty of corn, wine, and fruit; the country abounds with all sorts of game, and the bazar is supplied with great variety of commodities the French vice-consul and his Ton used all their endeavours to procure a safe method of conveyance for Gemelli, who wanted to set out for Adrianople, and pretended to be charged with letters of con sequence from the merchants of Marseilles to the French ambassador at the Porte; but as no opportunity of a caravan offered, and the roads were ren tered extremely dangerous by the Janissaries re turning from the war to their winter-quarters in Natolia, he saw but little prospect of being able to perform his journey, when he luckily received in formation of an empty coach returning from Adrian noble, and took seats for himself and his servant for a zecchine and an half, after the vice consul had,assurcd
assured him he might trust himself with the coach. man, who was a Christian of Bulgaria, well known in Gallipoli. Saturday being the Jewifh-fabbath, and the Turks thinking themselves above any such servile employment, the doaora nd his man, toge ther with an Armenian likewise bound for Adrian ogle, carried the luggage to the coach, and em barking, travelled eight and twenty miles, through a plain country well-cultivated. At night they took lodging in a khan or caravan fera, which was no other than a long stable, with places raised for the conveniency of travellers, who have their lodgings gratis, though they must provide their own beds, viÃ³tuais, and firing: there are structures built by pious Turks, who strive to earn paradise by such works of charity: and in this place our traveller was assisted in laying his masts, and keeping up his fire, by a good-natured janissary, who had followed them a-foot, and disturbed them all night with sneaking and prating, in company with some spa his who happened to be in the khan next day they passed the village of Julia Musulman crossed tome mountains covered with wood; and, after a journey of five and twenty miles, ar rived at the city of Megara, situated at the foot of a mountain, and containing about one hundred thousand inhabitants, Turks, Greeks, and Arme nians, under the government of a bashaw, to whom three hundred other villages are subjea. Here are seven mosques, and a rich bazar enclosed, and adorned with six cupolas; but as there are no other ins in Turky, the door was obliged to lodge again at a caravan fera, after a very fatiguing jour ney; for the Bulgarian kept his horses to a round trot, and the passengers were forced to sit cross legged in the bottom of the coach, after the Turk ih manner.,The
The. next night they passed at the village of Ca. funchiupri, in the neighbourhood of which is a bridge, two miles in length, supported on one hundred and sixty-four stone arches; and on Sues. day the 22d, having travelled thirty miles, in the space of which they met with several companies of janissaries; they in the evening arrived at Adrian. noble, situated in forty-three degrees of latitude this city finds in such a pleasant country, that Amurath the Turkish emperor removed his court hither from Bursa; and his example was followed by some of his successors, fa that the number of its inhabitants increased. Though it extends to be tween seven and eight miles in compass, it contains nothing beautiful: the houses are chiefly built of wood and clay, and the streets so dirty, that a nan muff wear boots in winter so that it looks more like a great village than a city. The walls are ruinous, though the town is encompassed by fe vernal firearms, over which there are stone bridges: it is inhabited by Turks, Greeks, Jews, Armenia. ans, Wallachia, and people of other nations; but the number varies occasionally, because, in the winter, a great many soldiers return hither from the campaign; however, it may be computed at an hundred thousand. The city, which is partly built in the plain, and partly on little swelling hills, exhibits a good shew of shops: yet living is dear, because most things are brought hither from agreal distance. The air is wholesome, and the country delightful in summer, the ground being covered with a beautiful verdure, watered and refreshed b) a number of pleasant rivulets, and in the winter here is plenty of game. Lodgings, however art so scarce, that Gerelli mull have lain in the free bad not a Frenchman accommodated him with room belonging to a friend who happened to be:,Cor
Constantinople; for the soldiers had occupied all the empty apartments.,On Wednesday 23, the doctor went to pay his respect to the French ambassador, who lived be yond the bridge and village of Jenemaret, near the seraglio; and he was courteously received by his excellency, who promised him his protection, which was necessary in a country so replete with cruelty, knavery, and rapine. After dinner, he visited the exchange of Ali Bassa, half a mile in length, a wait arch with six gates, containing three hundred and sixty-five shops on both sides, fur sniffed with all sorts of rich merchandize, kept by Turks, Jews, Armenians, and Greeks, each of whom pays five piasters a month to the heirs of the founder, besides half a psalter to the mosque of Vecerfeli, granted by the grand signior, to whom it btlonged.,On Thursday the 24th, our traveller, under the guidance of the Jew whom he hired for the pur pose, visited the mosque of sultan Selim, which sands on a riling ground in the middle of the city. The outward area is furnished with four gates, and the inner with three: this magnificent flruaure is adorned with thirteen cupolas, and supported by sixteen fine marble pillars, four of which are of a green colour; in the midi of this cloister is a marble fountain, in which the musulman wash themselves, according to the Turkish fashion, when they go to prayers. The mosque has five gates, two of which, leading to the seats of the grand signior, are slut: the cupola in the middle is supported by eight large columns, which with the twelve arches that support the rest, are inscribed with Arabic characters. All around are galleries refining on marble pillars: the pavement is covered with carpets, and from the arches hang great iron branches, with a vait,VOL. VI, IK multitude
multitude of lamps. In the midi of the mosque, is a great square scaffold, raised eight spans above the ground, and enclosed with wooden banisters, on which the mullah preaches to the people; and hard by is a fountain. On the right of the prin cipal nich is the grand signior's tribune, raised in the same manner, and inclosed with lattices; and on the left, appeared an handsome stone pulpit, opposite to which were several little chairs for the mullahs. The cupolas, which are covered with lead, make a glorious appearance when the fun fines; and there are four stately towers at the angles, which afford a noble prospect. In one of these are three staircases leading to the three dis. ferment glories, so contrived, that three several per. sons may ascend them at one time, without meeting ,or seeing one another; although each fair-cafe winds around the tower. From hence our traveller repaired to the old mosque, which is likewise worth seeing, and finds hard by the befallen, a covered place sustained by two rows of pillars in the middle, and containing about two hundred shops furnished with cloth of gold and silver, scimitar, pistols, saddles, bridles, stirrups, and rich furniture for horsemen; and adjoining to this exchange, are the shops of the silversmith and goldsmiths, in a long covered street. At noon, while the door viewed there curiosities, he was surprized with a disagreeable sort of music, to which a multitudes Turks made a response, in a very barbarous tone; and, upon inquiry, he found they were praying for the grand signior after dinner, his Jew conduced him to the pa i:ee of the grand vizir, which exhibited nothing magnificent or remarkable. They first entered a great court, in which are the stables: from this they passed into another, adorned with a fountain in the middle, and saw several persons on horfebackat,tendin
tending the minister; while a number of people flood expecting audience, on a sopha or place raised in the forepart of this area.,On their return, they met a bride going home with her new married husband. Fifty Turks rode on horseback, two and two, and the bridegroom on the left, which is the upper hand in this country then followed the bride in a close coach, fol. lowed by two other carriages for tate: as they proceeded, they saw the French ambassador mount ed on a dun horse, and attended by eight footmen dad in red, two gentlemen in blue, and four janissaries a foot. The last thing he saw that day, worth notice, was one of the Turkish schools, be sore which, flood a number of women holding their children by the hand: within fide he beheld abundance of garments hanging all round the school, and six persons playing upon instruments. About this season of the year, five hundred suits of cloaths are annually given away to the poor scholars at the expence of the public and the door actually saw several children new cloathed from head to foot in his pretence.,On Friday, being Christmas day, Gemelli having taken the sacrament at the church of the Ragufians, where mass was said bathe French ambassador's chaplain, he went to ife the grand signior go to the mosque of sultan Selim ; but before he arrived, the emperor had gone in so that he was obliged to wait for his coming out; and in the mean time, he surveyed his equipage. The coach was of wood, gilt with lattices open every way but behind, co vexed with fine red cloth and lined with yellow fisk, bordered with sprigs of gold. On each side were sixteen silver nobs gilt for ornament, and the carriage being high, was provided with a little silver ladder of three steps. It was drawn by six indifferent white horses, upon the foremost of,K 2 which
which rode the postilion, while the coachman sat upon the third on the left. Within were Come quilts folded, for two persons to sit upon, and a greater number it would not hold; in a word, it was such an equipage as any private gentleman might be supposed to maintain. In the court of the mosque were two hundred Janissaries, with their high caps, worn upon solemn occasions, made of white felt, and ending in two points that fall down upon the back, but stiffened before with a silver plate curiously wrought and gilt. Betides these, were eighteen chiaus on horseback, with little black feathers in their Turbans, fifty courtiers well dressed, and thirty mounted ballads, with pera. midas caps of a cinnamon colour. Several boltangis wore round red caps, and indeed all the attendants ere distinguished by what they wear on their heads, for there is no uniformity in the other parts their dress. The coach was surrounded by twelve obadifcis, belonging to the grand signior's bed chamber, having little white caps edged with gold, and adorned with two plumes of different colours. The aga of the janissaries wore the same sort of cap edged with cloth of silver, and without sea tiers. Over and above all these attendants, were fourteen pages, called cby the Turks ifciogan, dressed after the Roman manner, in silk wrought with gold; under which they had wets with golden fringes, and breeches of crimson sattin. These walk a foot, and wear caps of silver gilt, in the form of chamber-pots, with black plumes handing upright before prayers being ended, the donor saw the grand signior Hamet II. come out of the mosque and sep into the coach. He was of a low feature and brown complexion, corpulent, round faced; his black beard began to grow grey; he seemed to se about the age of fifty, wore a white garmelnt,,and
and herons feathers in his turban, which was em bellied with diamonds. The flatter, who carries his sword and drives away the flies in summer, went into the coach with him and sat next the horses. Then he was saluted with the shouts of the people, and these had accompanied the disagreeable concert of musick which was performed while he prayed in the mosque. The carriage passed through a lane of the janissaries, who food in attitudes of reverence and humility, with their heads inclining to their bosoms; and he was fol lowed by the chiaus and other officers in the order already described.,Hamet took pleasure in playing upon a Turkish instrument, like a guitar, which he accompanied with his voice, to divert the melancholy he had contracted in an imprisonment of forty years.,On Saturday the 26th, Gerelli crossing both branches of the river 'ungia, on two stone bridges, visited the great mosque called Gregui- Jenimaret, which is extremely magnificent, and endowed with vast revenues, expended in charitable uses, such as the instruction of children, and the maintenance of mad people, and the poor, to whom they distribute weekly one thousand eight hundred pounds of boiled rice, with a proportionable quantity of butcher's meat. That same day, the doctor dined with the French ambaffaq dor, in company with a gentleman of that nation called the count de Frill, and marquis of Orate, who attends the vizier when he takes the field, to improve the military discipline of the Turks, and dire the operations of the camDaign.,Next day, our traveller went to see the palace of Caca Muftapha, once grand vizier, and-strangled after the siege of Vienna, though married to the ful tan's own sister, who fill resided in the house, which was inferior to all the noted structures of Italy.,K 3 Thence
Thence he repaired to a vaulted place, a quarter of a mile in-length, full of shoemaker's shops, the rent of which is paid to the mosque of sultan Se irn that stands in the neighbourhood. His next excursion was to see the jervis dance at the mura. die or monastery of the rich monks, seated on a ri-ing-ground within the city ; and in his way, he saw. a number of people endeavouring to have the bess cut of a dead horse, which had full expired in the streets. Ascending the hill, he put off his floes, according to the custom of the country, and en. tered the mosque, which, though mali, was very neat and well ornamented. Then he visited the cells, and some other apartments, where he saw a great number of poor people receiving plates of boiled rice, with a little flesh and bread, as alms, difiri- bt.e. every Monday and Thursday. After noon day-prayers, the Superior, with the devises or monks, went into a room near the mosque, in the mist of which was a square scaffold raised above the ground, and inclosed with banisters. There was another ten fiefs higher along the wall, and at one end of it a kind of closet, which eight devises entering, played on pipes and beat drums, by way of accompaniment to one who fungi and when the music ceased, another of them preached with great violence of voice and gesture. At the upper end of the room, were two chairs, raised above the floor; in one of which the superior sate down, while the other was occupied by an old man in a red garment, at whose feet fate another senior in green. As for the rest of the devises who continued on the scaffold, their habit is not uniform; yet all their caps must be of white wool, made in a conical form: though those of the superior and the two old men were distinguished by borders resembling the lower part of a turban, and they wore towels about their necks.,One
One of the devises, upon the upper scaffold, began the ceremony of turning round, to a dismal tune; after which the superior expounded some verses of a book which were pronounced by a devise who sat by his side, while the rest listened; with their heads hanging down, in token of humility and devotion. This exposition being finish ed, the superior descended from his chair, and sat down cross-legged upon a carpet: the devise re need his dismal song from the scaffold, and re cited something from a little book in a tone fill more dolorous; then was heard the music of the pipes and drums, to which the superior, and h:s; companion clad in green, danced in a fantastic manner. When these ridiculous gesticulations were performed, and the superior had resumed his place, eight devises passed his chair and nate a low reverence, which he returned finding; then laying aside their upper garments, so as to remain in a kind of short jacket and petticoat, they again. passed in a review before him one by one, and hav ing repeated the obeisance, they began to turn round with their arms spread, and one foot fixed upon another, regulating the velocity of this pain ful vertigo, which continued half a quarter of an hour, by the faster or slower time of the music. The first whirl ceased when a certain signal was given; then the superior flood up and bowed to the performers, who returned the compliment and began the second rotation, which lasted as long as the first ; and was succeeded by a third of the same duration. At length, the superior advancing with his old companion, whirled about on one foot in the same manner with great dexterity, while the instruments above played, and one of the eight devises accompanied them with his voice; and his revolution ended with the usual prostration. Then an old man recited from a book; the fipe-,K 4- horror
repeated every word; the whole congregation answered in a frightful tone of acclamation; the devises kilTed the superior's hand and withdrew; and thus ended this very extraordinary piece of religious mummery.,Our traveller returning home with this strange ceremony, found a bundle of cloaths at the door of his apartment!, which his landlady told him bek-ng(d to a Turk just arrived from Constant. noble, who demanded the chamber, and threat. end to turn out Gemelli, as a Christian dog and an infidel. Monsieur Varclive, who provided this Jodgit.g for the dcclor, had expostulated with this musulman upon the iniquity of his demand, and plains t, Id h m that the Frai;k who had hired the chamber was not a man to relinquish his right; but the other would not hear reason: on the con tray, leasing his baggage at the door, he had genre to the cadi, to obtain an order for the expulsion of Gemelli, who, in the mean time, took possession of his apartment, which he resolved to maintain against all intrusion. The Turk finding the cadi deaf to his solicitations, returned end knocked at the door; but our traveller refused ad pittance, and he was fain to take up his lodging under an open pent-house, where he was exposed to the extremity of the weather, which was ex pensively cold, the ground being covered with snow aloof two feet in depth.,On Wednesday the roth, our traveller saw the chin of Tartary, riding on a dun horse from the seraglio to his palace, that flood about six miles from Adrianople. He was of a middle stature, brown complexion, ferocious asper, and about the age of fourscore. His habit was green, as well as his carpas or cap made in the Tartar fa sion, on which were fixed two feathers crossing each other. He was attended by twenty of his,ownl
own servants on horseback, and the same number sent by the vizier to do him honour.,On Friday. January the it, 1694, the doctor had another opportunity of seeing the grand signior going to mosque he was dressed in a garment of pale red silk; his cap was adorned with a number of jewels; he returned the salutation of the people by bowing his head, and alighted from the coach before the fclettar or sword-bearer: the cavalcade which attended him was disposed in a different manner from that which the doctor had seen the preceding Friday; the prayers lasted about an hour, ad when the sultan came forth, in lieu of the cap he wore a green turban with a white border and had put on a yellow silk vest.,Whar Tavernier relates of his wearing three plumes of feathers in his turban is altogether without foundation, and, of consequence, that circumstance of his bestowing one of them upon the vizier, as a badge of sovereign command, when he takes the field at the head of the forces. That minister, on such occasions, passes under a high scaffold, upon which the grand signior is seated, then dismounting from his horse, profligates him self upon the ground, and a vest or garment given by tie sultan is thrown upon his back; and the same present is bellowed upon all the bashaw that go to war.,On Saturday January the 2d, our traveller saw the prime vizier gp to the seraglio; ie was pre ceded by thirty Chiaus and twice as many Turks of note, who having come from their government,. made court to him for preferment; and he appear ed in a red habit, mounted on a fine black horse,. and followed by sixty servants on foot. Next day, he visited the palace of the mufti, whom he saw go abroad in a coach, attended by twelve persons ; he was then cloathed in green, and wore a large 5 turban
turban of the same colour; but solemn occasion he appears in a white robe.,By means of monsieur Grace, who had some acquaintance in the seraglio, Gemelli was permitted to see part of that structure. He first entered two stables near the palace, in one of which he saw fifty horses for the pages; in the other, the same number very carefully attended for the use of the sultan ; an adjoining apartment contained saddles, bridles, targets, foot cloths, and other rich, fur nature of gold and silver, adorned with rubies, emeralds and turquoise stones. Before the palace, is an area a mile i in ompas, in the midst of which is a fountain, and the pole on which they hoist the standard of Mahomet, in case of any mutiny or infurreci on.,The seraglio, which in the Persian tongue fig. niches a royal house, is a regular structure built on a place near the river Tungia, about two miles in circuit, and furnished with seven gates, betides those belonging to the gardens, which extend fe vernal miles in circumference. A hostage con ducted them through the largest and most frequented gate, to an area of one hundred paces square, co vexed all round for the conveniency of those who pass from one gate to another. The doctor enter ing the first and second kitchens on the right, saw several kalvagges or cooks in their white caps, dressing victuals for the grand signior and his court; and in the third, were the confectioners making sherbet and sweet-meats. Opposite to the great gate are the apartments of the Tfcroglans or pages, like long hal's, in which they perform all their ex excises, with a balcony above for the women; but the third gate leads into the emperor's apartments, which 'are not allowed to be fern.,Hamet II. the reigning sultan, was altogether un acquainted with the world, in consequence of Lis,loig
long imprisonment, but very much addicted to wo men; yet he delighted in doingjuffice, in punish ing vice, and in rewarding merit. By his sultana he had two sons at a birth, of whom Ibrahim alone survived: but he had two nephews alive, the sons of his brother Mahomet IV. who were kept in? confinement, according to the barbarous policy ofi the Ottoman family chap. V. An account of tie oicers belonging to the imperial court. HE apartments of the women are guarded by black eunuchs, of the mois deformed figure: and frightful aspect, chosen for their hideous de. forty, and castrated close by the belly-they are very numerous, yet live in great regularity and subordination, under the command of a chief, called Kiclaragafi,. or keeper of the virgins, Who' superintends the apartments of the women; and is of such great authority, that he speaks to the ful tan whenever he pleases, and acquires vast treasures by sharing the presents which the bashaw-make to the sultans for their protection. Betides these, there are a great number of white eunuchs cut in the same manner, who-take care of the grand fig nor's lodgings, under a chief called caps-aga, who is always near the sultan's perrin, introduces all embassadors, and acquires vast wealth, because no person can go in or come out from the apartments without his permission Nor are these miserable wretches confined to the sultan's seraglio; great numbers are distributed through all Turky, as the keepers of private harass, and they are chiefly furnished from the kingdoms of Stan, Butars, Pegu, Aracan, and Golconda, the poor inhabits 6 ants
wants of which cause their children to be cut for sale. As many die of the operation, those who are castrated close to the'belly will fetch six hun. died crowns a-piece; whereas those who are de privet of testicles only, will hardly sell for the sixth part of that price. As for the blacks, they are supplied from the coast of Africa, and valued in proportion to their natural defects; but, so wretched ate these poor creatures, that they can. not discharge their urine, without the help of a pipe thrust into the passage the grand vizier himself cannot see the sultan, without being conduced by the capi-agafi, who by a privilege peculiar to himself, wears a turban and rides on horseback within the seraglio: he attends the emperor to the door of the sultana's apartment, and is allowed ten aeschines a day for his table next to him in authority are the four nozada- bafchi, or governors of the forty pages belonging to the bed chamber; namely, the fera-agafi, who has the charge of all the grand signior's apart ments, and is chief of the pages who keep the linen, and attend the sultan when he travels: his deputy, called feraikifadafi, whose business it is to change the carpets of the seraglio, every half year; the chaznadar-bafci, or emperor's privy-purfe-bear- er; and the kilargi-bafii, or chief of the pages of the kilar, who keeps the sherbet and liquors for the emperor's own drinking. The other officers of the seraglio are, the great falconer, called do gangi-bafci; the dokedar, who dresses the emperor the kikabdar, who holds his stirrup; the le letter, v.ho carries his scimitar; the hammargi- barce, who takes care of the baths; the ciamaci- baici, who superintends the wafting of the linen; and gentle, ch es of the bowmen, who praise hooting every Friday, iii the area before the pa-,ldce.
lace. These ports are filled from Ifeioglans, and wear cloaths according to their own fancy; but a long red cap falling back, distinguishes the bo flanges, some of whom look to the gardens of the seraglio, while others take care of the horses; and a third set row in the barges, when the emperor takes his diversion upon the water: they are aza- moans, or young Christian laves taken in war, or payed in tribute; nevertheless their chiefs are greatly respected by the bashaw, who purchase his good-will with considerable presents, because he is a personal favourite with the sultan, in consequence of being near his person, and fleering his barge when he is on the water. A long conical cap, of a cinnamon colour, is the distinguishing badge of the baltagis, who cut wood, attend the grand signior on. horseback, and stand at the gates of the first and second courts of the seraglio.: though these last are likewise known by the name of capitis, and their chief or bassa executes the emperor's com mands.,Those who wear the white cap, ending in a- sharp point, are called salvage, and employed in the kitchens, under the authority of the kifargr- bafci; tho' every distant kitchen has its own fu divisor, called aragi-bafci, besides the muchick- enuri, or progenitor who furnishes the kitchens and tables of ambassadors, according to the digression of the grand vizier. The last officer of note is the kaftaler-agafi, or director of the infirmary, who takes notice of all that enter or go out of the seraglio, and takes care that no wine is intro duced.,All there officers and servants, that sometimes amount to ten thousand, are born of christian pa rents, and either bought or enslaved by the ba. shows of the provinces, whq present them to the grand signior the handsomest of there are educated
dated in the seraglio, trained up in-the Mahomet. tan religion, and divided into two classes; namely, the azamoglans, or stronger sort, bred up to the offices of baltagis, halvagis, and boflangis, and the ifcioglans, being those of the better sort, designed for the greater employments of the empire, and chosen for their superior capacity. They pass thro' four chambers called odds, in which they learn their exercises, under the inspection of the white eunuchs, by whom they are cruelly beaten for the leaf fault, and otherwise treated with great severity so that their patience is sufficiently tried be fore they arrive at the fourth chamber, from whence they are taken to fill the highest posts in the em pire. But, the moll interesting part of the fera. iso is constituted by about five or six hundred beautiful maidens, either taken in war, payed in tribute, or sent by the bashaw as presents for the pleasure of the sultan's all the bashaw the four principal are the vi tier assent, or grand vizier, the caimacan, governor of Constantinople, the bassa of the sea, and the aga of the janissaries : there officers are in such great au authority, that they often depose the sultan; and yet, for very small offences, the emperor will frequently deprive them of their lives. The vizier is distinguished in the field by three horse-tails, by way of standard; but the other bashaw, as well as the begs, have but two; whereas, the grand signior, when he commands in person, orders seven-to be displayed, in order to denote his dominion over fe even parts of the world. Those horse-tails are said to have been first used in a battle, during which the Turkish standard being lors, the general cut ting off an horse's tail, ordered it to be fastened to a pole, and advanced against the enemy, over whom he obtained a complete victory.
The grand vizier is general of the armies, keep er of the great feal, president of the divan, and prime-minister: the caimacan or governor of Con .ftantinople is his lieutenant, and performs his functions in his absence: the bassa of the sea is admiral of the fleet, and commands the begs or governors of the maritime provinces, as well as the captains of the grand signior's gallies.,The aga of the janissaries, called by the Turks Fingers Agafi, is the only person who dares ap proach the sultan, without crossing his hands upon his stomach, and commands the formidable body of the janissaries, amounting to one hundred thou sand men.,The begler begs a& like sovereigns in general governments, having under their command fangiac- begs, or governors of particular provinces the spahis and machines are considerable bo dies of horse, subsisting upon lands allotted to them by the grand signior. The chiaus are messengers who attend the sultan on horseback, and are dispatched occasionally with his commands. The emerahur-bafci acts as first gentleman-usher in the seraglio, and goes before the grand signior when he appears in public. The caragi-bafci is chief of the tax-gatherers, who, for defraying the publick expence, exam five ducats a head from every Christian (Franks excepted) and Jew that resides in the Levant, while the Armenians are quit at an easy rate the muphti is the chief of their religion as well as of their law, in the distribution of which he shares with the cadi, or chief-jultice.,The cadetefchers of Natolia and Romania are the only judges that can try the soldiers; and to there are Subordinate in civil affairs, the mullets, or judges of great cities, as well as the cadi and,the
the naipis, who administer justice in particular towns and villages the priests that serve in the mosques are called mans; the readers of the law are known by the name of hogias: the sheikhs are the preachers, and the muffins call the people to prayer from the mi norets. The devises are a kind of monks, tho' they do not live in monasteries, but in their own houses, with their wives and children, upon an allowance granted by the sultan; yet they are oh. lived to repair at certain hours to their monastery r.es.,C H A P. VL The author's jaune) to Constantinople. G Gemelli having taken his leave of the baron GS de Chateauneuf, the French ambassador, hired horses for himself and his man, at five ducats a piece, and setting out for Constantinople, with a small caravan of forty people, lay the first night at the village of Hapfa, after having rode twenty miles through plains covered with snow. Next day his journey was much more fatiguing and disagreeable; for he was quite frozen a-horseback before they took up their quarters in the town of Bergamo, about five and thirty miles distant from the place they left in the morning. On the third day they travelled but fifteen miles, to the village of Cale siren: the fourth, which was Thursday, brought them twenty miles farther to Chorea; on Friday thee reached the shore of the freight, passed thro' the village of Siverli, and lodged at Barbados, as ter a journey of five and twenty miles. On Saturday having travelled fifteen miles, they passed through Check-mania, a village situated upon the straight, from which there is an inlet about eight,miles
miles in compass; and over this there are four stone bridges: and here is a great fishery; for the people close up the whole mouth of this inlet, ex kept a small space in the middle, wi h pallisadoes, and catch the fish by means of a wooden house placed in the gap. When they had travelled eight miles farther, they pasSed over another bridge of the same sort, where also abundance of sill is caught in the same manner.,On Sunday, after a progress of ten miles farther, over hill and dale, the doctor arrived at Constantinople and was obliged to lie upon boards in a Greek's house at Galata, because the inn was full of company: and during this whole journey, far from finding the civility and hospitality so much extolled by Tavernier, he paid every night at the rete of two carlines (about one Smiling) for the boards he lay upon, and fared in other refers as at a common inn, though there was hardly any con leniency for dressing victuals, and even little good provision to be had for money. It was, in c sequence of this hard living, that Gemelli, when he hired a room in the inn, eat so voraciously at the ordinary, that a Frenchman turning to his com pinions, said, " This man eats like the devil him " self.',Confiantinople, the metropolis of the Ottoman empire, called by the lurks Tambour, or Stamp pol, from the answer made by the inhabitants of Romelia, who being asked whither they were bound, replied, Es 'r,'v 7Tror ; eis ten colin; that is, " to " the city :" Constantinople, I say, is situated on the streight of the Black Sea, formerly called the T gratian Bosphorus, in forty-two degrees of la latitude, of a triangular figure, two sides of which are washed by the sea, forming the finest port in Europe. It rises like antient Rome, on seven hills, which greatly contribute to its beauty, arn the,heaithi-
healthiness of its situation; it extends: about sis. teen miles in compass, including the seraglio and its gardens, and is said to contain about a million of soul. Though the houses in general are low and ill-built of mud and timber, which render them subject to fires, the city is dignified with lofty mosques, palaces, and public structures of great magnificence, as well as adorned with several fine fountains of excellent water, conveyed from a great defiance in curious aqueducts, and with bazars or markets, abounding with all sorts of merchandise and provision of fish, flesh, game,. fruit, and bread, excellent in their kinds, at very reasonable rates.,In this capital the grand signior has two fera. liss, in c.-c of which, called the old seraglio, are shut up the women of his predecessor, and the other is the place of his residence when he lives at Constantinople. It is situated in the eastern part of the city, washed on two sides by the sea, and surrounded by a single wall. with old towers, in ire of which the azamoglans keep guard,. and hinder ail persons from approaching. On the top of these turrets the sultan has built a summer-house, from whence he enjoys a most delightful prospect of Asia. The apartments are confused and icon. lenient, the gardens irregularly planted with cy press and other trees: towards the sea are some galleries, cased on the outside with marble, and painted and gilt within, where the grand signor takes the air when he comes to divert himself with sitting. On the point that lies opposite to Seu. turn are several pieces of cannon, planted level with the ground for the defence of the place; and here lie several barges, prettily gilt and decorated for the service and diversion of the sultan; besides a number of smaller gates that open all around the seraglio, the three principal are those of St. Sophia,,that
that lead to as many spacious courts. In the first of there are the apartments of the azmoglans, and the infirmary for the slaves of the seraglio; the middle part of the second court is planted with cypress-trees, and on the sides are the kitchens of the seraglio, the stables, the divan, or council chamber, the hanna, or treasury, and the odes or lodgings for the ifcioglans. In the third court is a great hall where the sultan gives audience to the ambassadors; and farther in are the odaliche, or apartments of the maiden slaves kept for his plea sure, and inaccessible to all but himself and the eunuchs that attend them.,On the other side of the freight, which is but half a mile broad, (lands the city of Galata, as the suburbs of Constantinople; its walls extend two niies in circuit; the site is partly on hill, and part ly on dale; the buildings are elegant and commo pious, and on the top of the highest eminence, stands a castle, by means of which the Venetians. kept possession of the city for eight years. Here the greatest part of the Franks reside, and enjoy liberty of conscience, and the free exercise of their religion, under a catholic patriarch, served by je suits, capuchins, dominicans and reckless. A num ber of European Christians reside also in Pea ad joining to Galata, under the immediate protect-ion of the ambassadors of the empire, France, England, Venice, and Holland.,Gemelli having visited the places, crossed the streight to see a monastery of devises, in the vil lage of Bifcitari, and in his return saw another fe seraglio, built by sultan Mahomet, but at present running to ruin. Then he repaired to Frontal, where fish is taken in great plenty, and from thence went to the village of Topana, where he viewed their founder for cannon, and arsenal, at the gate of which was a prodigious large culverin, and an-other
other piece of three different bores, which discharge. ed three balls at once his next excursion was to Constantinople, with a Jew interpreter, who conduced him to the mosque of St. Sophia, a part of which the Turks have destroyed, preserving only the dome, or middle part of the old church, one hundred and thirteen feet in diameter: about the mosque are two rows of galleries, supported by a number of pillars. The great cupola is raised upon arches, sustained by large columns cased with marble; the arches and part of the body of the mosque are of mosaic work, exhibiting several figures, and the pavement and pulpit are of marble; and on the right of the niche is a good closet, to which the grand signior ascends by a private fair-care. In this mosque the Turks keep a stone, on which (they say) the Virgin washed the linen of the in. sant Jesus; and they (hew you the tomb of the em pero Constantine, illuminated with a great num ber of lamps the doctor having gratified the iman with ten paraa<, was permitted to ascend to the first gallery, by a large arched marble fair-cafe, where he found seven spaces like chapels, and on every side three arches that leave a large interval between the wall and the gallery. Every arch, on the inside, is de coated with five columns of green marble, betides four of a larger size, of white marble, tory both sides next the wall. Over the great gate, which makes the seventh arch, are four other columns of green marble. The arches of the gallery are of mosaic work, but the figures of the saints and angels have been defaced by the Turks, and their places filled up with Arabic intcriptions.,Two long arches lead to this famous temple: at the end of the first are two gates, and four in the middle; the second, which is mosaic, has five in,front
front and two on the sides; within it are nine doors, the middlemost of which is of brass: the two on the sides are open, and the other six kept slut; and besides these, there are four on the sides and two behind the nich, or high altar, opposite to the great seraglio.,At the angles are four minores; and before the front is a porch where the mahometan women sometimes say their prayers. In a word, the structure is so prodigious, and the walls so thick, that it seems to have been originally intended for a for tress, rather than for a place of worlhip.,Besides the dwellings of the mans, we see on the left side, detached from the mosque, the tombs of several sultans and their children, rising in cu poles covered with lead, and painted within; the walls are cased with marble; the floor is covered with carpets, and each is illuminated with two great flambeaux gemelli having examined these particulars of St. Sophia, went next day to see the mosque of sultan Hamet in the Hippodrome, which, though smaller, exceeds the other in beauty and magnificence. The Hippodrome, now called Atmedan, where the fol tiers exercise, is a large space, in the middle of which appear the figure of three serpents inter twining, a piece of excellent workmanship, which the barbarians have not yet destroyed. A little lower (lands a tall obelisk, almost consumed by age; and on the other side a pyramid, erected on four round pillars of brass a span high, having a pede tial made of one square piece of marble, inscribed all round with Greek and Latin verses, some of which are still legible, as the following.,"Difficilis quondam Domini parere ferments " Justus, & extineis palmas portage tyrannis,,Omnia Theodoric cedent, oblique perenni.",The
The figure of the emperor Theodosius stands on the top of this obelisk, which rises about fifty feet high, and exhibits a number of hieroglyphics, which evince it to be of Egyptian workmanship from the Atmedan the door vent to see the Jaflir Bazar, or flave-market, which is a place en. closed, having trees in the middle, and around it walks or galleries, under which are the saves and their sellers, who hold them by the end of a cloth; and, after having prayed for the grand signior, the crier proclaims the price of each ; then he who has a mind to buy, uncovers the slave's face, and ex amines all the different parts of his or her body, as a dealer handles the cattle he wants to purchase from hence our traveller repaired to the Bifcif. ten, a covered place full of rich shops, exhibiting a brilliant shew of cloths, arms, and horfe-furni- ture, adorned with embroidery and jewels: and, in his return to Galata, took a view of the Jane. farchi, on the flore of the streight, a flruAure con sifting of two long arches, containing shops of druggists and linen-drapers, where the plague ge neatly breaks out, the air being maitland unwholesome Next day he returned to Constantinople, and visited the celebrated mosque of the favourite sultana, mother to the reigning emperor, a build ing of incredible beauty and elegance: and his next expedition was to the old quarter or corps da Garde of the janissaries, called Efquiodalar, in closed with high walls, and affording lodgings for some thousands of janissaries and their officers. In the middle is a great court, with several fountains for their use: and there is another quarter called Gnegni Oar, or New House, where the reit of them reside after these excursions, Gemelli visited the mosques of Soliman and Bajazet, crossed the streight to Scum tares, which is a large, open, pleasant village, well,iupplied
supplied with bazars, greens, and fruit; and from thence repaired to Leander's town, called by the Turks Chifculafi, situated in the midst of the streight, on a plain rock, where, nevertheless, there is fresh water. He afterwards went to survey the famous pillar in the square of Aurea Bazar, erected in honour of the emperor Arcadia and Honoris: it consists of several pieces sculptured in basso relievo, like Trajan's pillar at Rome, and fe cured by iron hoops, which prevent it from falling to ruin. Within there is a winding fair-cafe to the top, and a space in which one may walk round the capital. The Turks would not suffer Gemelli to take its altitude, but, as near as he could guess, it might be about one hundred and forty seven feet high. He then went to see the aqueduct called Cheer, raised on a great number of brick arches; and passed through Vifir-Xan, a great square build ing, full of (hops in which linen is printed. In this neighbourhood stands a pillar of red marble, sixty spans high, erected in the year 440, by Con slanting, whose statue was placed on the top, from whence it fell down. The pedestal enclosed with a wall, and inscribed with Greek letters, signify ing the date of its erection: it is surrounded with eight wreaths of (tone running up to the top, and hooped with iron to prevent its falling a sacrifice to the ravages of time. Gemelli thence proceeded to the Almeida, to see the palace built by Ibrahim Bassa, son-in-law, and favourite to the sultan Soli man II. This structure stands on the side of the Hippodrome, and is said to contain six hundred a- apartments; but all access to it is denied to strangers hither the grand signior comes to behold the public sports, at the circumcision of the Ottoman princes next day the door encompassed the whole city, and in this circuit saw the place called the Sevens Towers,
Towers, a state prison furnished with good accom. notation for hostages, and those delinquents whom the sultan does not chuse to put to death. Here the sultan Ibrahim was strangled by the janissaries who mutinied in the year i648, and Osman met with the same fate in the same place in the year 1622. This is a square castle, which has been built by the Christians, as appears from the muti lated figures of angels and saints, still visible in basso relievo on the walls. Our traveller likewise saw the ruins of a building said to be the palace of Constantine, near the gate of Agri Caps, among which a young fellow had, about seven years be. fore, found a large diamond that was sold for a groat, and afterwards appeared to be worth one hundred thousand crowns, consequently was seized by the sultan. The Efolui-Serrai is a building, in which the women belonging to the former sultan are kept for life, unless some one of them happens to be given in marriage to a bashaw. The seraglio and its gardens are encompassed by an high wall two miles in circuit, and the gate is guarded by janissaries and capigis.,Gemelli, as he returned from a celebrated mosque, called Scifade-Gramifi, built by the sultan's Ton, was pursued by two janissaries, who, after having searched his pockets, conducted him as a spy into the presence of a certain officer, who examined him in the Italian language; and being informed that the d-for travelled out of curiosity, dismissed him on account of his being a stranger, and advised him to make the hest cf his way to Galata, and never return to Constantinople. Indeed nothing could be more hazardous than our author's strolling about the streets without a Turkish conductor; especially at that time, when Constantinople W'ai governed by a brutal caravan, a pro'eflcd enemy of the Christians, who had ordered a F'renchmni,to
to be bastinado for wearing yellow {hoes,.and even threatened to punish the domestics of foreign am ambassadors for the smallest offence they should hap pen to commit: nay, the Dutch ambassador him self, who was fond of shooting pheasants, which are in great plenty at Belgrade, within six miles of the city, was given to underhand by this brutal musulman, that if ever he should go thither again for that diversion, he would cause him to be hang ed before the gate, without any ceremony thus cautioned, Gemelli returned, with great expedition to Galata, and in his way visited the house and church of the Greek patriarch, which laR is narrow, dark, and low, lighted by a few silver lamps; on the left is the patriarch's feat, railed upon four steps, and on the right a fragment of our saviour's pillar next day the doctor hired a boat to divert him. self on the streight, from whence he enjoyed a noble prosper of Constantinople and the neigh pouring towns. He went ashore at the arsenal, where he saw a number of gallies, galliots, and brigantines on the flocks, besides those that were afloat, and twenty men of war of the line, built in the Black Sea. The wet docks are extremely convenient; and close by the freight, sands the house of the captain bashaw, a very elegant and commodious structure. The 'lore of this streight is adorned with a number of pleasure houses, and in particular with the famous palace and garden cf Serra Badifcia, surrounded with fine rows of cypress trees, and other gaudy ornaments which attract and delight the eye of every behold erin a few days after this expedition, our author had the satisfaction of hearing that the caimacan was removed from his government, on account of his brutality to musulman, Jews, and Christians, VOL. VI. L who
whom he had oppressed without distinction for about three months: that same day Gemelli met with the son of Don Joseph Marchese of Messina, who exercised the trade of a vintner at the village of Carachioy, where his father had earned his bread in the same manner, before he was released from his captivity.,In consequence of the caimacan's deposition, the door ventured to cross over once more to Con. flantinople to visit Marian's pillar, which stands in the court-yard of a house belonging to a private Turk, near the quarter of the janissaries. It is one piece of variegated marble, about fifteen spans high, with its capital of the Corinthian or. der, tn which was a square sone representing four eagles at the four corners; but he did not see the Latin inscription on the pedestal, which was sunk into the ground chap. VII. 7Te a.sth;r's voyage to Smyrna, from whine he departs for Bursa. G Gemelli intending to go by land to Persia,with the caravan, embarked on board of a Turkish chamber, bound for Smyrna, which, as ter a run of thirty miles, came to an anchor in an open road on the side of Natolia. The wind shift ing next day, they were obliged to tack off the island of Marmot, and four others, that supply almost all Constantinople with wine, at a very mo derate price, three pints being sold for about the value of three farthings. They were detained three days by contrary winds, before they arrived at Gallipoli, where Gemelli was again entertainment
at the house of the Jewish vice-consul, and that same evening Uffin-Vizer-Baffa entered the city with a retinue of two hundred persons on horseback, in his way to Constantinople, to supply the place of the deposed caimacan, who was sent to the govern ment of Derberker, metropolis of Mesopotamia.,On Friday February the 5th, the doctor pro needed on his voyage, and going ashore at the castle of Natolia, was very rudely treated by the French vice-consul, who represented him as an im pastor to the aga; but, notwithstanding his ma lice, that officer suffered our traveller to go on board unmolested; and on Tuesday the vessel was obliged to put in at Tenedos, where he found two Frenchmen, with a Venetian and his wife dressed in man's apparel; and met with good cheer, and excellent Muscadine wine very cheap, at the house of a Greek priest who kept entertainment for travel rs.,From hence the vessel set sail on Monday, in company with several other Turkish chambers entered the straits of Baba, and next day arrived at Foci, where the door hired two horses for a piastre, to carry him to Smyrna, which was at the distance of forty miles; however, the wind being fair next morning, he resolved to go by sea, and going out of the harbour of this small town, where there is safe riding for ships, he saw a little cable, with nine pieces of cannon level with the surface of the water. In the afternoon they arrived at Smyrna, after a tedious passage of one and twenty days, owing to the ignorance and sloth of the Turk ifh sailors, who at the same time treat their Chris tian passengers with great insolence and contempt gemelli hired a room at the khan of the Arme nians, where the Persian caravan puts up, and, during Shrovetide, was sumptuously entertained by the French, Dutch, and English consuls who main-,L 2 gained
gained a friendly intercourse one with another not. withstanding the war which raged between. their rerpeaive nations but of all these the French con ful is of the highest consideration among the people of the countrymen the second day after Gemelli's arrival, the shock of an earthquake was felt at Smyrna, and re. seated next day with the same violence : while he said in this place a caravan arrived from Persia, consisting of one hundred and twenty camels laden with silk; but as the merchants would not venture to set out with a small company, for fear of rob. boers, our author altered his design of travelling through Natolia. Meanwhile he amused himself very agreeably with shooting and other diversions, under the auspices of the European consuls and factors, until his entertainment was interrupted by a very odd accident, which rendered him more cautious of going abroad. He was summoned be fore the French consul by one Brancalione of An con, who insisted upon Gemelli's being John Mass facueva of Messina, of whom Brancalione had re civet force goods, which were seized by the custom house of Smyrna, consequently the said Bran alone demanded, that the receipt he had given should be restored. Though the doctor did all that lay in his power to undeceive him, by telling his name and country, and shewing his hand writ ing, which was different from that of Maffacueva, the Anconefe would not be satisfied, but summon ed him a second time before the consul, who ac tully believed his assertion, though he himself was well acquainted with Mlaffacueva; so much, it seems, did that Sicilian resemble Gemelli, who having used all other remonstrances in vain, at length con ducked the Anconefe to his lodgings, opened his trunks, and produced such writings and credentials as convinced Brancaiione of his mistakes The
The door, notwithstanding this explanation, being afraid that the suspicion of the Anconefe might recur, hired two horses for himself and his servant for fifteen piastres, and agreed to pay ha's that sum for his baggage; then he took leave of all his friends, and set out for Bursa, the capital of Bothnia, with a caravan of an hundred and ten horses and mules, which every fifteen days departs from Smyrna orr this journey. On the first day, which was 'Tuesday the 9th, they travelled thirty miles over, hill and dale, and lay at Mania, a city as large as Smyrna, governed by a cadi, and overlooked by ant old ruinous castle. Here Gemelli was fain to spread his little portable bed upon the bare ground, and lie in his boots, that he might be the better defended from the extreme cold, which seemed to have no effet upon the hardy Turks, who lay snoring dirt the open air, at the foot of a mountain covered with snow. Next day they rode along a causeway, made at a great expence over marshes, at the far ther end of which they crossed a large river on a wooden bridge, and lodged with their befit in a caravan fera, at the village of Cunac, or. as the Turks call it, Balsamic. On Thursday, they travelled two and thirty miles in ten hours, without halting, so that Gemelli was obliged to use his panel for a table, and eat as he jogged along. His bed was that night made in the manger of the ca ravanfera: nevertheless the Turks were civil to him, and a Moor of Tunis treated him with melons and coffee. Friday's journey was over uncouth mountains deep covered with snow, which rendered travelling very uneasy and unsafe ; yet, when they had rode about four and twenty miles, they rested about noon at Curiungiach, a village situated among those mountains, and found provision very reason able; tho' the door was scandalized at the info hence of the tartar-is or mule-drivers who, when,L 3 their
their cattle are tardy, drive them on with the ap. pulsation of giaour, which signifies infidel, and is applied indiscriminately to the asses and the Chris. tians.,On Saturday they travelled thirty-three miles, over snow-clad rocks, and lay at Mindoyra, seated in a fruitful plain: their next sage extended three and thirty miles over naked mountains to Sufegreli, a referable place, confiding of a few thatched houses, near a great river, though adorned with two lately caravanferas. On Monday the .I5th they proceeded thro' a plain fifteen miles, to the village of Hiermurgia, where they lodged in a Turk's house, because there was no khan for the accommodation of travellers: next day they made an equal progress through dirty roads to Lubat, which by its walls and towers appears to be an antient city, seated on the river, over which there has been a stately done bridge, now in ruins. Of five Jews that travelled with the caravan, the Turkish tax-gatherer in this place made one a prisoner, be. cause he could not produce the billet specifying that he had paid his head-money or tribute, which for a rich man amounts to four aeschines, while those in ordinary circumstances are taxed at half that sum, and even the poor must pay one fourth of this imposition. Here they embarked upon the river, which is about a quarter of a mile broad, the outlet of a lake through which they passed in sight of several villages, and after a run of four aid twenty miles joined the muleteers at Nacilar, from whence they advanced six miles farther, and lay at the cunac of Haffam-Aga-Chioy, in a stable tat was too little to contain their beasts, tho' they were by this time greatly diminished in number, because the greatest part of the caravan had parted from them at Sufegreli for Sardac, Gallipoli, and Adrianople.,Next
Next day, being Thursday the x8th, after hav ing rid eighteen miles, they arrived at the city of Bursa, or Prufa, seated at the foot of Mount Olympus This was the court of the antient kings of Bithynia before it was subdued by Orphans, the Ottoman emperor, in the year 1300, who establish ed it the metropolis of his empire before Constantinople was taken. At the back of it stands Mount Olympus, extremely high, the top of which is al ways covered with snow, though there are excellent pomegranates about midway i and at the bottom, a number of delightful gardens; and from this mountain flows the river Rhindacus, the greatest of all those that fall into the Propontis.,Bursa, the native country of Afclepiades and Dion Profits, surnamed Chrysostom, may, for its baths, be called the Puzzuolo of Bithynia: it appears ir regular, as being built upori part of two mountains. On a high rock stands the palace of the grand signior, enclosed by a double wall, with towers at proper distances, but now falling to ruin, thro' the negligence and laziness of the Turks: and this site commands an agreeable prospect of the country around, planted with vines, and adorned with gar dens and villages, watered with pleasant firearms and rivulets gemelli having hired a Jew to be his conductor, made a progress through the city, which is larger, more populous, and better built than Smyrna. He visited the biciftan or exchange, the rich bazars, and the seraglio, in which the sultans formerly resided, tho' now going to ruin; the mosque of Amurath- beg, in which are five tombs of sultans; and then he made an excursion to the celebrated baths, about half an hour's walk from the city. The first, call ed in the Turkish language Capligia, comprehends several apartments: in the first, where the bathers undress upon sofas, is a good fountain of cold wa-,L + ter;
ter; and from hence are two doors leading to the bath. On the left is a bed chamber, for such as chuse to slay all night, and other conveniences with cold and hot fountains. Farther on is another room, the roof of which, like the rest, is covered with a cupola full of vent-holes, through which the heat evaporates. Here is a fountain in the middle; and on the sides three small ones lukewarm: and rear it is a third room, very small, with three other springs of water: from hence the people go down by two pair of flairs to the bath, which is seven spans in depth, of a round form, covered with a cupola full of vent-holes, and round it are seven springs of hot water, which they are obliged to temper with cold element, otherwise it would be intolerable. The women's bath is separated from this, tho' on Mondays the.two sexes ex charge their baths; and here Turkish waiters at tend to wash, scrub, and shave the bathers. At the defiance of a stone's throw there is another bath called Chiuchiurtli, the water of which is accounted medicinal, accommodated with a sweat i;;:-rorm and other conveniences, though not so eier.t as the fist, which is paved with marble sines of different colours. Next day, our travel her lifted a third bath, at the distance of three miles from the city, reckoned mineral, and a sovereign cure for many distempers, and constructed pretty really in the same manner with the other two. In his return he went to Bugar-bafchi, to see the services turn round, and entered the mosque of Uli-giami, in the middle of which is a great fountain surrounded with banisters, a venerable structure said to have been built by the first fultarr that fettled at Bursa. These were the most remarkable particulars which Gemelli observed at Burst, which is governed by a molli or cadi, who is changed every year. The air is not very salutary, be-cause
cause the city finds near a number of morasses and slanting-waters, from which a thick fog rises eve ry morning: but provision is reasonable; and there is great plenty offlefh, fill, bread, and excellent fruit ,On Saturday the 20th, Gemelli set out for Mon. magna, which is situated partly on a hill, and partly in the plain, on the shore of a bay made by the freight, thirty miles in compass; and next day em barked on board of a Turkish catch or bark with, three oars, being honoured with the company of a Turkish devise, covered with sheep-skins. On his, head he wore a white cap, with long firings tied. about his neck; from his waist hung several pieces of noble; his right arm was adorned with a bra colet of the same: in his hand he carried' a wand tipped with a piece of ivory to scratch his back, together with a thick club, and by his side hung a. horn which he blew occasionally after having failed and rowed with little success, they landed on the Romelia shore near a mills where our author took up his lodging; and in the morning, leaving his baggage to the care of his ser rant, he took his passage in a small boat for Galata, to which he next day transported his equipage, as ter having been obliged to' pay the duties of the' cuflom-houfe.,Gemelli's purpose in returning to Conflzmninrple was to embark for 'Trebizond on the Black Seas. with some French missionaries, and he accordingly hired a part in the cabbin of a Seek fair for him self and his man, at the rate of twenty-five pi autres; though much against the inclination of the good fathers, who did not choose to be incommoded This bargain being made near the castles built on the opposite sides of Europe and Asia, where the Streight is but a mile over, the door lent his luggage aboard, and amused himself in the mean time in visiting Constantinople and the curs, ofties on the other Shore, till Friday, April the 2d,,L 5. whew
when landing at Darken, to see a fleet of brian. tines and galliots designed to serve against the em pero on the Danube, he was seized by a Turk, and carried before a French renegado captain, who after having examined him touching his business, conduced him to the house of the captain bassa; and by order of that officer, he was sent to the bath or prison, where the slaves are kept. There he was rummaged by the jailor, who examined whether or not he was circumcised, accused him of being a spy, and even tied him up in order to be bastinado, though that operation was not per. formed ; and notwithstanding the minute inquiry of the Turk, the doctor found means to conceal his watch and twenty aeschines, so as that they were not observed. He was, however, loaded with chains, and conducted to the house of an Armenian baker, where he passed the night on the bare boards, in a series of very dreadful reflections: in two days, he was removed to another place where the bread is delivered out to the slaves; and there he lay on a Solander's cloak that swarmed with. ver. min. Though he was forbid to write or talk, he made shift to send an account of his imprisonment to monsieur Mener, a French merchant of Mar. filles, who, together with the deputies of th( French nation, waited on the captain bassa, ane obtained his release, in consequence of assuring tht admiral, that Gemelli was not a Venetian, but Neapolitan, travelling out of curiosity. In confer quench of this representation, his chains wer knocked off, and he found himself delivered frorr that dreary prison where he had lived several day in the midst of a thousand miserable slaves; ths clanking of whose chains and the miseries of who situation, had impressed him with a lively idea o the state of the-damned: nor was this imprison ment the only mortification he had undergone,for
for, in the mean time, the fair had sailed with his, baggage, and even left the jesuits behind, who de layed going aboard until it was too-late.,The Turks believe in God the creator of Hea even and Earth, and in a future state of rewards and punishments, the first consisting in she em braces of fine women, and in plenty of exquisite: meats that will produce no excrement. They a- dore Mahomet as the favourite prophet of God,, and allow of the decalogue as part of his holy. Alcoran. Their sabbath is Friday, on which, however, every man labours at his trade; and' they are obliged to pray five times a day. They begin their fast of Ramadan with the new moon in April, during which, they alledge, the Alcoran descended from Heaven; while this continues, they abstain from food and drink in the day time, but spend the night in eating voraciously. The fast is succeeded by the feast of Bairam, which they celebrate with public rejoicing. They are very of tentations in building mosques and hospitals, give part of their income in charities,, and by bathing. frequently, imagine they purify their souls from sin. Their sons are circumcised at the age of fe even or eight, and this practice they maintain ia, imitation of Abraham, whose law is recommended to them by Mahomet. They are allowed to have four married wives each, at one time, besides as many concubines as they can maintain; and every husband can repudiate his wife, but after having dignified the same woman three times, he cannot espouse her again, until she shall be married and: divorced from another man. He mull restore the' wise's portion, when he turns her away, and in case she shall be pregnant, maintain the fruits (f her womb; and all his children, whether by wise or concubine, are alike legitimate. With respect to Jesus Christ, the Turks believe he was a greater 6 Proper,.
prophet, born of the virgin Mary, conceived by divine inspiration, and that he Was not crucified, but taken up into Heaven, from whence he will descend before the end of the world to confirm the law and religion of Mahomet They pray for the dead, and invoke their saints, to whom they pay great honours, and many of them imagine the soul and. body continue joined to the day of judgment. They respect Jerusalem as the native place of many prophets, but yield extraordinary adoration to mecca, where Mahomet was born, and to Messina, where he died and lies buried; which places they visit in pilgrimage with great devotion. They use no bells, but, at the hour of prayer, the pride ascends their minarets, and gives notice to the people in a loud voice the Turks are haughty, insolent, brutal, de restful, lazy, avaricious, ignorant, and inveterate enemies to the Christians. Their trials are fun :nry, End their causes always decidedly favour of t':ofe who bribe highest for, all their judges and (officers. are venal, corrupted, and. rapacious; yet, their laws are reasonable, were they executed with impartiality. A thief is condemned to be hanged, a murderer to be beheaded, an heretic to be burnt traitor to be impaled, a maimer undergoes the law of retaliation, a person convicted of perjury is led thro' the city on ass back in his shirt, with his face to the tail, which he holds in his hands, his face besmeared with dirt, and his shoulders loaded with stinking guts and garbage; then his branded on the cheek and forehead, and rendered incapable cf bearing testimony for the future. As their tria's are tfhorr, so their executions are speedy, for there es no appeal even from the cadi of a village; and if several ChriiLans (would happen to kill a Turk, after one is executed, the rest may purchase a pardon:. These
The janissaries or infantry are armed with mus quiet and scimitar; the spahis or horsemen have bows and arrows, swords and pistols; but the Asian soldiers fight with lances, axes, and javelins; they are no strangers to the use of cannon, and charge with great fury, tho' in such a disorderly manner, that if their first and second onset be sus gained, they will hardly rally and repeat the at tack.,It is difficult to ascertain the yearly revenue of the grand signior, which not only arises from aT great number of kingdoms in Asia, Europe, and Africa,' but is alfo'derived from the (toils of baflas and other disgraced ministers of the empire, and these fluCtuate at different times. Every man who obtains an employment of any consequence, is ob lived to make a considerable present to the emperor as well as to the chief sultana, the muffs, grand vizier, caimacan, and other persons in favour. In order to defray this expence, the bassa is often obliged to borrow money of the Jews at exorbi. tant interest; and when he has payed his debts and begins to grow rich, the sultan sends him a present of a vest or sword and dagger, which he must ac knowledge by proffering of at least ten times the value; otherwise the next proof of the emperor's attention, is a battle-ax or sword, in token of his indignation, which if the-other does not immediately appease, he will soon lose-his head: nay, the ftlt:n being heir to all the great men of his domi nions, he does not always wait for the natural period of their lives, but, when he knows they' have amassed great riches, by squeezing and op pressing the miserable wretches whom they govern, he finds pretences for putting them to death, and, then seizes all their wealth for his own use.,The Turks wear under-garments reaching down to the ancle, and over this, an upper robe somewhat,thorter,
shorter, with close sleeves, generally of red, blue, or green cloth. Their heads are covered with turbans of the same piece, wrapped about with several rounds of white linnen or silk: their breeches are so long as to be sewed to their hose and socks, and instead of shoes, they wear capuchins or flip. pers, which they take off when they enter a mos. que or the apartment of a friend, that they may not defile the sopha or carpet the dress of the women nearly resembles that of the men, with this difference, that instead of using a turban, they cover the face with two hand kerchiefs, one rising from the nose upwards, and the other descending from the mouth downwards the current coin is various in the various domi nions of this vast empire. At Constantinople, there are pieces of gold called fairies, not so va liable as the Venetian zecchine. In silver, they have the grocer or ducat, the jerum-grofcen or half ducat, betides paras and asperse: in Egypt, there are medicines, and in other kingdoms other sorts of money the country about Constantinople produces all sorts of fruit that thrives in Italy, and there in the utmost perfection, particularly winter melons, pomegranates, grapes, pears, chesnuts, &c. which keep thro' the whole year. The climate of Rome lia and Thrace is very temperate and healthy, and the soil extremely fertile, tho' it lies almost intirely uncultivated, from the sloth of the inhabitants and disposition of the government. The confines of this vast monarchy, are Hungary, Poland, Muscovy Persia, India, Abyssinia, and Lydia; in Eu rope, it is bounded by the Mediterranean, Adriatic and Ionian seas: in Asia by the Euxine and .gean, towards the ocean by the gulphs of Ara bia and Persia, and the chief rivers that divide it from other countries, are the Tanais and Borifihe-,nes.
nes. In a word excepting Italy, France, Germa ny, Spain, and par of Hungary and Greece, this empire comprehends all that the Romans subdued,. and some other provinces that never knew. nor sub mitted to their sway this powerful nation is said to have derived its origin from the vast forests near the Palus Moths; and the foundation of the monarchy was laid by Osman, sirnamed Ottoman, a bold and enterprize, ing Tartar, who being disgusted at some injuries he had sustained from his maker the great clan, re tired with sixty followers to Cappadocia,. where he. lived by rapine, and was joined by persons of dissolute lives and desperate fortunes, to such a num ber as enabled him to make himself master of Cap padocia, Pontus,.Bithynia, Amphibia,. and Cilicia, about the year 1300. After a reign of eighteen years, he was succeeded by his son Orphans, who taking advantage of the intestine broils in which the emperors of Constantinople were involved, sub duet Mysia, Lycaonia, Phrygia, Caria, and Nice, and reigned thirty-fix years his son Amurath took Gallipoli in Thrace, Adrianople, Servia, and Bulgaria, but was at lat vanquished and slain by Lazarus, despot of Servia, leaving two sons, Solyman and Bajazet, the last of whom, having murthered his brother, reduced all Thrace, Thessaly, Macedon, Phocis, Attica, and Bosnia. He besieged Constantinople at two different times, but, was frustrated in his design by Tamerlane great cham of Tartary, who, on the confines of Galatia and Bithynia, gave him battle in the year 1397, where he was totally overthrown, loaded with chains, and cooped up in an iron cage, against the bars of which he knocked out his own brains, after having seen his wife violated by the conqueror. He left three tons, namely, Calais, Mahomet, and Muflapha; the first was put to,death
death by his brother Mahomet, who af-ending th( throne, conquered Wallachia and Macedonia; and fixing his court at Adrianople, died in 1422, after having reigned seventeen years. He was succeeded by Amurath II. who defeated his uncle Muftapha, and transporting his army over to Europe at Galli poli, by the assistance of the Genoese, took the field againfiLadiflaus king of Hungary and Poland, who was vanquished and slain. The victorious Amurath, after a prosperous reign of thirty years, died at Bruggia, and his empire devolved to Ma. hornet II. who railed himself to the throne by the murder of his brother, reduced the city of Con. fiantinople in the year r435, conquered Bulgaria, Dalmatia, Croatia, Trebizond, and Theodosian, now called Cassa, a city at that time belonging to the Genoese.,Having reigned one and thirty years he died in the fifty-eighth year of his age leaving two sons call ed Bajazet and Zizifrnus, the first of whom made many conquests during a reign of thirty-two years, ani was succeeded by his fur Selim, who subdued a .rea: part of Egypt.,The next who ascended the Ottoman throne was Solyman, who reduced Belgrade, Rhodes, Gran and Buda, and died in the forty-seventh year of his reign, leaving the succession to Selim I1. who took Cyprus from the Venetians, but was defeated at sea by the Chrifians, in the famous battle of Lepanto. To him succeeded Amurath III. and as towards Mahomet Ill. who role to the imperial dignity, by embruing his hands in the blood of several brothers.,AÂ£;er his death the empire was possessed by Ache arne, and then by his brother Muftapha, who. was deposed in favour of Osman; but this young prince being unfortunate in a war against the Poles, was, at the instigation of the Mufti, murdered by,the
the emissaries, whose insolence he was resolved to curb: in consequence of his fate, Muflapha was re established on the throne, but afterwards deposed a second time, on account of his inability, and succeeded by AchmetII. brother of Osman, who mount ed the throne at the age of fourteen the next that reigned were Amurath IV. and his brother Ibrahim, who made war on the Venetians and knights of Malta, and was assassinated by his own fubje&sin the year 1648.,To there succeeded Mahomet IV. who subdued Candia, and besieged Vienna with an army of three hundred thousand fighting men, who were totally defeated by the gallantry of the Poles, under their king John Sobiefki. In the following campaigns the Turks lost Buda and Hungary, and imputing their ill fortune to the misconduct of Mahomet, they imprisoned him and his two sons Muflapha and Hamet, and raised to the throne Hamet II. as ter he had been forty years a prisoner. He resided at Adrianople during his short and inglorious reign, and was succeeded by Muftapha II. who was the reigning emperor when this voyage was written.,C H A P. VIII. The author's voyage to Trabeznd. (gemelli having recovered his liberty at the G3 expence of six and forty piastres, which he Lid outfor a vest that he presented to the capitan Dbfsa, embarked on board of a fair, belonging to a rais called Agi Muftapha, which set sail on Mon dat the 12th, but the wind subsiding into a calm, she was towed by the shift as far as Umbria, at the distance of five miles from the village of Regni chkiy, where they had watered. Here the do&or,going
going ashore ascended an high hill, 'in order to et. joy a prospect of the Black Sea; but, being ques. toned by a shepherd, he retreated with great ex. petition to the fair, and a fair breeze springing up, they ran through the freight between pleasant vil sages and summer-houses, and passing the second castles, which are very weak both on the Asiatic and European sides, entered the Black Sea in the morning.,On Thursday the I5th they coasted along Nato lia, passed Ergeli, which is a good port, and next day sailing before a brisk gale, came up with an. other fair bound also for Trabezond, with an hun. died and fifty soldiers and servants belonging to the bassa, who had already sailed for that place with his family, on board of six Feluccas. The country along the Black Sea is mountainous abound. ing with chesnuts, hazle-nuts, and apples, with which it furnishes Constantinople and several neigh. pouring provinces.,On Saturday the wind proving contrary, they put in to Cape Sinopi, for fresh water; and weigh. ing betimes next morning, passed in sight of the city so called, situated on a point of land in the neighbourhood of an high mountain. The two following days were stormy, and so rainy, that the Turks, who would not give a zecchine for the use of a cabin, were walked from head to foot; in other respects they behaved with great civility to our traveller, who did not fail to return their politeness, that he might avail himself of their friendship and assistance in recovering his baggage, which had been carried coffin the other fair. Ne nevertheless, on Wednesday, when they came in sight of Trabezond, the knavish rais insisted upon his paying more for his passage than he had agreed for, and even produced two tartar false witnesses to,fuppOI;
support his demand, which however the doctor evaded by means of a small gratification this dispute being happily terminated, Gemelli went ashore after a voyage of nine hundred miles, and was cordially received at the little hospitium of the jesuit missionaries, who were cloathed in the Armenian fashion. The fathers had already retrieved the doacor's equipage, and gave him an account of the sufferings they had undergone, not only from the bad weather in their voyage, but, also, from their being arrested for the tribute at Una, until they were released by the cadi, who declared the subjects of the French king exempted from all such impositions the Black Sea, called the Euxine, is in circum terence five thousand miles, eleven hundred in length, and in breadth from two hundred to four hundred; at the extremity of this pond, by the foot of a mountain that looks towards the north, and in the latitude of forty-two degrees, stands the city of Trabezond, by the Turks called Tar rabeffan, about a mile in circuit, tho' the suburbs are large enough to contain twenty thousand inhabitants It is an archiepiscopal see, and metropolis of Cappadocia, whither the Greeks translated the seat of empire, when that of Constantinople was destroyed. Here the family of the Lascars reign ed about two hundred years, until it was taken and destroyed by Mahomet II. It has undergone so many calamities at different periods, both from. the Turks and Russians, that very little if any thing cf its antient splendour remains: it looks more like an inhabited wood than an imperial city, for the houses are intermixed with large gardens, fields, and plantations. It is defended by two inconsiderable citadels, one of which is commanded by a chiaus, and the other by the bassa or beglerbeg,. who governs the city. The suburbs are generally,inhabited.
inhabited by Greeks and Armenians. Provisions are neither cheap, good, nor in great plenty, and their market affords no fish at all, though the town is situated on the sea shore; their oil is good, but their wine very indifferent; the adjacent country being hilly, is barren, and the mountains are covered with snow.,Gemeili having payed the customer, who was very gentle, and visited the city of Trabezond, hired horses at a zecchine a piece for Alterum, which was at the distance of eleven days journey, and set out, accompanied by F. Vellot, superior of Alterum, F. Dalmateus, missionary to the province of Seramaki in Persia, F. Marten, going to reside at Ifpahan, and F. Dominick, designed for the million in the monastery of Naxivan.,On Tuesday the 27th, they departed from Tra. beyond with a good caravan, and having travelled four hours through a mountainous and dirty road, lodged at the caravan fera of Organ, where lying in the open air, they were disturbed all night with the noise of the neighbouring river, and the bark ing of wild dogs that range about the mountains in great numbers. Next day's journey was over dreadful mountains, among which, when they had proceeded about four and twenty miles in nine hours, they flayed at the caravan fera of Cafcan, which is extremely cold and incommodious. On Thursday, their way was fill more craggy, cold, and tr. ublefome, in so much, that the missionaries were ready to despair, and heartily repented of having undertaken such an uncomfortable journey. They passed over the top of Mount Zenana, which is amazingly high, and where the wind is romeo times so violent, as to Rifle the forlorn traveller. Then they descended a few miles towards the ca rivanfera, and next day, the road became more easy anr practicable, winding about the mountain,,which
which is covered with sir, beech, and hazle; hav ing passed over three bridges, they entered a sub. terranean passage through a mountain, at the other side of which is a khan; and after a progress of two and twenty miles in ten hours, lodged at the caravan fera of Guemes-Xane, that is, claver-house, on account of a mine of that metal, formerly worked in the neighbourhood, which produces also plenty of apples, nuts, and bad wine.,On Saturday, May the miss, they passed a gold mine which had been spoiled by an inundation of the river; then they saw another of silver, and were told by the natives, that the country thereabouts produced plenty of copper and lead, which is very cheap among the Turks, who are very nice and careful in tinning their utensils: they likewise passed by Cuvans, and having gone twenty miles in ten hours, lay at the house of their caterer or muleteer in the village of Balaxor, situated in a pleasant and fertile plain. The houses may be more properly termed caves dug out of the earth, the roof being level with the surface, and discontinued in the middle, so as to leave a large gap for the admission of light; and in this habitation, the men and beasts lodge together: yet their ovens are ingeniously contrived. They make a trench about three (pans in depth, plaistered with mud, leaving a small hole for the flame. Here a fire of wood being made, they fallen an iron across the mouth, over which is another moveable plate, so shaped, that five pots may find to boil upon it; and this :urns round for the conveniency of the cook. These pots being taken away from the top, the fire removed from the bottom, and the oven cleansed from ashes, they put in the unleavened dough, which is baked with great expedition. This con grievance frvycs also for a table, and a hove to warmth
the company as well as to keep the meat from grow. ing cold the village was chiefly inhabited by Armenia. ans, who flocked in clouds to the fables, where F. Villot, who had learned their language, instructed them in the mysteries by a game like that of the Goose, which he himself had invented. There visionaries, maintained by the French king, are very zealous in their labours, and bear the insults and persecution of the Turks with great patience and fortitude.,At night, our travellers were disconcerted by the arrival of a chiaus, sent to hasten the march of the Asian troops towards Belgrade. This mes. singer took two of their horses for his own use, so that some of them must have flayed behind and fallen a prey to robbers or janissaries, had not they contrived the expedient of laying two loads on one horse, by which they had a spare beast, upon which two of them rode by turns. This day's journey lay through a plain well cultivated country, and Gemelli shot a great number of pigeons and mal lards on the wing, to the astonishment of the Turks, who could not bring one to the ground: a circum fiance that served as a hint to F. Villot, who gave the musulman to understand that the doctor was one of the French king's huntsmen, sent to serve the soph of Persia in that employment. Having travelled twelve miles in six hours, they were obliged pay a quarter of a ducat as toll, for every horse, at the city of Beiburt, situated on a rock, and defended by a few pieces of cannon. It pro duces good woollen carpets at a moderate price, and the suburbs are pretty extensive. They proceeded six miles farther along the river, on the banks of which they encamped at a place called Mercier, where the chiaus had left their horseshoe
On Tuesday the 4th, they advanced but ten miles, to the village of Averac, seated on a mountain where they lay in the house or rather fiable of an Armenian, and here they saw the peasants sowing wheat, which here springs-up and ripens in a very short time, because the soil is extremely ser tile. Next day, they climbed prodigious high mountains covered with snow, on the last of which, they saw a quarry of white marble; thence they descended with great difficulty and danger to the village of Carver in a deep valley, where they took up their night's lodging in a stable as usual. Dur ing this day's journey, which amounted to four and twenty miles, the Turks belonging to the ca raven, expressed great apprehension of robbers, and intreated Gemelli to repair their fire-arms, which were in very bad order.,On Thursday the 6th, rather than ford the Eu pirates, which was at that time very high, our travellers parted from the caravan, and riding three leagues about, passed over a stone bridge, near the confluence of the river Grime and the Euphrates; on the left bank of which, they proceeded eight miles to the village of Teurifchuil, where with the content of the caterer, purchased with a present, the color concealed some small particulars in a straw bag, which in these countries is laid under the load instead of a panel. In all the villages thro' which they had passed, there were tax gatherers appointed to receive the head-money from all travellers; but, from this tax, the door and his company, as Franks, were exempted by an express order or ser man of the grand signior next morning they travelled over a beautiful plain, adorned with several villages, and surround ed by mountains covered with snow, and at the end of twelve mile , entered the suburbs of Erzerum, Where they payed about threepence halfpenny for,6 each
each horse; and the customer, at their desire, sent a person to search and feal the trunks; a ceremony which he performed with great civility, without any of that severity which Tavernier says he was treated with in this city. - Gemelli having hired a stately apartment in the caravan fera near the customhouse, was invited to supper by Mr. Prescott the English consul, who en pertained him with great hospitality, though he tor melted him with hard drinking; and gave him to understand he had by one day missed the opportune. city of a caravan to Tauris.,Erzerum, the metropolis of Armenia, which is said to have been the garden of Eden, is seated under high mountains, at the end of a beautiful plain, extending thirty miles in length and ten in breadth. It is surrounded by a double wall with several towers at convenient distances, supplied with small pieces of cannon; and without the walls is a ditch, so that it in some measure resembles Constantinople. At the east end is a castle and a fort commanded by the aga of the janissaries; and hard by, the Armenian cathedral, very much de cared. The city has three iron gates; the inhabitants are chiefly Armenians, who live in low hou ses, built of wood and mud; the streets are narrow and unpaved, the bazars poor and mean, yet it is so populous, that in the suburbs only there are two and twenty caravanferas for the caravans of Persia. Tho' the air is cold, and the fruit late, provision is very cheap and plentifully supplied from the adjacent plain. At the defiance of six hours journey from Erzerum, the river Euphrates springs from a mountain called Aphrat or Mongol's, though others are of opinion that its true source is in Georgia, but covered by the effect of successive earthquakes.T,rThe
The women of Erzerum wear cloth garments, boots, and a kind of black marque to hide their faces; and from their heads hangs a long piece of fluff reaching down to their knees.,On Saturday the 8th, monsieur Lacroniere ar rived with a caravan from Persia, and next day turned Mahometan, in despair of obtaining his par don for having killed two men in France. He pre tended that he had been sent by the king as a spy upon the Turks, and that all the Franks who sail up the Levant, were employed by the French king to instigate the Persians to recover Bagdat and Er serum. Though his behaviour evinced him a mad man, the Turks believed there false insinuations, and the Franks did not fare the better for this sup position.,On Thursday the birth, Gemelli refusing to pay the duty exacted from every person who carries a gun, was pursued by a Turk with a drawn knife in his hand, who, in all probability, would have mud-red him, had he not been hindered and ap pealed by Mr. Prescott: for, no Christians dare use a weapon against a mufihlmat in this country. Two days after this adventure, the doctor received a message from the muslin or bassa's lieutenant, commanding him to quit the city in three days; and the same order was sent to the jesuits, at the titillation of the Armenians, who, t.vo years be fore, had bribed the bala to expel the missionaries Brother manfred, who acted as physician in Erzerum, waited upon the muslin with the grand signior's ferdinand, for the re-establishment of the fa hers, to which, however, he payed no regard, but ordered us to be gone that same day. From this sentence, the brother appealed to the cadi, who permitted them to slay for the caravan. Mean while the muslin sent for Manfred, whom he imprisoned for two hours, and threatened with the,VQOL. VI. M bastinado;
bals:nado4 and enquired. very flr;Cily about Ge. mell, of Mr. Prefect, who assured him he was-not a. priest or papa, buta gentleman travelling to gratify his curiosity. After much sollicitation, this imperious officer agreed to let them all proceed to Persia, for a present of five and twenty aeschines but, his brother, who was lazar, or pro. teach of strangers, being resolved to Share in the plunder, insisted upon their returning to Trebizond unless they should think proper to gratify him with another present.; and our travellers, find. ing themselves exposed to such rapacious insolence and brutality on all hands, resolved to quit Erzerum privately, and take the road to Persia, even with .out the protection of a caravan; .chusing rather to run the risque of being pillaged by professed robbers, than to become a prey to those insatiable miscreants v ho rifle poor strangers under the shadow of :legal authority.,In these sentiments, Gemelli, with the fathers, :Dalmatia and Martin, and F. Dominick of Bo lorna, hired horses for four piastres apiece, and de. parted from Erzerum at midnight. Before day break, they were flopped by a customhouse officer, who lives in a tent six miles from the city; but when they shewed the discharge of the customer at Erzerum, he allowed them to pass, in confide ration of receiving a rup or quarter of a ducat. Having travelled twenty miles in eight hours, over a plain country, out of the common road of the .caravan, they lodged in the house of their caterer, at the village of Axa. where they were very well entertained, at a moderate price; for the place abounds with provisions next day being Wednesday the Icth, a janissary crouching the road, insisted upon their returning to a sort in older to pay a certain duty, which, however, they prevailed upon him to receive without
out their going back ; but when they had proceed ed twelve miles farther, the custom-houle officers of Volsci, seeing that they turned out of uncommon road, and did' not chute to cross at the bridge of Sio-ban-lupri, came up and commanded them to go as fat as-tt'e village, and' front this trouble' they were fain to redeem themselves with-a couple of piastres the soil is there's fruitful, that provisions are of very little value, especially as the natives live upon four milk, cakes, and water after a journey of eight and twenty miles, they reached the village of Koran, on the left-hand side of the river-Araxes, and found'the houses dug under ground, like those of Balaxor. Here the doc tor and his company rested all the next day, which was Ascension, at the desire of one of the cater gis, who was a native of the place. Their trunks were visited by the customer, who was satisfied with seeing the tafcare of Erzerum, but, the lazar wanted to extort a piastre by way of composition, because they had no pats; they would nor, however comply with-liss demand, which was not ap proved of by the customer. The women' of this village cover their faces with thin plates of silver, and wear two rows of buttons on each side of their velSs.,On Friday the 21rft, they travelled eight miles of mountainous way, and halted on' the bank of a- river of mineral waters, in which the catergis bath ed themselves: they afterwards met:with' three janissaries who demanded a poll:tax, and threatened" to carry them back; but they were-appeased with a piastre. Having passed over a field that'produce; great numbers of curious wind tulips, they lay in: the open field at Mefinghirr, a village situated at' tee fact of a Took, on which is a ruinous castle. liege alae native told Itch j denial fiery of a rob-,-,1 : bi '
very which had been committed a few days before on the mountain, that the fathers were afraid of proceeding without a convoy, and they hired a guard of four men, for little more than the value of a ducat, who seemed to be in a good understand. ing with the thieves; for, they conduced our travel hers over sleep mountains, and through pass woods of pine-tree, the habitation of banditti, two of whom met Gemelli, but durst not attack him, be cause they perceived he was upon his guard.,As for the escorte, their arms were in such bad order, that they could not possibly have used them, had they been willing; and next day early in the morning, they demanded their hire, and refused to proceed, though the company had above two miles of wood to pas i nay, one of them had well nigh run his spear through the body of F. Dalma'ius, because he ventured to expostulate with them upon their unreasonable exaction, which, however, our travellers were obliged to pay they had advanced but a few steps, after the de. pasture of these knavish conductors, when twelve men on horseback and afoot, appearing all of a sudden, the caterer told Gemelli they were thieves. One of their fellow-travellers, called Abram Cog gen, a native of Erzerum, no sooner saw this ap position, than he put spurs to his horse and fled with the utmost precipitation: the door leaving the frighted fathers on horseback, badly armed with pifo':s, to make a shew of resistance, alighted with his arms, and poised himself behind tome rocks in a posture of defence. The robbers being but very indifferently armed, and seeing our travellers pre pared to oppose them, thought proper to retreat farther into the mountain, and leave the passage free. Gemelli was extolled by the Turks for his gallantry, and the fathers complimented him with,the
the title of Caraon-Barchi, or general of their finally caravan. After this adventure, they halted for some time in a plain, where there was good assure for their horses, in the neighbourhood of a village of curds; and having travelled six and thirty miles in ten hours, they lay at Catania, a village inhabited by Armenians, who teized the jesuits for medicines to cure their tick people; and indeed they were sub jet to this inconvenience during the whole jour ney. On Sunday, the 23d, after a progress of twelve miles, they arrived at Bars, the frontier city of the Turkish dominions, and lodged in a ca ravanfera in the suburbs this town, seated in Turcomania, in.fortv-twn degrees forty minutes of latitude, stands in a mor, fruitful plain, and abounds with provisions at a very reasonable rate; but it has suffered so much from the Turks and Persians, who have possessed it by turns, that at present it is very ill peopled. It ap pears with a both aspect on the side of a rising-ground, of an oblong figure, and about two miles in compass, surrounded by two walls of earth, with small towers, two gates, and as many bridges on the side of the river, by which it is washed. There is also a fort built upon a rock inaccessible on one side, and provided with a good garrison, from which there is a detachment of forty. horse sent out every night to scour the country on the frontiers. The houses' of Bars are very mean, run up like huts with timber and mud, and yet, ever since it has been subject to the grand signior, this town has been always governed by a bafsa.,While Gemelli tfayed in this place, his Georgian caterer invited upon being payed his hire, and re used to proceed, until he was compelled by the Armenian customer, who payed himself for his good offices on this occasion; by exacting a whole 3 piastre
pialre .for every loaded horse, whereas-he had a right to demand but half that sum having fettled this affair they proceeded on their journey in the morning of Tuesday the 25th, just as the Turks fired-four guns to signify that :the faR .of-ramsden was ended; and travelled over beau. tissue plains, in which they met with several troops of curds, with their moveable houses drawn by oxen; a miserable people wh o wander about, dur ing the whole year, in quest .of pasture for their herds, and live upon the spontaneous fruits of the earth. Having rid thirty miles in tel hours, they lay in the village of Chalk, consisting of a few .mi. female-huts; and here they were .obliged .to wrangle all night with their caterer., who renewed his de and, and again refused to proceed until he should receive his full hire for the whole jourfwey.,They set out late on Wednesday .the 26th, and saw the .melancholy remains of federal places which had been defrayed in the wars; among these ws the city of Anrekggoe, founded by a kings Arme nia of that name, near the river Arpafuy, which rising. in the mountains of Meigulia, falls into the river of Bar. Good part of thlbfwals is ijJ stand Ing, and they observed the :ruins of federal mona, series, two oi which were alone inter. Pro, feeding farther, they def cried the moernain of Ar, marat, on which the ark is supposed to have relied; then they entered a valley where the water has formed several pyramids of stone : here too they passed the sort of Arpafuy, framed on a rock, and provided with a g.ocd garrison. This is the lais fortress of the Turks on this side, and without the gates is a village 'here a rup is payed for every horse that passes. In this valley likewise they went along a bridge, built over a river that parts the Ottoman and Persian-empires, and Gemelli had,ItO
no sooner reached :the other side, ,than he alighted and kissed the ground, in a rapture of joy, occasioned by his deliverance from Turkish insolence and imposition.,,C HAP. IX. ice author continues his journey to Erivan, Tauris,,NaTk-.ivan, a&c, H E. doctor and his companions having penes treated about ten miles into the Persian do minions, met with a multitude of curds encamped, to whom. they were obliged to pay half a pinafore for every horse, in lieu of custom for their trunks, which aren't opened in this country, where travellers pay according to their quality, and not for the quantity or nature of their effects. After a journey of twenty-eight miles, they lay the first night at Salem, the first village they saw in Persia, chiefly inhabited by Christian Armenians, who have here. two churches, though both are going to ruin'; and here a vertabretto or Armenian preacher pretended to cure a sick horse by charms and incarnation In thee neighbourhood of this village sa rock of salt; and the adjacent fields produce a cu pious flower like a plume of white feathers standing upright, from whence three purple flowers descend in a triangle, with a little black rose in the middle, and three of a brighter colour twining. about the other flowers next day, having rid twenty-four miles in nine hours, they arrived at the three churches called Eghiamiafen, the chief of which is dedicated to St. George, built in the form of a cross, with a cu pola in the middle, and under this they pretend to shew the stone upon which Christ appeared to St.,M 4 Gregory;
Gregory; the pavement is covered with good car. pets, and there are two altars besides the great one, to which there is an ascent by four steps, and the patriarch's chair is placed on the right-fide. On the outside are four small towers, one of which is provided with bells, which are forbid in Turky, and the standard of the cross is displayed. Close by this church is a monastery, in which the bishop and fathers reside, provided with an excellent fountain, good gardens, and raised on piazzas that serves 2 caravan fera for pilgrims. The other two churches and monasteries are built in the same taste, though smaller, and endowed with good fields and vine yards the plain of Erivan produces great plenty of grain and fruit, being fertilised by several rivulets, as well as canals from the river Araxes, which runs across .the country: they level and break the clods with a fowler drawn by-two men; and here it is harvest vx'hen they are lowing in Turky.,On Friday the 28th, our travellers proceeded on their journey in sight of mount Ararat, which is .about eight miles from the monastery in which they la - and aster a pro reds of ten miles through good road, entered the suburbs of Erivan, where Ge nell hired an apartment in a caravanrfra. The present city cf Erivan was built on the ruins cf another town that bore the same name, in forty two degrees and fifteen minutes of latitude; part of it is situated on a rock, w shed by the river Zan gli, and the rest sands on the plain; the whole circumference does not exceed a mile, and its forti fictions consist of a deep ditch and a double wall, with bastions of earth, on which are mounted a few pieces cf small cannon. It has three iron gates, but the garrison is inconsiderable: the inhabitants are a few traders, the bazar is indifferent, and the palace of the chum cr governor, fronting tire rivers great
a great unwieldy pile of earth. Here, however, is a mint where the silver and brass money is coined; as for gold, there is no coin of that metal in Persia, except a few pieces scattered among the people at the king's coronation. The-metal is fused in a trench by a fire of coal and wood, blown with two pair of bellows, then cast into long ships, whiche they afterwards beat out into plates; of these they cut out round pieces of a certain weight, which being smoothed, are stamped by mere force with the impression. On the other side of the river, over which is a bridge of strong arches, Gemelli found an agreeable shade of thick trees, and a num ber of small apartments for the diversion of the clan, to whom the government of this city is worth two hundred thousand crowns a year the suburbs, inhabited by the traders and Arme nan artificers, are twenty times as large as the city, and interspersed with farms and gardens: there is an excellent bazaar and mexican along the city-wall; but the number of ruined houses, destroyed in con sequence of the continual wars that rage between the Turks and Persians, exhibit a deplorable prof pes: the whole extends about ten miles in circum terence, enclosed by a rampart of earth and this space produces delicious wine, excellent fruit, and many pleasant groves of willow and poplar the country from Vocat to Tauris is chiefly in habited by Christians, who earn their livelihood by raising ilk-worms, and carrying on other trades, which turn to good account from the continual pas lege of caravans; and these are very profitable to the soph, because the duties being small, a great number of merchants retort hither with their com r:odiitiis.,Gemelii having seen every thing remarkable in ;rival, and visited the church and monastery of lisa-art, which is cut out of the rock, as well as,MI 5 viewed
viewed a large lake in the neighbourhood, and five other Armenian monasteries, hi hired horses at a very easy rate, and with F. Dominic set out for Naaccivan, in hope of overtaking a company of Georgians and others, who had the day before de. parted for that place,,In the evening it began to lighten and rain upon Moput Ararat, which is the case every day about the same lor; and the river Gavure-cimy being fw'oln with the rain, they lay in the village on this ide, among a number of curds, in a very fall in, cmugOjiio u.s caravan fera. Next day, being Sun, day the 6th, they passed the Fiver, travelled through a plain country, part of which is cultivated and improved by small canals drawn from the river; and after a progress of thirty miles, lay at the vii lag of Salarach, where they were obliged to keep a iriia wa ch over their baggage, for fear of the country people, who are reputed very dextrous robbers next day they forded another river, and were .popped by the matters or guards of the roads, who demanded an extraordinary toll, but Gemelli refused their demand with his pistol in his hand, and they were fain to take an abash a head from him and his companion. That same day they crossed another river called Arpafu, so rapid that it carried away an Armenian woman and her son the length of a musket-shot before they reached the oppo. fie chere; but this accident is so common, that it gives those people no disturbance. After hav ing meade a progress of thirty miles in eleven ho:ars, they lodged by the caravan fera of Keraba, a large square, a capacious and beautiful structure, supplied with a spring of excellent water that gushes out of a stone fountain, said to be cut by Shem me ion of Noah,,On
On Tuesday the i8thb having rode fifteen misers, the arrived at Nakcivan, from whence F. Domi nie set out for the monastery of Abarehetr, Where he intended to reside, while Gemelli was 1:ft alone, exposed to the imposition of the matters, Which is here very flagrant.,Nakcivan is said by rome authors to be the tribft ancient city of the world, and the buryihg;place of Noah, who is thought to have lived here aftr- the deluge; a conjecture founded upbti the meaning of the words Nak-civan, which in the Persian lai gage signify the slaying of the art Be this as it may, certain it is the city is very antient, and was formerly decorated with fine fixtures add noble mosques, which were utterly destroyed by the bar rarity of Amurarh when he cook the place ; for the Turks consider those temples as profane which were built by the followers of Hali.,The new city consists of one long narrow sheet, with a good bazar, and four large caravanferas, for the convenience of the numerous caravans that paSs this way. The suburbs are of small extent, with horses that resemble caves ; and near the city stand an obelisk of brick, seventy spans high, said to have been erected by Tamerlane when he entered Persia. This town and the adjacent country is governed by a cham. Our traveller, dreading the vexation and brutality of the matters, who very often bastinado rangers who refute to comply with their exorbitant demands, hired a couple of horses for ten abash and departed from Nakcivan about three hours after it was dark, in order to wait for a Persian en voy going to lfpahan with a present to the soph, who promised to protect the doctor on the road having crossed a river on a good bridge, about two miles from the city, adjoined this ambassador they travelled seven and twenty miles over a slut country, and refined on Wednesday the 9th atom 6 (:d
Old Zulfa, on the banks of the Araxes, from which Sciaa Alas 1. transplanted all the inhabitants to new Zulfa, in the province of Guilan, that they might not be left exposed to the continual excursions of the Turks. At present Old Zulfa is a heap of ruins, destitute of inhabitants, except a few Armenians, who live here on account of the fertility of the neighbouring soil the Araxes, at this place, being confined e-. tween two mountains, is very deep and rapid, and the fiery-boat ill-contrived, and worse managed by the boatmen, who receive half an abash for every horse that passes, and a person appointed by the rattan of Nak-civan, grants a receipt for the duty. That night they lay at the caravan fera of Gradus, which is very small and incommodious, about four teen miles from the river; and next day they rode through a narrow valley infested with robbers, and over a barren wall by the caravan fera of Malachi, which is a large square brick building, with four towers at the four angles; from thence proceed ing twenty rriles farther, they reached the village o' .infanta, where Noah's wife is said to lie inter red; and where they found a noble caravan fera well supplied with delicious paterson Friday the I With they entered on a mountain vous road, and met with the matters armed with clu's, who exact an abash for every parcel of mer ch2ndize or baggage: they passed the excellent ca r:'arifcra rs Jarrghet, and having travelled twenty monies farther, partly mountainous, and partly a handy plain, they arrived at the city of Sofiana, in termed with groves and gardens, where having rowed two hours, they set out again; and, after a cp.-c:rcs cf eighteen miles, entered the city of Tau its, which was taken and burned by Amurath in thee jyc.r I638T,Tauris
Tauris or Ecbatana, situated in the province of Adirbeitzan, in forty degrees of latitude, was for merely the metropolis of the Median empire; but nothing of its antient splendor now remains, be cause it has often felt all the calamities of war from both Turks and Persians: at present it is no other than a large plain, environed on three sides with mountains, in compass extending to about thirty Italian miles, exhibiting a mixture of gardens, fields, and mud-houses; though the bazars and caravans ras are kept in good order, as the conveniency of its Situation draws hither a vail number of merchants from Muscovy, Tartary, Arabia, Georgia, Mingles lia, India, Turky, and Persia, who deal in all sorts of commodities, and particularly in silk brought from the province of Guilan and other places: yet notwithstanding this great trade, and its prodigious extent, the number of its inhabitants does not ex need two hundred and fifty thousand the tower of Sian Hassan, which some people suppose to be that of Babel, is built of brick, two hundred and twenty common paces in circuit; the diameter amounts to forty paces, and the thickness of the wall to twelve: there is a winding fair-cafe of one hundred and ten steps, that goes up to a room on the top, the outside walls of which are inscribed with characters and hieroglyphics: the tower is ruinous on two sides, and at the bottom is a place with iron gates, where the Persians say the founder lies buried the almeida is a great square, the resort of merchants alit artifice rs, where horses are sold very cheap; and there is a great vent of shagreen skins, made of the hides of horses, mules, and aloes, of which the better sort of people wear boots the mosque of Hassan Bahia, erected by the followers of Ossian, is a magnificent structure, de coated with fine marble, and curious embellish-scents;
merits; but the pavement is covered with poor masts, because it is little regarded by the Persian, who consider it. as a polluted temple. In the neighbourhood is another elegant structure going o ruin, called the Place of waters, where the dead gre washed: and hard by stands a decayed church belonging to the Armenians-to which St. Helen is seed to have sent a piece of the real cross. At the end of the mexican is a great palace built by the Turks while they were masters of Tauris; and in a gallery belonging to this edifice there is an agree able concert of drums and trumpets every evening gemelli had an opportunity of seeing the public entry of the cham or governor, attended by about two thousand horse. This person's predecessor, ful tan Bigian-Beg, was a great friend to the Christians, by whom his death was much regretted. His fa ther Russian chain commanded the Persian army, which drove out the Turks from the country's Tauris; but he himself was disgraced in confer. quench of the ill offices of a vizier, who represent ed him to the king as a drunkard and a madman. Nevertheless, his nephew Rutian cham, having ad danced himself to the office of chief judge, ac quire the favour of the soph to such a degree, that he bade him one day ask a boon, which was at first modestly declined by the Russian, until the king repeating his desire. the other begged his fa mile might be restored to the same honour it enjoyed in the life of his grandfather. Then he mentioned his uncle Bigian-Beg, who had retired to Tauris, where he drank the best wine, and enjoyed the pressures of a private fiction; " What," said the king, '" titan madman, your urncie, sultan Beg!" "' He is not mad, replied Russian, but ni.frepre- " seated by his enemies; and if your majesty will " emit him to appear in your preface, you,W 'ill
will be sensible of the injury he has sustained." The king accordingly sert an express for Bigian- Beg, who toed offa bumper to his majesty's health, and from that moment renounced the use of wine. When he arrived at Ifpahan, he went to the Al4- caps or bouse of refuge, to which all criminals re tire, as well as those who come to Ifpahan by the king's order, before they know the purport of their fate. Tie soph received him with great courtesy, calling him by the name of baba or grandfather, caused hin to drink wine out of his own cup, and like tobacco out of his own gold pipe, and would have conferred spoil him the poR of generalissimo, which his father had enjoyed ; but he excused him self on account of his age, and begged that the of nie might be bestowed upon his nephew, under whom he was contented with the government of Tauris, in which he died.,On-Sunday the 13th, Gemelli passing through the atreidan, saw a man tied to a high pos,. and gently bastinado with a wand: he likewise ob served several Persian monks, who wear a kind of turban with a border, the middle part being sharp, and covered with red cloth. After dinner he rode about the city, crossed several bridges over the ri ver Schienkaic, which runs through Tauris, afford ing excellent water i saw several corn-fields, orch arts, and tombs of different workmanship, inscribed with Arabic characters; and in his return to the monastery of the capuchins., where he lodged, he met a giarci, or chief of the four serjeants, who proclaim the price of bread, and the sentences pro flounced by the governor and his lieutenant. This officer was a horseback, wore a turban with a sea ther on the forehead, and on the sides two upright horns of tin, between which arose a kind of cylinder covered with red and bluefilk.,5 Next
Next day he visited the royal palace, called Sci. enevi, which is a mean structure, having two in. different gardens that produce almond and apricot. trees, and a variety of roses: from thence he pro. needed to the mosque of Ofmanla, which is the-most magnificent future in Tauris, decorated 'with sculpture, gilding, painting after the moorish fashion, and a profusion of fine 'marble, among which may be reckoned two large transparent stones that appear of a fine red colour when the fun (hines upon them, and are said to be petrifaction of a certain water, about a day's journey from Tauris: of the same substance they make cups, and other curiosities, which are sent in presents to Ifpahan, On his return from this excursion, he saw two lea. then temples, one of which was square built, with two gates and thirty windows, and covered with a cupola which had gone to ruin: the other flood on the right-hand going into the city, and was of the same figure, though much larger. Between the great gate and :tmeidan are two pillars slanting, which seem to have supported a third temple, of the same form and workmanship: and not far from this place appear the ruins of a large mosque, pro vide with a fine large garden, at one end of which-re several large fabricks, part of an 'old pagan temple called iibubecan-taghi; and here it must 'be observed, that there is in every mosque a round piece of white marble, called mortofale, which no Christian is allowed to tread upon, without incur ring the bastinado there is a mint at Tauris as well as at Erivan, o;i tl;e neighbourhood affords mines of good rock fast. Every evening at sun-set, all persons are warned to shut up their shops, by sound of drums and trumpets, when the guards begin to patrole about the bazars, and the mullahs call-the peoples
to prayers from the tops of houses, the whole mak ing a very disagreeable concert. About an hour after night-fall, an untameable drum gives notice to the inhabitants to keep within doors; and after that signal no person must go into the street with out a light on pain of imprisonment. The same drum is beaten two hours before day, when the guards retire, that every man may look to his own cffeds.,On Wednesday the i6th, Gemelli, accompanied by the superior of the monastery, went to see a magnificent bazar, built by Mirza-Sadoc, together with a caravan fera, a bath, a coffee-house, a pro vicious trench fifty feet deep, sixty in length, and forty in breadth, which is a repository for ice, and a college in which the Persian youth are instructed:: then they visited the mosque, caravan fera, coffee house, and ice-house built by Mirza-Ibrahim, bro ther to the said Sadoc, which are extremely elegant and commodious. Thence they proceeded to the palace of Mirza-Tair, son of Mirza-Ibrahim, the outward structure of which was of mud, and-made a very mean appearance, but going in, they saw. a fine garden, with water-works, summer-houses, a harm, or apartment for the women, and a' stately divan, adorned with marble, and tolerably well painted. On the other side of the garden was the winter-house, with a finally divan curiously painted and gilt; and other apartments furnished with mir hours, ingeniously placed for the purposes of re flexion. The floors were covered with good Per shan carpets, the rooms decorated with fountains of alabaster; the doors, windows, and balconies well proportioned, and the whole contrived with great Symmetry by Mirza Taper, who also built a good caravan fera in the mexican, as well as a mint, and baffled another fine garden that produced all sorts of European fruits; in the middle of this are two,pleaaure.
pleasure-houses,. and in the 'neighbourhood tie pa laces built :by-his other and uncle in avery mal nificentit.fe. The doctor, in'his return , went in to a large cupola near the mint,. called Efyifra, which contains the most valuable commoditiesol0 the city: and near-this is the ft-ee.tdf the gold ari :fi'ver-fnitbs, with i{tately'brick arches, 'but covered like-all he trees and beztas of-the easr.,Next day, he saw a number of superstitious wo. men, passing, and rpaffing:under the bodies of'nia. senators that hung upon the gallows, in hope of .being crucified by the efuvia-of the dead bodies: with the same view they straddle over the que-tua that conveys the water in which the 'en have lee bathing. No razors are used in this place, but pincers, with which both men and woman pull-up.the hair by the-roots.,At the distance-of three miles from Tauris 'i ,gold mine, but so poor, that they have left. off working, because it would-not quit cost; yet four days journey from 'hence is a rich copper mine-which brings a great deal of. money into-theft-hi's coffers.,Gernelli, during his residences at Tauris, made several excursions on horseback, 'in company of a French gentleman, and among other particulars, saw on a mountain a bridge, about fifty paces in length, railed upon stately arches, seemingly of no use to the public, but faid.to have 'been built by a vain mullah, ambitious of having-his name men toned to Sciaa Alas I. who made a progress to Tauris. Not far from hence are the ruins of a mosque, fort. and temple, and monastery still en tire, stands on the brink of the precipice.,Our traveller being informed that a jus baci, a Georgian renegado, intended to set out immediate ly for Ifpahan, resolved to take that opportunities
of travelling uncdr his ipotedinn, .together with one Malachi, an American .Christian, .who lent Gemelli eighty .crowns .upon!his,parole, :though he had never seen :his. :face :before this transaction Thus.accompanied, the, on Friday;the.ithih,joined the jus-bafci,, who-had only twelve followers, in differently armed.; and travelling all night, they found themfelves.at break ofday, after a :progress twenty 'miles, at .the caravan fera ;of.Siencii, a goodly :fltuifre, built by Scia:Sophihking of Per fa, and capable of containing an hundred travel hers with-their horses. Here 'the rattars.exad an abash from every horse; but 'from this impositions Gemelli was screened by the authority of :theseus. barce. Shaving colet a prodigious 'large mountain, and :passed a lake full ,of 'wild geese, .they, of two roads that lead to Ifpahan, chofeilhat which runs. through Kom and Kafcian; and, tiding ,ten milqs- through a well cultivated-country, hay at the village of Asia-Aga, where, though :there is a good;-c. ravanfera, :the doctor and Malachi took up their lodgings at a Turks house. The night, at this. season of the year, is w!iery cold in Persia, 'though the ,day is as hot as in Italy.,On Sunday the .soh, they ,set forward in the .col of the evening, and ,wandering in the dark, were with difficulty conduced by a guide to the-earavanLCya of.Guiacb, tho' not before the doctors had well nigh lost his lor-se, and received. aral. by which one of his.piftols was broken. After an hour's rest, they proceeded on their journey, and p.sild several caravanferas, which in Persia are built within four leagues of one another;. and a;.out noon they arrived at rhe village of Carats china, having travelled over plains and mountains, well cultivated, and abounding with provisions tho' the Persians, in general, refuse to eat with Chrifians, the jus-bafci being a Georgian renegado,.
do, invited Gemelli to dine with him, and gave him a minute detail of his life. He said he was Georgian prince, who had just recovered his liber. ty from a two years imprisonment at Tauris, where he had been loaded with chains, in consequence of the misrepresentation of his enemies; but that the king being at length undeceived, he was rcltorcd to favour; and going to Ifpahan to wait upon his maieftv, and see his own brother, who was surveyor of the mint. This story was, in all probability, more plausible than true; inasmuch as the door was informed by other Persians, that the jus-bafci had been imprisoned for his extortion among some poor Armenians, where he had the chief command, Be that as it will, he treated Gemelli and Mala. chi with great civility, helping them to handfuls of boiled rice at dinner, and conversed freely upon the politics of the countryseat this village, the inhabitants flocked about Ge. mell, on the supposition that he was an ambaffa. dor from some foreign power; and this they th: more easily believed, as every person who can pro. cure a letter of recommendation to the soph, front any petty prince in Europe, is acknowledged as an ambassador, and the expence of his jour. ney is defrayed by the king; for which reason, some merchants have provided themselves with such Letters, in order to save charges, and elude the cuf. tom-house duties on the road ,Next e' ending they proceeded in the dark, with a lanthorn and guide, although it rained hard and in five hours found themselves at the village of Mia ra, situated among dirty marshes and abandoned by all the inhabitants, who could not afford to pay the taxes four miles from hence they forded the four branches of the great river Mira, near'the ruins of a bridge, consisting of thirty arches then they,afccnlded
ascended the high mountain of Kaplantu, from the top of which there is a sleep descent on the other side, to a river, which, as well as the former, traverses the province of Ghilan, and falls into the: Caspian Sea. Here is a fine new bridge, and the remains of an antient castle appear on the top of a rock in the neighbourhood, said to have been built by a woman who-ruled over the cities and villages near these mountains, and preserved her independency by living in that inaccessible situation. The villages about the mountain belong-to the mosques of Ardevil and.Scia Soph, to which last the Per sans go in pilgrimage. The yearly revenue of this mosque amounts to eighty thousand crowns, which are distributed among the poor, and the priests be longing to the foundation having travelled thirty-three miles through a barren country, that produces nothing but liquorice thieves, and a kind of partridges of a very indifferent taste and flavour, they halted at the ca ravanfera of Sin-malaga, seated on the top of a mountain, and embellished with seven towers, that give it the appearance of a castle. Here the doctor and his friend were protected from the imposition of the matters, who came and made their demand, but were reprimanded, and dismissed by the jus bafci.,On Wednesday the 23d, they were much incommoded with thunder, lightning, and rain, and lay. at the caravan fera of Niche, which, like all the other caravanferas on this road, was very commo pious and comfortable. These structures are raised as monuments of piety, and in Persia are built with table and uniformity. Around the court are apart ments for the travellers, and if they do not chuse to put their horses into their large tables that stand behind, they may tie them before their respective rooms, to stones placed for that purpose. Oversee the
the mangers irr:ttie-ffblegsatre iohes,- in which this muleteers or grounds take-their repose their next night's journey was'through' an un. even country to Zangan; a large dirty'town, the houses of whicWr.ale-wretchedly built of-nrud: yt, here are: excellent gardens producing a- variety of fruits and flowers,. and: wood: for fuel which is a great rarity in a country where they: hae little else to burn but the dung of their cattle: yet; norwich. standing this scarcity of wood, people of all degrees commonly carry clubs in their hands. Here our travellers lodged in a- coffeehouse, enjoying the fresh air,. by the noise of a large spring. that rose in the middle of the room; and after supper, being joined by ten Turks and two soldiers, they proceed ed through a plain dry country, and at break of day arrived at Sultania.,This city, where the kings of Persia: formerly kept their-court, now lies almost altogether in ruins. It is situated in a valley, about three leagues in breadth : though the circuit is very great, as including abundance'of fields, gardens, and ruined houses. T-hose that remain are wretchedly contrived; the Bazar is one long freer, the caravan fera very in different, and the air rendered unwholsome by the neighbouring maries;, and it is governed by a cham, to whom the adjacent country is also subjet.,In this place Gemelli was again screened by the authority of his fellow-traveller, from an vexation of nineteen crowns, demanded by the matters: he passed for a Frank going to serve the king at Ifpa- han, and his friend Malachi feigned himself a Georgian That same night they set out again, after having put in order the pistols of the jus-bafci's servants, and adjusted a falconet, which one ofthe soldiers carried instead of a niufiet; and having travelled eight and twenty miles anon mountains, reached IHahar on the.27th.,This
This authenticity stands in labyrinth of curious gardens, enclosed with high med-walls, and pop lar-trees, and producing-excellent fruit, and the finest rises in:the.world-; so that nothing could be: more pleasant than to, reside here in thisjfeafon-of' the year, amidst the cool and fragrant solitudes of Hagar, which, tho' ruined, is. os:agreat compare. They mounted again at night, and near the village .of Barren-encompassed: withstood gardens, met a: great man, accompanied by a ciapar.or messenger, attended by fifty men on horseback.: there likewise they saw a caravan of a thousand horses going from Ardevil to Taurus; holding on their way they halt ,ed before noon at the village of X'eare, where the water is brackish and disagreeable, tho' the soil pro ducts good wine-and fruit. Monday's sage they ended at the village of Senava, in a fruitful plain, where there are good houses and gardens, with plenty of excellent nuts. Next day, they faw-fome' wild cattle, called grecian or marcellus, with long' hair like that of a buck; at night they feed in flocks on the plains, and in the morning return to the mountains. They do not leap, but run like dogs, and. are accounted excellent eating. Having' travelled twelve miles, they halted .at the village of Karavanch, where they enjoyed the cool breeze, under .a grove of tall maple-trees, planted on the margin of a brook; and. indeed no village in Per fia is without a rivulet, which fertilizes the country, and produces a verdure which is delightful to the view. Here they dined in certain houses, built for. the entertainment of travellers. In the afternoon they were visited by the country matters, who ad nailed (emeili 'shut kktin breeches, which are worn by none but the wrestlers in Persia, and therefore Malachi made:them believe the door was of that profession. Taking horse again. in the evening, they rode two and thirty miles to the caravanfera.,of
of Kofchkeri2, and next day took up their long. ing at the village of Dong, where they found a ca ravanfera of singular structure: for, whereas all the others are provided with sleeping apartments, this is no other than a continued row of open arches, un. der which the travellers lie for the conveniency of being cool in the hottest weather travelling is very cheap through all the domi - nions of Persia. Horses are either hired or bought at a small price, and provisions are sold for a mere trifle, because the Persians themselves are so temperate A native will live a whole day on a little cheese or four milk, in which they dip their thin cakes, of an insipid taste and greyish colour; and at noon or night, perhaps, they will add a little rice boiled in fair water. The door, who could not put up with this slender fare, provided store of eggs, lamb, wine and brandy, in the villages thro' which he pasted ; but the natives of Dong, though they have excellent grapes, do not know how to ma nage their wine, for they put the must in subterranean cisterns plaistered with lime thus supplied, Gemelli frequently treated the jus-bafci, who acted very much like a courtier; for whether he ate or drank, or whatsoever he did, it was all for the sake of the doctor: nay, when our traveller intended to purchase a horse, this of nicer made a merit of forbearing to bid against him. On Wednesday they arrived at the city of Sava, situ acted in a fruitful plain, and exhibiting an agreeable view, though moi' of the houses are built of mud. The walls, which are four miles in compass, appear ruinous in several places, and this too is the case with the sort, that stands upon the top of a hill: ev-en the mosques are gone to decay; and the chief support of this city is a traffick in small furs, with which the Persians and all the orientals line their garments. Ge,Gmei
Gemelli and his friend had promised to dine with the jus-bafci, in a village belonging to him, at a finally distance from Sava; but fearing he would detain them until he should collet money from the inhabitants, they proceeded on their journey, while he was at bath, and left an apology with his servants this village was conferred upon him by the king, over and above a salary of fifty romans, amounting to nine hundred and fifty crowns. Thus the Georgians are removed from their country, in which they might be apt to excite disturbances; but not before they have undergone the operation of circumcision, which numbers endure through mo times of interest or compulsion. This was the case of our jus-bafci and his servants, who were musulman from the teeth outwards only, and therefore neglected the Turkish washings and prayers, and treated the prophet with great contempt: nay, the jus-bafci himself swore to our travellers, that if the soph would not reimburse him in two hundred thousand crowns, which he had loti by his imprisonment he would go to Rome and embrace the catholic religion, and from thence repair into Hun gary, where he would serve the emperor against the Turks. On the second day after the departure from Sava, they saw the mountain of Giavar- Bad, from which the Persians suppose no man ever returned; and next morning having crossed a small river on a bridge of ten arches, entered the city of Kom, situated in thirty-five degrees of la latitude, and extending ten miles in circumference: the walls and houses have been wafted down by the rain; the squares are but mean, the bazar. india, ferment; yet the mosques are stately though ruinous, the caravanferas commodious, the adjacent country fruitful, and the town affords good Turkey-leather,. Vo.1 VI, N of
of all colours, for the palaces, or shoes of the Persians.,Here is a mosque which the Persians esteem equal with that of Ardevil, because it contains the tombs of Scio-soph and Sci-Abbas II. of,Sidi Fa tina, daughter Iman Hocen, who was the laugh: ter of Hali, and of Fatima Zuhra the daughter of Mahomet. The great gate opens to a long square of shops, over which is an inscription in gold let. terms, containing the praises of Sci-Abbas II. This leads into an oblong court, planted with lime-trees, and producing a great quantity of roses and other fragrant flowers. On the right-hand as we enter this court are small apartments, in which the poor eat their daily allowance of flesh, rice, and bread, given as the alms of the mosque, according to the intention of the founder. Here likewise is an asylum to which debtors retire, and are maintained, to the great detriment of commerce. The first court opens into the second, of a larger extent, planted also with trees, and affording lodgings for the in fervor servants of the mosque. From this area a gate opens into a third court, around which are the dwellings of the mullahs and priests, and in the middle is a fountain of spring-water. There is a fourth court, to which we ascend by twelve steps made of brick: hard by a magnificent front with three gates, one of which leads to the tombs, the other to the hall in which alms are given to the poor, and that in the middle, to the mosque, the threshold of which is covered with plates of fil ver. When the mullahs, who were at prayers, sav Genr!elii approach, one of them-beckoned to him to enter, and very civilly led him around the whole rnoque, which was an oaagon, and in the middle flo-d the tomb of Sidi-Fatima, grand-daughter to Mahomet, of a square form, covered with a rich pail o5 :elk nr.d goi,, surrounded with lattices filter
silver bars, and illuminated with a number of lamps made of gold and silver.' The internal workman lip of this mosque is very curious, and the cupola gilt and painted in the Arabic manner. On the right-hand coming in, is a large room covered with carpets, in which alms are distributed: and on the same side, ascending three steps, and pas sing through two doors, you enter a stately hall, from which there is a passage to the tomb of Scia- Soph-formed like an altar, four spans above the ground, and covered with cloth of gold. The room is arched, and on the sides are four doors, one of which answers to the tomb of Sidi-Fatima, an other leads to a cloister, and a fourth to the tomb of Sci-Abbas II. covered with red silk, and en ironed with great bookÂ·, which are read by the Mullahs. The walls are ornamented with gold and azure, and the tiles of various colours beautifully arranged.,On the 2d day of July, about unfitting, our travellers departed from Kom, and'afrer a progress of twelve miles, refined in the large village of Kaf- fam-Abad. Next day being Saturday, they travelled fifteen miles, through a sandy barren country, to the caravan fera of Abfcirim, or Fresh Water, be cause here is a cistern of that refreshing element, and there is not a drop of water for five leagues around, so that dogs and other animals often die of thirst. They left that place in the evening, and passing on to Naffir-Abad, a city quite destroyed, and shewing only the ruins of some good buildings, they rested there in the open air till day-break on Sunday morning, when setting forwards they ar rived at Caspian two hours before night. This city is governed by a cham, and extends about three miles in length, with tolerable build kings. The bazars are light and well-contrived, and the caravanferas are well-built, with large courtesan in
in the middle of which sometimes are cisterns, and around these the merchants in summer place their beds to lie cool. The principal trade of the city consists in wrought silks, on which account an in. finite number of merchants resort to it from India and other parts of Asia.,The king's house and gardent, in the neigh. boyhood of this city, were likewise ,visited by them. A little brook runs through one of the gar. dens, and on its banks are planted pines, and a variety of other trees, in a regular order, by which it appears how much the Persians exceed the Turks in ingenuity. The king's house has an indifferent front of tiles, of several colours, according to the fashion of the country, and good lodgings within. Before it flood a troop of horse, affording a curs. vous fight, upon account of the great variety of the coverings of their heads, some having turbans, tome caps, others feathers of several colours: these soldiers forced our travellers to make obeisance up. on their knees to the palace, as to a royal and fa cried place that same Sunday evening they proceeded on their journey, and were greatly incommoded by a hot wind, that obliged them now and then to apply wet handkerchiefs to their skin. After a journey of four hours, they arrived at the caravan fera of Giacir-Abad, built among solitary mountains; and six miles farther, they came to the pools made by Sci-Abbas II. king of Persia, to supply Caspian with water in the summer. They are formed by a wall -:; hundred paces in length, thirty in thick. less, a!.d fifty in height, extending between two mo:.-'ains, to keep in the rain-water in winter, wei -n is distributed by seven sluices.,On Monday, riding six miles before day-break, they rested at the village of Cone, in the noun. pains, not blessed with one foot of fruitful soil, but,the
the vallies between make full amends, with the abundance and goodness of all kinds of fruits. Leaving the mountains behind them, they passed through a plain, yet barren country, so that for thirty miles there is no village to be seen, though in the neighbourhood of Ifpahan. On Tuesday they took lodgings early, in the caravan fera of Agakamola, nine miles from Cone; but being eager to see If pagan, they set out betimes next day, and after five hours riding, passed by the ruined village of Minor; continuing their journey till break of day, they rested at Gash, a caravan fera built by the king, their horses being greatly tired by the dry barren ground. From this place to Ifpahan the country is fruitful, producing all sorts of grain and fruit, and full of villages and houses of pleasure. In the afternoon, setting out again they soon came within sight of the city, appearing at a distance like a great wood; and after riding four hours they entered it, and took up their lodgings with the Portuguese fatherhood St. Augustine, who received them with great civility, giving them the best apartments they had. these fathers lived well enough, ha ing the best meat the place afforded, dressed by Portuguese cooks, and be ing served by twelve men, some Arabs, some Ar menials, and some blackstone C HAP.
CHAP. X. d dftr'p:ion cf Jfpahan, end th mon tnmarkabl,things in it. 7 SPA H A N, or, in the Persian tongue, Spahon,,is feared in the province of Herat, formerly a part of the antient kingdom of the Parthian. Some suppose it to be built on the ruins of the antient Iecatompolis, but it plainly appears to have pro needed from the union of two small villages, which even to this day continue their factions, and have disputes that sometimes end in blows. Whisht the kings of Persia kept their court at Cabin and Sultana Ifpahan was no better than a village; but Sci-Abbas' removed his seat thither, invited by the fruitfulness of the soil, watered by many canals drawn from the river Sanderu.,The compass of its mud-walls is in all about twelve miles, having small towers, and a shallow il.tch fill of water, near which there are rows of trees. affording an agreeable shade. There is no walking round the city upon account of the garden -. ass, and other structures that are contiguous to its wvalis; but if we include Zulfa, and the other Lbiu!bs, with the fields and gardens within ther, tre compass will be little less than thirty miles. It has ten gates, and its streets are narrow, crooked, and uneven; and if the air were not very whole forme, the filth and dirt lying in them would breed many distempers. As they are never paved, the but in summer, and the dirt in winter is quite in tolerable; for, though there are persons appointed to water them in summer three times a day, yet that is only done in the mexican, and streets inhabited by rich merchants and in winter, the rain stagnating
ing among. the filth thrown from the houses, to gather with the blood of slaughter-houses, and other dead beasts thrown in public places, renders: the city altogether disagreeable. The houses are aloft all built with mud-walls, intermixt with a row of unburnt bricks at every four spans. They generally have a portico in the middle, with a. fountain or cistern of water; on three sides there are windows at the top, and underneath are final piazzas, where they may enjoy the corsair. In the' inner part of the house there is generally a great' ro m, with quilts, and pillows stuft with cotton to sicep on, and the floor covered with carpets suit able to the quality of the owner. The palaces' of great men seldom exceed two doors, and on. each side of the portico have two arched rooms,, adorned with Arabian painting of several colours. The roof is flat, after the Neapolitan fashion, and in summer they lie upon it because of the great heat. It is composed of earth mixt with lime and' bruised straw, over which are laid burnt bricks; and in winter they are careful not to let the snow lie upon it for fear of pressing it down. The fur nature of the rooms is of no value, excepting in a few, where they receive their visits. ' fpahan is so populous, both on account of the wholesomeness of the air, and the conveniency of trade, that they call it half the world, and not without reason, as well for the diversity of tongues spoke there, as for the prodigious wealth of its bazars, and slips of all sorts of merchandise. Airing its curiosities is the tower of Mcnur-Kale, bil!t by Sci-Abbas, the Great, and covered above,'lih the bones of wild beauty killed by him in one dey's 'hunting; they say, the workman telling him there wanted but one head to complete the-work, he caused his to be set in the place. It is about eighty spans high, and not above forty in compassion 4 Gemelli
Gemelli went and saw the Dutch company's houle, where he found the agent shooting turtle-doves in a delightful garden, adorned with fountains and cu. pious rows of trees, who, after entertaining him with excellent wine, mewed him a dozen of the finest horses and mares, as well for mettle, as for the curious spots of several colours; likewise ten hawks fit for all sorts of birds, the diversion of hawking being one of the greatest delights of the Persians. Afterwards he rode about the best streets and bazars, seeing very wealthy shops of all sorts of commodities. Among these streets, the principal is Sciarbach, continuing a mile in length from the palace towards the gardens of Zulfa, It is a musket-shot in breadth, and the water runs through the middle of it, in a handsome canal of stone, which at four different places widens and forms four great ponds; on the sides of this canal, are two rows of cigar-trees, and under them are pay. ed ways four feet wide, and as high above the rest of the way, for people to walk in the lade free from the houses. Hither the Persians come in throngs to divert themselves, smoaking or eating fruit several shops neatly built along it. On the other side of the river Sanderu, the street is continued for two miles, full of pleasure houses, and beautiful flruiures, and leading to the king's great gar den called Czar gerib, three miles in length and one in breadth. This garden, what for extent, and what for the beauty of its trees and variety of fruit and flowers, may compare with the best in Italy. At its four angles are four fine turrets, as well for ornament as to serve for dove-cotes. In the middle is a canal of water, running pleasantly down the declivities of the ground, and reflecting the beautiful green of the cigar-trees growing along the side of it. On the rising ground, are two little painted houses, for the women of the aram,to
to take their pleasure, who have likewise a little boat to pass their time on the pond there. Not far from this garden, is the park, where are kept above twenty tygers, lions, and other wild beasts; and alto three pars, which are small creatures about the bigness of a cat, with which they use to hunt deer and other game, setting these creatures after them; when the hawks having fastened on their heads, hinder their sight with their wings the mexican or square, is worth the observation of strangers, being one of the best structures of fpahan, and built by Sci-Abbas after the model of another now in ruins, where the princes of the Persian race lived; it is a quarter of a mile in length from north to south, and about half that breadth from east to west. It may compare with, and perhaps exceed, the best squares in Europe in the uniformity and beauty of the arches, shops, and windows of the second floor; with all its other parts. The shops below serve for trade, and the rooms above to live in; being all arched. Near the me;dan, Stands the royal palace, having two principal gates, one leading into a longwalk, where are small rooms for the reception of criminals who take sanctuary here: at the end of this walk, is a gate called Hali, on the threshold of which, is a round stone held in great veneration by the Persians. Over it, is a great square balcony, with the roof nobly gilded and painted, and sup ported by twenty wooden pillars adorned after the false manner. This place is open on three sides, and on the fourth, is the royal throne, where the king uses to come to see all the public rejoicing in the great square; the most diverting of which is that of the arrow, the king causing a gold cup to be hung to a tree, which is given as a reward to him who, riding full speed, when he is pall the tree, turns round and shoots it down with an ar-,N 5 row.
how. The other gate, called the gate justice, is guarded by several companies of foot, and troops of horse. Before these two gates, are one hundred and ten pieces of cannon brought from Ormuz, when it was taken from the Portuguese; but they are all falconets, except some middling pieces. Beyond this useless front of cannon, is a portico, which leads to the back door of the pa lace, through which all provisions are brought in. Opposite to this gate is a building inclosed, where there are several sorts of artificers, and particularly Thanks who work for the king. On the south-fide of the palace, is the king's bosch, having a beau tissue frontispiece covered with small tiles of several colours, with two towers on the sides; ending at the top like turbans. The first gate leads into a court or cloister of an irregular figure. The fe conc gate, which is covered with plates of silver, is the way into the bosch, which is all over painted within after the Arabian manner, and gilded, so that the arches vie in beauty with the pavement, which is covered with the richest carpet sone half of the square is employed as a great market, the rest towards the palace is quite clear and without shops, because the king goes thither Sometimes to see bulls and other wild beasts baited, yet the mountebanks and merry Andrews, some. times take possession of this place, and divert the multitude with their nonsense and buffoonery. From the palace to the south-angle, all the arches serve for cofFee-houses, which are very much frequented the devises repair to it morning and evening to declaim till they foam at the mouth, for lome small reward they afterwards receive from the hearers the Armenians have their shops near the Mei mean, not far from the royal caravan fera, founded by the mother of Sci-Abbas the second. These.,caravanferas
caravanferas of royal foundation, are greatly pre V female to others; though people are not received; gratis into them, yet their goods are in greater fe ' purity; for, if anything happens to be loft,'hle- keeper of them is accountable for it, as also for all merchandise sold on credit and entered in his book; for which the seller gives him two per cent. and he' is bound for the whole price.,On the north-fide of Mexican, are two pillars seven spans high, and the same distance from one another, to play at mall a horseback, which is. done by striking the ball at full gallop to drive it; between the two pillars. On Monday the seth, Gemelli went again to, the Mexican, to see a scatter or footman run for a, tryal, in order to be admitted to serve the king He had on a pair of short open breeches, as our footmen wear, with three horse-beans hanging down, from his waist; his thighs and legs. were. naked,. and anointed with a sort of grease to prevent weariness as formerly those that exercised in the gymnasia, anointed themselves with oil. He ran' from the gate of Ala Caps, to a stone on the mountain, three miles from the city. He was to run seven times without eating, but only drinking, every time taking up a little flag placed by the goal, and then, if found fit to be king's scatter, he was, admitted.,\Vcdnefday the 21 f, it-was known abroad tha.z the king was fallen sick, or rather grown wo:fc.oi. his continued apoplectic' fits, occasioned by too, much wine. It being his daily price, as soon as. he awaked, tofall to drinking, and when he could. not hold the glass, his cup-bearers gave him three, bumpers; then being somewhat recovered, he took three more with his own hand, till being: overcome with the fumes of wine, he lay down to Itr?, a.d thus spent his. days between lleeping-,Nq 6 ant
and a shadow of waking; for whilst he sate in Council, he could not forbear drinking, and very often sleep overcoming him, the assembly broke up without doing any thing. Being now apprehensive of his life, he ordered three thousand fe. even hundred romans to be distributed among the poor, and orders to be sent to all the governors of provinces, to release all the prisoners in the king dom. About the middle of next week his death was made public, about noon, the eunuchs and kilar agafi appearing with their garments rent, which is the mourning used among the Persians. The body was removed the same day to a garden, and washed in a fountain by the caul bufci, or the chief of the washers of the dead, who never ex excises his office, but when the king dies, for which he has fifty romans and the cloaths, with all that is found upon the king. The body being washed, it was laid in a room stretched out on a carpet, to be carried thence to Kom, to the tombs of his ancestors. The physician that had attended him in his sickness, was apprehended, to' be put to death, or banished, according to the custom of the Persian court.,Scia Solemn died at the age of fifty-three, after a reign of thirty years. He was born of a Georgian woman, and having led his life before he came to the crown, either among women or black eunuchs, he could learn nothing but cruelty or lasciviousness. For several years he gave way to his bloody disposition putting to death many great men of his court, upon very sight occasions; but afterwards adducing himself altogether to drunkenness, and the pleasures of the aram, he left himself nothing but the bare name of king, committing the whole charge of the government to Mirza Tabor, prime vizier, who, though above eighty years of age, ad. lifted himself wholly to avarice, minding only,whn
who bid most, and sometimes would stoop so low as to take a crown preparations being made for the coronation of the new king, on Friday the roth, at seven of the clock, by order of the astrologers, the cloth was cut for the coronation robes, and next day, he was proclaimed; the ambassadors being confined to their houses, and all persons forbid to depart the city, till-the solemnity was over.,On Sunday the ifs of August, the obsequies of the late king were performed: an hundred camels and mules led the way, loaded with sweetmeats, and other provisions for the use of those that ac companied the funeral. The body followed in a large litter, covered with cloth of gold, and car cried by two camels. On the sides went two ser wants, burning the most precious sweets in two fire-pans of gold, and multitudes of mullahs say ing their prayers in a very noisy manner. 'Next followed another litter, to serve in care the first should break, and then all the great men of the court on foot, with their garments rent. As they went thro' the city, great lamentations were heard, and a dismal noise of the subjects, the company still encreasing, till they amounted to ten thousand; After having flopped in a garden about a mile from the city, they set out about half an hour after night, to carry it to Kom, the peasants coming out to meet them on the way, and cutting their flesh in a barbarous manner in token of grierson Tuesday was performed the sacrifice of the camel; it was led by the collar by two executioners and the terga after them, through the city, to a great field called Mufalla, a burying-place of the 1 turks. Here the camel's legs being tyed, he was stretched out on the ground, and the terga putting on a foci's cap, struck him with a spear, then an executioner cut off his head with an ax,,to
to present it to the king, and the body is left to the multitude, who almost kill one another to get a bit; which if they can procure, they eat with great devotion. This ceremony is performed every year by the Persians, in memory of the fa orifice Abraham would have offered, which they sav was of Ismael, and that God sent him a camel and not a ram instead of his son nigh Ifpahan, is a village of the Goris, reck one by some, part of its suburbs; it is one large street, about a mile long, inhabited by the Goris, who live upon tillage. Though ignorant, they be lieve in one only God, the Creator of 'all things. They do not adore, but only honour the fire, upon account of Abraham's escaping unhurt, when he vas cast into it, by order ossa king of the Chaldee according to their interpretation of there words, " I am the Lord thy God who brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees." They boast that they are descended from Abraham, and the ancient kings of Persia. When they marry, the bride and bride groom appear before the priest, who, before wit nests, receives the content of both parties; then washing their foreheads and muttering certain words, they may not be divorced afterwards, with out a lawful cause. When any of them dies, the dead body is carried to a place walled in near the mountain, and there they tie it upright to a pillar and going to prayers for the soul of the de ceased, they stand till the crows come to eat the body; if they begin with the right eye, they bury te dead, and return joyful, but if they fall upon the left eye, they go away disconsolate, leaving the bcdv unburied. Their habit does not differ Â£ron tht: of the other Persian peasants, that's the women is very modest, they wearing a petticoat after the Italian manner, and under it-breeches and Â£shos after the Persian fashion. About their,heads
heads they wrap a piece of fluff made of silk and linen, and in their notes hangs a gold or silver ring, somewhat smaller than that the Arabs use.,Zulfa, or Sulla, is likewise accounted one of the suburbs of Ifpahan, the river Sanderu running be twixt them, and the gardens of the one contiguous to the large gardens of the other. It is three miles in length, and nine in compass, and inhabited by Armenians, who fettled here by command of Sci-Abbas the great, when the war was hottest be tween the Persians and the Turks. The houses are handsome within, though of mud without, the streets neater and straighter than those of Ifpahan, with high rows of high cigar-trees on the sides, and a trench of water in the middle, full of good crabs. The Armenians here, are governed in civil matters by a kalenfer or judge of their own na tion, who rates what they are to pay to the exchequer but in criminal cases,, the king caufesjuflice to be rigorously administred by immediate com and. They are. the richest subjects of the na tion, by reason of the great trade they have through out the world, especially in silk. In spiritual mat terms, they are governed by an archbishop, who is independent of the patriarch, and has four suffragan bishops, besides their own; the Armenians speak the Persian and Turkish languages; and in their writing, they use two sorts of characters, one for religious worship, and one for vulgar use. The Catholicks here are very few, and the children in forced in that profession still fewer; for as soon as the priests hears of any, he excommunicates the parents. The Armenian women are very beautiful, without any help from art. They cover their heads with a fine white cloth tied under the chin, and their hair is made into one tress, which hangs on their back in a velvet bag; the richer sort wear gold and jewels like the rest of the world. The,archbishop's
archbishop's life is very austere, for some of ther eat fish and flesh but four or five times a year, ant at all other times only roots and herbs, and even laymen, as well as churchmen, have six months and three days fasting in a year, during which they eat nothing but bread and raw herbs; and sometimes before their great feasts, which are christmas, the ascension, the annunciation of the blessed Virgin, and St. George, they will abstain from eating for two or three days, especially be fore the feast of the last, whom they worship with great devotion. The Armenians marry their daughters very young, and almost in their infancy, for fear the king Should take them into the aram; the mothers generally make the contract, and then acquaint the fathers with it. When it is concluded, the bridegroom's mother goes with two aged women and a pries, to the bride's mother's, and gives the ring from her son; soon after he comes and is blessed by the priest, together with the girl, When the nuptials are to be celebrated, the hus band's father sends a meal, three days before, to the mother-in-law's house; the next day the bridegroom sends the bride a garment, and after wards goes to receive one himself from the mo ther-inlaw, who likewise delivers up the bride when an Armenian dies, the mordifciri, or washer of the dead, after having stripped the corps, washes it with holy water, wl-:ch done, it is again dried in a new v hide lanerk-shire, and sowed up in a back ; then ail the kindred attending, it is carried to the church and !eft before the altar all night, with candles burling round it. Next morning, after mass, it it carried before the arch bishop s or bishop's door, to have the Lord's prayer rest-red over it; from thence it is conduct to the grave, where the bishop throwing a handful of earth upon it, thrice pronounces these words," From
', From earth thou caries, and to earth thou shalt i, return; remain there till the coming of our ," Lord." After which, the grave is filled up, and the relations depart. To conclude, the Armenians firmly adhere to their ancient customs and the Christian faith, notwithstanding all the persecutions raised against them by the Mahometanss, very few of them having embraced that religion, although the proselyte thereby gains all his relation's goods, and even the father's, who must afterwards live upon the (on's courtesy friday the 6th being declared by the astrologers as a fortunate day for crowning the king, an order was issued out for all the flops in the bazars to be illuminated, and to continue so all night, upon forfeiture of twelve romans. But this illumination was nothing extraordinary, there being only a few tallow-candles burning in the shops. The auspicious hour being come, which yet was un lucky, by reason of the rain, about half an hour after midnight, there was heard an ungrateful sound of drums and trumpets playing, to Sciaa Often, then seated on the throne; and in this mean manner was the coronation of so great a king solemnised. It it indeed improper to call it a coronation because the Mahometanss kings use no crown, and this ceremony is only receiving the homage of the nobility.,On Saturday the 7th the new king prohibited the use of wine, upon pain of death, beginning by his own house, where he broke all the vessels his father had defiled with it. Though it is probable this severity did not last long, drunkenness being a vice entailed upon the throne, and inherited by all the princes. Next day the son of the great mo gul sent the king a present of the value of twenty thousand romans, consisting of an elephant, a fil her cistern, and a great gold basket set with jewels,after
after the Persian fashion. On Monday the yth, the king appeared in public clad in red having first generously distributed two thousand rich garments among the nobility and courtiers, according to their several qualities. The day following, two wretches were taken drinking of wine, and though they pleaded ignorance of the edict, they were dreadfully beaten in the mexican, till the nails of their toes dropt off; yet it was called a merciful punishment, in regard of the fellows ignorance and ilmpiicitv.,On Wednesday the filth, the king made the ringers, that is, gave public audience, and an entertainment: the arnmb.ladors enter at the gate of a]a-capi, With the usual displeasing harmony; after having ascended four ileps, you enter theh.11 of audience, which is somewhat long, with a printed ant gilded roof, supported by forty pillars; its length is divided into three parts, each a ceo higher than the other, for the nobility to h-and according to their rank and quality. On the third ascent, stands the royal throne, raised but two !fans above the floor, and eight foot square. The kin, was seated on a brocade cushion, and leaning his back against another. On his right :ntd left flood ten eunuchs, holding his pipe, firmiter and several other things. When the Pope's and Polish ambassadors came in, the master of the ceremonies made them bow their foreheads to the ground, and the same when they were before the throne; then the king made them a sign tobit down with their retinue. About an hour after the audience succeeded the entertainment, the table being covered after the manner of the country, and every body sitting cross-leg'd, had a piece of silk laid before them with a skin over it. First came several sorts of fruit, and sweetmeats, in gold, differ. Then three great basons of pilau, red,,lyhiteC
white, and yellow, covered with pullets and other fief, which was-distributed in gold-plates. The kin, had the same diet on a table covered with cloth of gold. All persons ate their meat in hate, after the manner of the levant, and some drank a great deal of lemonade and rose-water, with sugar candy.,On Thursday the 7th, it was rumoured abroad tht the-king was learning to ride in the garden, he having been slut up in the aram from his in fiincy, according to the custom of the Persian c'.urt, who never inairut the successor to the throne, but conceal him from the knowledge of the greatest men in the kingdom. His learning to ride is necessary to fit him for public appearances, h ici are always on 'horseback; and for his use, and that of the ladies in the aram, the eunuchs, and other courtiers, are kept one thousand five hundred horses, some of the noblest of which, eat out of gold troughs, and have their feet tied to nails or pins of the same metal. Not far from Zulfa is the fine garden of Sara saba, having a communication with the gardens of BIpahan, by a bridge of fourteen stone arches over the river Sanderu, at the end of which is a gal very, whose roof is supported by twenty wooden pillars gilt, where the king, when he is taking his picture, receives ambassadors. From this gallery there is a descent into the garden, which is adorn ed with several little woods of fruit-trees, large wvaks, canals, and fountains, and an aram close by the river, with small rooms. On the 21ft, Gemelli went along with the Po lfh ambassador to his audience of leave: they vwaied an hour for the master of the ceremonies, and five horses usually sent by the king, then setting forwards with a train of sixty persons, nineteen of ',hcm were on foot, armed with muskets, and therein
rest on horseback they alighted at the gate of Ala Caps, where flood four tygers, several lions, four elephants, two great and two small ones, co vexed with cloth of gold, all in a row. One of the elephants had a great silver-feat on his back, according to the custom of the Persians. After wards they were conducted into an apartment, where several other ambassadors were sitting, wait ing till the time of the audience. In the inner part, sat the ambassador of the king of the Mans, an Arab; on the opposite side was the Armenian, the pope's ambassador, and the proving. coal cf the Dominicans. In another arch on the right, fate, after a barbarous manner, the ambassador of the king of the Ufbecks, with his rei. nue. After they had continued in this place above an hour, hemmed in with servants and footmen, the audience at length began; the ambassadors the king of the Mans walking fires into a garden about fifty paces from the arch where the audience was: nigh the arch is a curious fountain about twenty spans in length, with a little raised place in the middle for the king and great ones to hand cool; at the end of this fountain adjoining to the arch, were two large silver vessels. In an alley near the hall, two hundred topics or musketeers were drawn up in a rank, and close by the wall flood twenty horses, having their furniture adorned with great diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and other stones of great value. The stirrups were of massive gold, and the worst saddles covered with clothes gold, with nails of the same metal. The aud, once chamber was large, having the walls painted and gilt, and adorned with looking-glasses; in the rridft was a fountain, and at the end a great niche in which was placed the royal throne; on that fid next the garden, several musicians sat on carpets playing upon various instruments, whilst athelstan
sang after a barbarous manner. The company ascended from the first part of the room to the fe conc, where the ambassador left them, being led by the arms up to the king, who sat upon a brocade cushion, having two others at his back. When the ambassador came within six paces of the king, he set his hands on the ground, bowing his forehead almost to the pavement. When he food up again, the atmath duet came before him, and taking a letter out of a gold-baron at the king's feet, which was full of flowers, he delivered it to the ambassador who with great reverence laid it on his head. The letter was covered with cloth of gold, as is used among the eastern nations, two spans in length, and as much in breadth. Having received the let ter and compliment of leave by the mouth of the atmath duet, he made such another obeisance as he had done before, and was again conducted to the garden; from whence, with his retinue, he went home, having the letter placed in his turbans for the observation of the people.,On Monday the 23d, the new moon of August appearing, the Persians kept their lamentable festival for the death of Hassan and Hosea, the sons of Hali, who were killed by Omar near Bagdat. During the ten days it harts, every square is set out with lights, and in the middle a banner is raised, near which a mullah gets into a high pulpit to preach, and is attended by all the people of the square, especially the women, who give him mo ney, sweetmeats, and rose-water, to cool him, when heated with preaching. Till this festival is over, no Turk can appear in public, without great danger of his life. The populace made a figure of straw, wound about with cords, and setting it on an ass, carried it all about the town, beating it, and sometimes calling it Omar, and sometimes Abumurgian his companion At last, in a hellish,rages
rage, they killed the poor ass; and4n the effigy oi straw, 'burnt both the murderers of the two holy youths. On the last day ofthefeflival, the king made a angeles or entertainment over the gate of Ala Caps, at which all the nobility and ambafla. dors were present. The horses and wild beats were ranged before the palace as they had been be fore, and all the mexican was cleared from [hops, to make room for above one thousand horses, be longing to the great men who were come to the feast. Several processions from all parts of the town entered the mexican betimes; some carried pikes of a vast length, with banners fastened to them, and led horses loaded with arms, and turbans of their supposed martyrs, singing doleful verses, and dancing in a ridiculous manner to the sound of two basons beaten at the same time. Some carried the images cf those very martyrs on biers, dancing about them. Others brought with them two children tied to a camel, as if they were dead, with two led horses carrying the arms. All these processions passed before the gallery, where the king v.was, the blind people beating themselves severely to represent the murder the more lively; and making nothing of even death itself, being fully persuaded that whosoever dies in that con fusion, goes directly to heaven. The owners of the shops offered cold water to all those that were thirsty, in memory of the thirst Hassan and Hosts endured after their father Hali was wounded.,HAP.
CHAP. XI. Of the relzg;aoi, civil government, manners, hab'ft,learning, and; funerals of the Defiant. N the Persian dominions, there are Mahomet I tans, Goris, or Pagans, Jews, and Christians, several teas; but the prevailing religion is the Mahometan, though differing from the Turks, con morning the true successors of Mahomet; the Per sans affirming that Abubeker, Omar, and Ossian, usurped the inheritance due to Hali, Mahomet's nephew and son-in-law. The nabab is head of their religion, which dignity is worth fourteen thousand romans a year. In public, he takes place next to the atmath duet or prime minister, and disposes as he pleases of the legacies left to mofchs, which always turn to his profit. The Persian nabab is the same with the Turkish mufti, only he may pass to civil employments, which the other cannot. Under him are two judges called the fciek or axond, and the cash, who decide all religious matters, grant divorces, and are present at contracts and public ads, appointing their deputies in all the cities of the kingdom. The ex pounders of the alcoran are called mullahs, and are compleat hypocrites; for they always walk gravely, talk seriously, and when they meet any body, teem to pray, laying a cloth on the ground, and upon that a stone or clod of earth brought from Mecca, which they kits now and then, and always carry little silver pipes tied to their arms, with some sentence of the alcoran in them, or such like trifle. The Persians believe that after they are buried, two angels come and raise them to life 2S far as the waist, to examine them concerning the
the good and evil they have done, and use ther well or ill accordingly, till the lord of time comes who will kill edgar or antichrist, and turn hi followers to hell; after this immediately will fol low the resurrection of the flesh, and the porte of heaven will open the door to them, where thei prophet will give to drink out of a large fountain and that then they shall have a great number ol beautiful women, created purposely fer them, and delicious meats of several tastes, but that the en. moment of the women shall not proceed beyond embraces and kisses, and the meat shall digest in odoriferous sweets, without turning to excrements, as it does in this world the Persians marry their children very young, They are allowed by their law, four lawful wives at once, among which, one is chief; besides they may have as many concubines as they will and can maintain, taken from the quarter of the whores, by a contract made for a certain time before a judge. When the time is expired, they are dismissed, and muff continue chaste forty days, to see whether they are with child. The men may likewise use their slaves, and the children born of them are counted legitimate, but inherit with this difference, that the females have but half the portion of the males. The Persians are of a very amorousdif. position, and sometimes to shew their love, they brand their arms with red hot irons, to express that no torment is so great as that they endure in their minds. Before the wife is carried home, she has her cloaths sent her, and the husband appoints her portion. On the wedding night, the bride' groom goes to fetch her, attended by his relations and friends on horseback, with lighted flambeaux. She meets him half way, with the like retinue women, carrying her apparel; with music of drums and trumpets, When arrived at the bridge-,4 groom's
groom's house, a mullah reads the matrimonial con tract, after which, till bed time, the women divert themselves in one apartment, and the men in another If in process of time they happen to disagree the woman demands her dower, and having agreed to part, they go before the cash, and in his pretence, the matrimonial knot is dissolved. This may be done three times, after which, the woman cannot be received again, unless she has first been taken by another and put away.,In Persia, justice is done with brevity and severity The clams or governors have the administration of it in the provinces; and they appoint a terga or criminal judge in every city, who has under him an aetas to execute his orders; besides, the king appoints two officers who are to look that the subjects be not oppressed by the cham. Mur deters are punished speedily and with rigour, for they are delivered up to the parties aggrieved, who may put them to death with their own hands, as ter what manner they please. It is allowed to compound for money, but 'tis so dishonourable to forgive the wrong, that this is seldom or never praised. High-way robbers meet with no mer cy, and are punished several ways. Sometimes they hang them to a camel's saddle, with their head down, and then rip open their belly ; sometimes they bury them up to the neck, and leaving them with a pipe in their mouth, let them die in that miserable manner. Some are bailed with burning bacon, and their flesh cut into small pieces. These - robberies are seldom committed, as the roads are guarded by the matters, and the cham of the pro vince is obliged to pay the value of what was sole, after four months and ten days allowed him to find the robber. Thefts in the cities are pu rifled after the same manner as high-way robberies, and particular care is also taken to punish all info VOL. VI. 0 benches
benches committed in taverns, flews, and other pub hic places. As for what concerns provisions, then is a superintendent of them with four assistants who every firstly of the week sets the prices of al things by weight; and if any man be taken selling but a farthing dearer, the common punishment i! to put on him a cap with a small bell hanging tc it, and lead him about the city as if he were whipt, after which, he pays a fine, and is bafliradoed on the feet the provinces are governed by clams and vi tiers, the first have the command of the soldiery, besides the civil and criminal government, but the power of the latter is more limited; so that in some cases, they cannot give sentence of death, but must send the criminal to the next cham. The provinces governed by charles, are in all eighty one, and those governed by viziers, are thirty-ses even. The manners of the Persians differ widely from those of the Turks, for they are civilized, meek, peaceable, modest, grateful, generous, ene mies to fraud, and lovers of strangers; they bear no hatred like the Turks to the Christian name, but are courteous and affable to them, allowing every man to be cloathed as he pleases, and not for, biding to wear green, as in Turky. Among other courteous expressions used by them, they com monty say; " I sacrifice or devote myself to your " will. I wish the apples of my eyes might ob. " lige. you to tread on them. I am your slave, it " is your part to command me." On great ses. rivals they visit, wishing one another many of there happy days; and great men receive these compliments in their houses from their inferiors the Persians wink at injuries, to wait an oppor. unity of being revenged. They are great flat teres, ambitious of honour, and easy to be per faded i o that the catholick missionaries could,wilh
with case prevail with them to embrace their faith, were the free exercise of the mission allowed in Persia among the natives. They seldom play, be cause Mahomet hath forbid it, and rarely divert themselves with walking like the Europeans; but sit after their own manner to enjoy the purling of some stream, or the pleasure of a garden. The men never dance, but there are women whose trade it is, that are hired on festivals. The great. eft diversion of the youth, is to make a hollow past board case, lapped over with some sort of skin, which they toss up into the air with a large rope, when the wind blows; and it sounds like the pipe of an organ. They never pray till they have washed in running water; or if they cannot come at it, in the cistern, every man has it for this purpose in his house. When they have had to do with their women, they go to wash at the bath, which they may do till two hours after fun-rising, the rest of the day being for the women. They wear no long beards, but lawyers now and then clip theirs with scholars; the courtiers and soldiers shave, leaving long whiskers, and under the lower lip, a patch like a swallow's tail, to render their countenance more honourable or dreadful. Old men dye it black, which continues several days, and the young men pull out the hair of their cheeks to have their skin look fine. Superstitious observations are much regarded by all, and therefore no man neglects buying the almanac, which sets down what time is lucky, for every action; and also whether the year will be scarce or plentiful. They circumcise their sons very young, and make barren women swallow that part that is cut off, as an excellent remedy against barrenness. The Persians have no surnames, but say such a one, the son of such a one; they give learned peo. ple the honourable title of mirza, and soldiers that,0 2 of
of beck. The descendants of Mahomet are called Saber, that is, lords among us. Sports, and par. ticu!arly hawking, is much used among them; so that people of wealth keep great numbers of these birds, as also dogs and horse. Besides tobacco, which no person whatsoever forbears, they use opium, and from it borrow that drunkenness and stupidity they cannot have from vine, which they dare not use; they take it even to the quantity of half a dram, which an European could not take at fifteen times, without danger. They use much coffee, and at meals never drink till they have done eating; the vessels they use for these purposes, are of copper or earthen-ware, their law forbidding silver, and the king only using gold. They in ge. neral are temperate, the poor people being satisfied at noon with azeri, which is bread and curds sold in skins, and with fruit according to the season; at night they eat pilau. The gentry and richer sort eat roast meat and pickleS. Their bread is flatten ed like a cake, and baked in a hot copper vessel, but it would be excellent, were it baked after the European mann eras for the Persian habit, the vests reach down below the knee, and have (trait sleeves down to the wrist; they do not use buttons, but knot them with ribbands, under the left arm and under the right hip. Persons of quality wear it of silk or cloth of gold, and have shirts of coloured silk or cotton, with close breeches reaching down to their ankles, Their turbans is made of very fine silk of several colours, embroidered with gold and silver at the edges; these turbans are very heavy, and rome of them hate so much gold about them, that they cost seven or eight hundred crowns of our money. Over their vest in winter, they wear a loose doublet without sleeves, lined wil fables or little lamb' skins and over all, a silk sail, at which hangs their,sword,
ford, which they call cungiar. Their (hoes are made like our slippers, with a sharp iron four sin goes high under the heJ. The womens dress is much the same as that of the mens; if they be people of quality, they wear on their head a little cap adorned with precious stones, from which a veil hangs down behind, together with their tresses; their breeches and stockings are like those of the mens the Persians being lovers of learning, they have their colleges or metres, where the sciences are taught: here the students have only their lodging, and the master expounds to them those books they read. They are particularly addled to poetry, for which they have :,: Fxceiient genius. They have choice Arabic books, time of them translated into the Persian tongue, but all in manuscript; printing not being allowed. They write well as ter several manners, some valuing themselves upon writing eleven different sorts of hands. As for languages, the gentry use four, viz. the Persian, which they call sweet, the Turkish or haughty, the Arabian or elegant, and the corrupt dialect of the peasants, which they call Valaat. The Per shan language is of itself barren in words, and therefore borrows many from the Arabic, which is used by the learned in all the sciences. Their day is divided into four equal parts, beginning from midnight. In religious affairs, they make use of lunar months, but the astrologers country solar months two several ways, ours and the Egyptian. T heir year begins on the day of the vernal equi nox, when all the great men go to wist the king a happy new year, and present him with some curiosity The nobility on that day, cloath all their servants and slaves, borrowing money if they have it not, that they may not make an ill omen for all the year that is to follow; which conceit is so,0 3 deeply
deeply rooted, that there is no wretch but ended. yours that day to be clad all new from head to foot when any Persian is very sick, they light several fires on the top of the houses, to give the neigh. hours notice that they may pray for his health. When he is dead, they make dreadful cries and howling, especially the women, who now and then report the dead man's good onions and qualities, and then give a shriek by fits, that is hideous to hear. The mullahs carry the corps to the grave, crying all the way Allah, allah, and lay it down with the head towards Mecca, placing two stones en each side of the head that it may not sir ; as ter which, they fill up the grave, and go back to the house of the deceased to an entertainment. Soldiers, and the officers of justice, or those be. longing to the revenues, cannot leave any pious legacies, because the king is their universal heir; but he allows the dead man's son some small portion of the elate, and raises him to the same de. green if he is capable of it.,C H A P. XII. Of the climate, bosnia, and produce, &c. of Per.,Jsa. S this kingdom is large, being bounded on A the north by the Caspian sea, on the south by the ocean, on the east by the Mogul's country, and on the west by the Turkish dominions from which it is parted by the writers Tigris and Eu pirates, its air and climate differ according to the several provinces. Towards the north, it is ex ceflively cold but very healthy, and even Ifpahan, tho' situated in thirty-two degrees of latitude, is,lmore
more subject to cold than heat, because of the abundance of snow instead of rain. The heat there is tolerable even in the dog-days; but in winter, the snow falls in such quantities, that it sometimes is three spans deep within a league of the city, by which the Persians judge of the fruit fulness of the year. In the southern provinces, and particularly along the coast of the Persian gulph, the heat is excessive and hurtful, for it breeds in the legs of Europeans, a kind of slender worms fifty or sixty spans long, which are drawn out by little and little in several days, rolled on a stick.,In Persia, there are flowers of all sorts, and the untilled fields are full of most beautiful tulips; but above all, it abounds in roses, from which they distil water and send it into India and other countries The fruit is much better than ours in Eu rope, and there are all sorts of it; the melons have a molt exquisite taste, and exceed those of Papabito, in the kingdom of Naples; some Persians will eat thirty pounds of them in a day. The figs are good, and the almonds, nuts, and peaches, excellent, and in great abundance. They have grapes of many sorts, but three kinds of them are very delicious, and make excellent wine, which serves not only Persia, where there is a great deal used; but likewise supplies Hindostan, China, and other countries: they keep it in earthen vessels glazed within, or else anointed with grease of sleeps tails: the cellars are not deep, and have com monty a cistern of water in'the middle, carpets on the ground to sit down, and long rows of niches in the wall, with several vessels of different sorts of wine.,In this country, are some mines of copper, lead, iron, and steel, and in the mountain Phiruflu, they dig Turkish stones of great value. They,0 4 have
have likewise an excellent fishery of pearls at the island Baharen.,For serviceable beasts, the Persians have excel. lent horses, good mules, large camels, and two sorts of asses, the Persian, for burthen, and the Arabian, which are more mettlesome, to ride on. For hunting, there is sore of wild boars, porcupines red and fallow deer, roes, hares, tygers, lyons, bears, and other wild bears, which when the king hunts are drove into one place, the country for forty miles about and more being surround ed by thirty or forty thousand men, who direct their march to one point, lessening their circle as they advance. There is a prodigious quantity of fov.s, as pigeons, wild geese, cranes, ducks, mal larij, &c. The pigeons they keep in turrets, to de coy the wild ones. They man hawks, and other birds of prey, against these birds, and sometimes use them Against four-footed creatures, having taught their hawks by feeding them out of the hot. low of the eyes of wild beasts, whose skull and whose skin stuffed, they preserve for that purpose; and while the hawk is feeding on it, draw it along by a horse upon a full gallop. Besides hawks and cogs, they make use of ones, creatures about the bigness of a fox very swift, and so tame, that they carry them behind them on horseback; but if the hunter, through mistake, ships them after their game at too much disadvantage, so that they cannot over take it, they are so much cast down with shame, that an infant may kill them.,No gold is coined in Persia, except at the co rotation of kings. There are three sorts of silver money, rome of which have no effigies on them, but only characters expressing the king's name, and the year of tLe Mahometan ara; they have like vise' some brass money of several forms and stamps.,The
The Persian weapons are, for the most part; bows, arrows and fcymiters, although they know how to manage a musket, and have the use of can non and mortars. There is no trusting to the in pantry, but the king upon the least call can, raise one hundred and fifty thousand good men, upon fine horses. But these fight in. confusion, without any order. For the sea, they have not so much as an armed sloop the chief post in the Persian court, is that of atmath duet, who is like the grand vizier in Turkey, all the affairs in the kingdom going thro' his hands. Next to him, is the lazar, who has charge of all that is presented to the king. The next is, the nether, waiting always in the bed chamber, with several handkerchiefs'in a pure to supply him always when he wants. Besides these, there are a great many others having their several departments to superintend; as the keeper of the king's stables, the keeper of his hawks, the keeper of his dogs, one to carry his sword, another his arrows, his secretary, great leeward, a masser of the ceremonies,. a chief of the astrologers, and many others,. so that the Persian court exceeds any other of the east, in splendor and magnificence.,0 S - C tes A- P.
C H A P. XIII. The autlibr's journey to Sc;ras, with a description oj,that city, and ss Darius's palace, in its neighbour. bcod.,E M E L L I left Ifpahan on Wednesday the gift of September, in company with one Neapolitan and two Portuguese friars with their servants, having hired twelve mules of a carrier of Sciaaras, for themselves and their baggage. Being out of Ifpahan and its neighbourhood, they held on their way by moon-light, and travelling nine miles thro' a barren country, were at last obliged to lodge in a mud caravan fera, and likewise to slay there all the next daw, the carriers having for got a load of wine. In this village 'tis said Sciaa. Abbas the great gave many lands to a Persian no leman for the two villages of Ifpahan. The car rivers returning with the wine, and the company having supped, they set forward an hour after fun set, and travelled twenty-four miles to the vil, lage of Hagar, suffering much from the cold and wind. Having rested a:l Friday till the fun went down, they again mounted and rode through a bar ren country for sixteen miles, to the little mud city of Cumufcia, seated in a fruitful plain, abounding in excellent fruit. The roguery of the carriers was the occasion of their travelling by night, for as they slept upon their ashes by turns as found as if they had been irn down beds, they never chose to go from the caravanferas by day, but pretended that it was safe¢' travelling at night; but at last being caught asleep and foundry beaten, they be. gun to travel by day. Saturday the 4th, therefore, they set out two hours before night, and riding,sixteen
sixteen miles in six hours over a barren country, flopped at the caravan fera of Maflur Beck. On: Sunday the 5th, they took their journey much about the sometime, and in the night, passed by the little village of Annabel, and advancing ten miles farther, they flopped at the good caravan sera of the Sacks, seated on the bank of the river, where they found better bread than at Ifpahar, and allowed the carriers to seep on their ass-bed in reward for the day's journey. On Monday the 6th, they departed before fun set, and travel led in thirty-two miles through valleys naked of all trees, and exposed to robbers; at break of day, they arrived at the village of Dighurdu, but find ing the caravan fera taken up, were forced to lie in a ruined house, with their beasts: nothing disturbed them so much as watching to ride by night,. and the trouble of the flies by day ; for they every where found plenty of provisions at reasonable rates On Tuesday the 7th, they rested all day, and diverted themselves in seeing caravans of four or five hundred mules and camels together pars by, that being the most frequented road for the India trade. After sun-set, they mounted, and past by the caravai.fera of Chivola, and sixteen miles far ther over the river Rutcuna, where the Georgians that were with them, took one hundred and fifty pounds weight of good large fishes, with the nets they generally carry about them; then advancing six miles beyond this river, they lodged in the vil lage of Cufchifar, which signifies dry poison; a cold place, by reason of the neighbourhood of the mountains always covered with snow. While they refined here, four ostriches and two wild cows came in, which the sultan of Barren was lending to the king. These cows are as big as one of our calves, but more fat and tender; their colour is whitish,. and on the head are large black spots;. their horns 6 ate
are slender, straight, and smooth. Setting forward! a little before fun-setting, they proceeded thro' ver bad roads, being either marshy plains or dreadful barren mountains: at last having travelled twenty miles, the las three a deep descent, they came to the village of Afpas, where the houses are little better than cottages. Thursday the gth, they set out a- gain two hours before night, and rode sixteen miles on a plain road, to the caravan fera of Ugiam, The soil here is fruitful in corn, by reason of a neigh pouring river, over which is a bridge of nine stone arches. Friday the Icth, setting out at the same time, and riding twenty-four miles, they took up at the good caravan fera of Man. In this place, tho' seated among high mountains, they found good figs, and good tobacco, which is carried to Spa. ban. Saturday the lith, they rode twenty miles, thro' a plain country, crossing the river over a noble stone bridge, a quarter of a mile long, and lay at the caravan fera of Abigherme, five miles from the bridge. Near that place was the mountain level les by Alexander for his army to pass. They set cut late on Sunday evening, to go to a village near the palate of Darius; but losing their way, they altered-their design, and after riding twenty miles they came to t cacravaniera of Policy. On M0n- c.v the r 3t i, they let out an hour after sunset, and r;.:;i:g txwn:y-four miles, came at break of day to Scirs.,cirs is !hated in -a delightful plain, enclosed wrath use .fart mountains; some will have it, that it too its name from the Persian word scire, which fzni, es mu', because of the great quantity of wine made about it; likewise that the plain it sands on was formerly a great lake, and that after the deofru& on of Persepolis, the inhabitants there :f falling it, fci:::d their habitation there. The two melt v valuable things in Sciras are wine and,womn en,
women, whose beauty is so extraordinary, that it serves inftead'of a portion. The gardens of Sciras are no less delightful to the taRe, by reason of the variety and excellency of their fruit, than they are to the eye for their long rows of cypress trees, which at a distance quite hide the mud-walls of the houses, and render the city like a large wood, it being sis teen miles about, too great a compass for twenty thousand inhabitants. Here are excellent bazars covered with long arches, and fine squares, cara- vanferas, and mosques. 'Abundance of money comes to the city for dried fruit, wine, rose-water, oranges, and other fruits. Here they make glasses,. cut crystals for several uses, dress leather, and, print silk. In the mint they coin brass, but seldom silver, tho' the government, of which Sciras is the capital, be one of the best in Persia. There is a curious garden here belonging to the king, with double rows of cypresses all about it, and divided like a chess-board into regular squares of roses and fruit-trees.,As the ruins of Darius's palace are by many pre ferret to those of antient Rome or Greece, and even to the pyramids of Egypt, or the fractures of Alexander the Great, a justifiable curiosity pre wailed upon Gemelli to go and view them; there fore, on Wednesday the Isti, having hired two horses for himself and servant, he rode twenty miles, and came to the reverend bridge of Soliman; then leaving the mountains, they travelled a marshy road for fifteen miles, and an hour before sun-set alight td at the caravan fera of Mlirxafcon, within half a mile of Darius's palace this vast fabric is at the foot of a high mountain that overlooks a plain above thirty miles in length and twenty in breadth, where the famous Per! polis is supposed to have flood. The front of it looks towards the west, and is five hundred,common,3
common paces in length, the north side four hun. died, the south two hundred and fifty; on the east it has the mountain instead of a wall: its ibape, as may appear by the dimensions, is irregular; it has on every side several angles at certain distances, uniformly disposed like so many half bastions. The stones with which it is built are of a prodigious magnitude, and it plainly appears they were dug in the neighbouring mountain, as well because of its nearness, as because they make the top of it plain and equal with the palace. The walls of the first floor fill standing, are crusted over with black marble, and in some places ten, in others twenty, and in others thirty feet high. On the south side out wards there is an inscription, cut in an empty space fifteen spans long, and seven broad, in such a charter that no one has ever been found able to read it. The great fair-cafe of the palace is on the left side; it consists of two flights, each of which has the wall on one side, and a banister of the same marble on the other; at the top is a land. king-place as broad as the flairs to rest; then turn ing to such another, it leads to the first floor. It is extremely magnificent; for it is thirty feet broad, and the easiness of the accent is such, that there are are ninety-five steps to rise twenty-two geometrical feet. The stones are thirty and thirty five spans long each, and of a proportionable depth, so that six or seven steps are cut out of one stone, which having happened to break in any place, has been so artificially mended, that the sharpest eye can farce find out the joint; from whence some have thought there flairs to be cut out of the rock, Both the stairs and walks are of a sort of black marble, so hard that it hath withstood the injuries of time there many ages. From the square landing-place you go into a portico of white marble twenty feet wide i the architrave is now fallen, but,,by
by the pillars still standing, it appears to have been built with such art, that it will be hard to find the remains of any Roman structure to compare with it. Twenty spans. higher, upon the same line, are two fluted columns, with their capitals and bases, about seventy feet high, and so thick, that three men can scarce fathom them, each having forty flutes of about three inches wide. At a like distance, straight forward, are two other pilasters neatly carved, with the figures of beasts, with wings and mens heads looking towards the mountain over all these columns are inscriptions, but the characters are not legible. Beyond this portal, on the right side, is such another double fair-cafe leading to the upper chambers, but narrower than the former by five feet, but incomparably more beautiful and stately ; for on its walls there is something carved in has relief, like a triumph, consisting of a great train of people finely clad, carrying some banners, and others gifts to of ser. At last comes a chariot drawn by several horses with a little altar, out of the middle of which a flame rises. On the other side are carved wild befits fighting, and among them a lion and a bull are done to the utmost perfection. At the top of the second fair-care is a square place, en compassed with columns, whereof only seventeen are now Handing, tho' by the pedestals it appears there were an hundred. Those that remain are fluted, and of an entire piece of white or red marble, some sixty, others seventy feet high, and were said formerly to support the temple of the fun. On the same floor is a place fifty feet square, enclosed with walls six or seven feet thick, where formerly has been many rooms of a much finer marble than that hitherto described, and so won fearfully carved, that it would have required many days to take a full view of the figures, and whole,months
months to draw them; there are four doors into this place, excellently carved, and adorned with curious foliage; only the walls of these chambers remain, being twenty-four feet high. The win cows looked into the court;. and there are several at small distances, three feet wide, and six feet high, and three from the ground. Which way so, ever a man turns his eye, on this second floors there are several figures, cut in bass and half relieve, fill to be seen. In some places were carved men fighting with lions, or holding unicorns by the horn; in other places were princes as it were in triumph, attended by a numerous train In the inner part, and exactly in the midst of the palace, is the amphitheatre for the shows of wild beasts and other sports; here likewise are the remains of several figures cut in half relieve; of men fight ing with wild beasts, and princes sitting with truncheons in their hands, or walking under um. breslau. Besides the rare design and workmanship-of all there figures here spoken of, they are very remarkable for their variety of habits, some having long beards down to the waist, and the hair on the other side so short, it scarce touches the neck; others have a flat round cap on their heads, and their garments down to their heels, wide, full of gathers. like the gowns of senators: other figures differ from there only in the eyes, which they have somewhat higher over the forehead. But what is moi remarkable is, that among lo many hun died figures there is not one woman ; and likewise, though the structure has flood upwards of two thousand years, the marble stands with that bright ness as if it were newly finished, without the least decay ascending a musket-shot towards the mountain, there is a front thirty feet square, cut on the rock,itself,
L ~~~~~~~ sci -t ~-.c- ~ --ih Â± iT h~~~, >- k i rg#: I,i~~~~~~~~~~~JMj t~~-I- / 4
itself, with figures of white marble set in it; un der this frontispiece there is a large arch cut, into which are two tombs cut out of the rock, seven spans long, and three in breadth. Here the royal treasure is supposed to be buried. About a musket sit farther is another front, with such figures and such an arch under it. An hundred paces without the palace southward is a column handing, whose bare is the rock itself.,Some are of opinion that these are the ruins of a famous temple built by Ahasuerus, others will have it to be Darius's palace, but cannot say which of them, by reason of the antiquity of the tradition. Though the magnificence of the city Persepolis be nt mentioned by the most antient writers, yet by the report and narration tf modern travellers, it may tell be thought to have rivalled the famous Babylon and Nineveh: but, being situated ib far in the east, it was little frequented by Europeans, and antiently unknown to their historians and even what slight accounts have we of other cities, tho' eminent for their antiquity and greatness, such as Memphis and Thebes in Egypt? There is no question to be made, but that the antient Persepolis flood in this place, considering the remains of there structures, and the nearness of the river A- taxes, now called Benjamin, near which the an tents placed it; and were it to be frequented by Europeans, no doubt the remains of this truly royal palace would be extolled and reckoned not only as one of the seven wonders of the world, but that there neither is, nor ever was, a wonder in the world to compare to it. Having spent all the day in seeing and diflinaly observing these curious antiquities, Gemelli return ed to Mirxafcon, and on Friday the 7th, mounted early for Sciras, which he reached that night; and one of the friars being taken ill, he resolved tossed
set out for Bander Congo. The chief cause of his illness was five hungry days spent in penance at F. Amaden's table, who would not allow them to be at any expence, left it should be a breach of the laws of hospitality, but yet entertained them so parsimoniously that they could never fill their bellies; for the fowl that were left at noon were dressed again at night, and if they were not eaten, by reason of their ungrateful favour, what was taken away roasted, appeared the next day boiled,,C H A P. XIV. che author's journey to ardor Congo, with an accounts the trade and pearl fiery carried on theresa E friar fill continuing bad, they hired other beasts, and on Sunday the Auth left Sciras about an hour after it was night, without any supper. They travelled all night, and flayed next day at the village of Bagbun, thirty miles from Sciras. Monday the 20th, the friar being worse, a black woman was sent for to cup him, who taking a glass with a pipe to it, applied it to the pa tient's back, and scarifying the flesh, sucked till the drew the blood. Tuesday the 22d, they set out an hour before night, and travelled over a plain well stored with wild boars and gazelles, whereof thirty appeared in the three miles riding, and as ter travelling sixty five miles in three days, they ar rived at the caravan fera of Aflumayer, built of stone and lime, a rare thing in Persia. Before they set out on Friday the 24th, a devise that dwelt in this caravan fera, putting on a long shirt with a sheep (kin on his back like a rochet, and another on his head for a cap, came and made a ridiculous sermon for an alms of a few gazes. The road,thbe
they travelled through was amidst fields of rice, and plantations of palm-trees; but before they arrived at the caravan fera of Mokak, which is twenty-five miles from the former, the country again began to turn barren. The partridges here are in great abundance, and flocks of them came tamely to the caravan fera door, to feed on the corn the mules drop. At this place begins the use of cisterns, and continues to Congo, because there are few brooks, and the rivers are all salt. Saturday the 23d they set out about noon, along a good road, and after riding thirty miles, came to the city Gear ron, which looks more like a wood than a city, as the houses are not contiguous, but built separately amidst. plantations of palms, which yield a considerable profit by their dates. It is seated in a sandy plain, encompassed with high mountains; and tho' small, has a vizier with ample jurisdiction. The houses are not amiss, many of them being of shone and lime. Sunday the 26th they reefed in a noble caravan fera, well-built, near Gearon, and were entertained at dinner with a roasted loin of a gazelle, which was very good meat, being as tender as the veal at Naples, and of a very fine flavour. Monday the 27th they proceeded on their journey betimes, and after five miles they began to climb sleep mountains for twenty miles, to the caravan sera of Ciartalk, and every sep met with such multitudes of partridges, that Gemelli killed twenty of them on the ground without any trouble: here also they saw tome Persian peasants, who tho' poor are courteous, sincere, honest, and simple, and not so false as the Turks, nor such enemies to Chris trans. They let out late on Tuesday the 28th, and after riding twenty miles over hills and plains, came to the caravan fera of Masser, which was well-built, as all the caravanferas here are, upon account of,the
the conveniency of timber. Next day, having tra. veiled twenty fives miles, they rested at the village of Bcnarn. A few miles eastward from this is the mountain Dray, all of black shone, from which distills the precious balsam improperly called mummy, which tho' at first liquid, becomes as hard as gum, somewhat ;blackish, and is so excellent for healing sores, and knitting broken bones, that it is laid, if applied hot after the bones are right set, the cure will be completed in twenty-four hours. The mountain is guarded by the king's order, and all that drops, which is but forty ounces in a year, is sent to him sealed up, to prevent any fraud. September the roth they set out late from Benarn, and after riding thirty miles on a bad road they came to the village of Bell. Next day riding then. ty miles over barren mountains, they lopped at the caravanmera of Acute, and on Saturday the 2d of October, travelling twenty miles over mountains and craggy rocks, they arrived at Lar, the metro. polis of the kingdom of that name. This city is situated in a plain, surrounded with mountains, and, like many others, at a distance resembles a wUrod. The houses are of mud-walls, but the market-place or square is spacious, and enclosed with good buildings, having at the top a kind of funnel, so contrived as to let in any little wind that blows to cool the rooms. On Sunday the 3d they left Lar, and riding fifteen miles between two mountains came to the village of Nimba. Setting out from this next day, they travelled seventy miles in the three following days, without any material thing occurring. On Saturday the 9th, after nine miles riding over the plain, they had eighteen miles among such dreadful rugged mountains, that in some places there were was built along the road, that the caravans might not tumble down headlong. After nine miles riding among these precipices, they,arrived
arrived at the village of Bashan. Sunday the loth, after crossing a rugged mountain, and riding twenty miles, they set up at the village of Kuxert. Mon day the l th, advancing ten miles, they crossed a small river, and then rode along a road of salt, so hard that it looked like a white stone; after wards they met with such precipices that they were fain to walk it; at last, after having spent twelve hours in travelling ten miles, and as much more in the plain, they came to the caravan fera of Banicu. The road was little better for the two following days, they having to climb the high and rugged mountain of Champs; when arrived at the top, they found a new built caravan fera, and two miles farther began to discover the Persian gulph, and Bander Congo. Having descended the mountain they lodged that night in the caravan fera of Champs. Thursday the t4th they set out four hours before day, and rested at fifteen miles end in the village of Barfeia, where they found the heat as great as in Italy in the dog-days. From this village they arrived at Bander Congo by noon, and dined in the monastery of the Augustinian, where they took up their lodging.,Bander Congo is a mere open village, on the sea shore; the houses, for the moss part, of mud-walls; it is governed by a terga, appointed by the vi tier of. Lar, to whom he is subject; but the Portuguese and Christians are governed by the officers of the king of Portugal, who receives almost one half of the tribute yearly, amounting to eleven thousand romans, or ts envy thousand crowns, with five fine horses, and has likewise secured great privileges to his subject residing there, such as keep ing a house with a standard erected on it, the free dom of their religion, and that no Christian dares turn Mahometan in Congo; and, if any Christian be taken in carnal copulation with a Mahometan,woman,
woman, he shall not sussex death, which is the corn. mon punishment, bit shall sussex no more than if he had been taken with a woman of his own religionists trade of Bander Congo is very great, abu. dance of Ships continually resorting thither from India, Mecca, Afford, Arabia-Felix, and other parts laden with rich commodities, and many caravans coming by land to carry the commodities to and from Persia: the pearl trade of all the gulf of Per fia likewise centers here, and affords great profits to the merchants. The manner of buying them is very singular; the pearls being laid in little heaps, the seller lays hold of the buyer's hand, and bar gains with him by signs; if he grasps the whole hand it signifies 'a thousand; if he only touches the palm, five hundred; if a finger, an hundred; if only the first joint of the finger, ten. The buyer answers what he bids by the same signs, and a cloth being thrown over their hands, this is done secretly, so that none of the company can know what is of. served. If they agree, the broker joins the buyer and seller's hands, and giving a stroke upon them with his own, the bargain is concluded. The profit made by the pearls is countervailed by the unhealthiness of the place, the air being so hot in summer, that not only men, but birds and beasts hide them selves for shelter. The mean for: go quite naked, only covering those parts modesty will not allow to be seen ; those that are richer wear an extraordinary thin silk, and their houses are built with conveniences to draw in the least breeze. A kind of worms, like small sinews or fiddle-firings, twenty or thirty spans long, breed in the muscles of the body, which must be drawn out with great care, for if they break they occasion great swellings and pain. The
The inhabitants of Congo are about ten thou sand, Moors, Indians, Arabs, Jews, and Armenians, with a very few Persians. The road for ships is very safe: that point of Arabia-Felix, which forms the Persian gulf, breaking the fury of the ocean, when the day is fair, the opposite coast of Sulphur is to be seen, the distance being only forty miles. There is depth of water for large vessels, and there fore it is resorted to by all nations trading in that part of the world, except the English and Dutch, who go to Gombroon.,Having mentioned the rich trade of pearls, it is proper to say something of the manner and season of filhingfor them: this fishery is in the gulph of Persia, an island of Baharen twice a-year, the first season in March and April, the other in August and September. They fish within five leagues of the city, from four to twelve fathom water, many boats following from morning till noon. Every boat has a diver, who goes down to the bottom, with a stone of six pounds weight tied to his great toe, and a large rope tied under his arms, and fastened to the head of the boat: when got to the bottom, as fast as he can he fills a net extended by an iron hoop, with oysters, and when he can slay no longer for want of breath, he pulls the rope tied under his arms, and is drawn up directly into the boat: this is repeated for the space of ten hours. It is said, some of the divers hold oil in their mouths to slay the longer under water, and now and then let fall a drop of it, to see the better at the bottom. After noon, having drawn up their oysters, all the boats go ashore with a fair wind coming from the sea. The poorer sort sell the pearls immediately for a small matter, but those that do not want keep all till the fitting season is over, and then sell them together to Banians and Moors. Pearls are not found in all the oysters; some have none, and others,contain
contain five or six, of different sizes, the largess nights the edge; and though in other places, both in Europe and Asia, pearls have been found, yet those of the island of Baharen are the fairest and brightest. Those found on the western coal of America, though valued by the Mexican ladies, are despised in Europe upon account of their dusk lead colour having said enough concerning the pearls, it is fit to give some account of other peculiarities of the place. All the water about Baharen being brackish, those that chuse to have fresh cause it to be taken out of the bottom of the sea, a league from the island. Four men go out in a boat, two whereof dive down into the sea, with vessels close stopt at their girdles; when they touch ground, they unflop their vessels, which being filled with the water that is sweet for two or three feet above the ground, they flop them again, and making sign with a rope, are drawn up by the other two in the boat. Their way of building boats is also singular; for instead of iron nails they use Come pins of cane or bamboo; and for the rest they join the boards together with pack-thread, and little lines made of rushes; so that when they are mak ing a new boat, they work like Co many taylors. On Monday the 18th, rome Arabs, accounted rigid observers of the Mahometan law, were asking an alms in th. streets an.! to get the more, clapt burning coals into their mouths, as if they had been cherries; others of them beat their breasts as hard as they could, 'A with an iron pin a span long, with a head weighing six or eight pounds weight, and yet did themir!ve- no h.:rm, though the increment was fit to drive through a wall four Dutch tulips being under sail at Gombroon, our traveller flat away an express to get a passage aboard them, but he came too late, they being,already
already gone for Batavia. That same night the idolatrous Banians, to honour the festival of their god Tivoli, who, they say, took a fortress, began to illuminate their houses, and adorn them with out and within with rich hangings. This festival lass three days, when they all cease from labour. Gemelli went the first night to see it, and was re civet with great civility by these idolatrous mer chants, they Sprinkling his face with rose-water, making him sit in the chief place, and treating him with such sweet-meats as the country affords. Not long after, women-dancers of Syndic came out to dance, some dressed in the Indian, and tome in the Persian manner; those in the Persian habit wore veris strict silk, reaching half way down the leg, and wide at bottom like a petticoat; under these they had long breeches down to their ancles, with a silver-edging. Their fingers and toes were set out with many gold and silver rings, and dyed with red earth, as their teeth, the inside of their eyes, and forehead were with black. On their heads they had small caps of a kind of silk, under which their long tresses hung down to the waist: besides ear rings, each had a thick gold-ring run through be tween the nostrils, and other jewels hanging from and stuck to the forehead, but that of the nose seem ed to be the most painful ornament; for there was a gold-nail struck quite through the upper part of the nose where the bridge rites, which they thought a great ornament. About their necks they had gold collars, necklaces of pearls, and fine bracelets on their wills. In this dress they began to dance gravely, but went on with ridiculous and indecent motions and postures, snapping their fingers as we do castanets, and now and then intermixing singing with their dancing. Thursday the 2xft, Gemelli went to the father vicar to see the pagoda, and tree of the idolaters VOL. VI, P or
or Banians: this tree is the strangest that can be seen, being so large that a thousand persons can be shaded by it: the greatest wonder is, that it has as many trunks as branches, because these, when they are grown to such a pitch, fink their heads in to the ground and cast out new roots, thus be. coming new trunks. The Indians call it work; is leaf is like that of the plane-tree: near the tree was a small round temple or pagoda, about twenty spans in compass, and behind it another smaller to receive the offering of butter, rice, and other things, Opposite to the little door of the first was the image of a woman called Vanani sitting, who, they say, was most free of her beauty, having never relu fed to satisfy any man's define. Her head and feet were of silver, and the small body but two spans Lang, covered with a piece of silk from the shoulders down to the feet. The day being a festival, Saw several Banians make three low bows to her, touching the ground with their foreheads monday the 25;h, a Moorish vessel from Surat arrived at Bander Congo : they sail on the Indian sea at certain fixt times, two several current, or rather trade-winds setting along the Streight be tween Bander Abash and Bander Congo, and meet ing at the point of the island Kafcimi within the bay. Wednesday the 27th, Gemelli rode out with the father vicar to see Mullah Hamet's, that is, learn ed Hamet's garden. It was small, but curious, and the best about Congo; in it were abundance of European fig-trees, grapes, oranges, and many Indian plants, and another tree called badoma!, which produces a sort of fruit like almonds after midnight, all the idolaters, both men and women, went apart to vafsh themselves on the sea. shore, thebrachmans preaching to the men, and their wives to the women; this ceremony they perform once a month, upon a certain day of the moon,,faftin
failing the day before, thereby thinking to cleanse themselves of ail their sins. Next day appeared, as a curiosity, an Ethiopian extravagantly clad, like a fachir, having a cap upon his head all set off with feathers at the top, and with shells about the border, and a girdle with about two thousand goats hoofs hanging to it, and jingling like so many bclis; in this ridiculous habit did he walk so gravely that it was pleasant to see him. Friday the 5th, an Enolifll vessel came into the harbour to take in a loading for Surat, and next day the heat was so great, that many of the people slept on the roofs of their houses, and in the courts. On Thursday the Sith, an express came from Ilpahan, with the news of a permission to drink wine, and that the new king drank as hard as his father had done.,On Thursday the i8th the English vessel being ready to sail, the two friars, who had agreed for their passage on board, prepared for their voyage, and next day went away to Bander Abash to sail from thence to Surat. They preferred the English hip, because the Moors, inhabiting the coast of the gulph, were then at war with Porter and had fourteen men of war at Mafcatte, and ere frequently committing hostilities ft sea. Ge mali chose rather to go in a Moorish vessel, be cause he wanted to avoid going to Surat, where he heard the custom-house was very severe on ac count of pearls, and fearing like wise, if he should go in an English flip, to be taken by the French, who were then at war with ein, and were lying in wait to fall upon them about Surat. Tuesday the 23d, the commissioner entertained him at his hone, with the diversion of women-dancers, uho, after the carpets were spread, began their dance, three and then two, to the music of pipes, flutes, drums, and four tabors. After several grave mo tions and windings, they sung a while, and the,P 2 youngest
youngest flood up with some small horse-bells about her arms, and danced alone, cutting capers, and making strange motions with her body, to provoke lasciviousness and laughter.,CH A P. XIV. 'he author's voyage to Damam in Hindostan, with at,cccunt of it, Surat and Bazaim, and a description Ã³f a pagoda in the island of Canary. ALL things being in readiness for the voyage gemelli, after having caused his baggage to be brought from the monastery, went aboard with the nicoda, or captain, on Friday the 26th, where he found all the provisions he had occasion for, laid in generously by the Portuguese commissioner, Failing that same evening late, they arrived next day at Angon to take in fresh water, which is not allowed to be done at Congo, left the natives should want; but the cisterns being dry, they were ob. lived to take it in at the neighbouring island of Ken forini, two miles distant; while the sailors were employed in taking in the water, Gemelli went on shore to view the island, which is long, and stretches out a great way to Bander Abash, being about nine ty miles in compass. The soil produces grapes, figs, dates, and other sorts of fruit for the support of the natives, but their greatest sustenance is ifb; for they catch abundance of pilchards, and dry them in the fun for their food through the year. On this island is a regular sort of four bastions, built by the Portuguese, but now ceded to the king of Persia, and likewise a few villages, the me metropolis having been ruined by the wars, and frequent change of sovereigns. Tuesday the 30th, the lea being calm, the nicoda and other Moors,diverte
diverted themselves, trying which of them was best at hitting a pack-thread with a bullet; they (hot well, and the captain hit it twice. Wednesday the ft of December they sailed betimes with a fair wind, so that next day they palled in sight of the island of Ormuz, which lies at the mouth of the Persian gulph, two Spanish leagues from the conti went: within its compass of three miles there crows neither tree nor herb, but it is all over covered with good white full, which renders the soil quite barren, though by the tradition of some it is reckoned to have been the terrestrial paradise, created for our first parents, and swept down thither by the flood. Friday the 3d, they lay off the mountain of Data in Arabia-Felix, because the wind being contrary, they rather lost than gained ground. At night it blew a storm which on Saturday the 4th turned to so fair a wind, that it carried there into the spa pious Indian ocean, though still in sight of the con tient: in the mean while the chief employment of the sailors was to paint their eye-lids every day with a certain black ointment, good, as they said, to preserve the sight; to pluck the hairs off their beards with nippers where they would not have them grow; and dye the nails of their hands and toes with red earth. Holding on their course eastward, on Sunday the 5th they came in sight of the islands Locality, Graver, and others, inhabited by Baluccos, who are pirates, that lie in wait be hind their islands in small barks to seize Ships that pass by. They have also a large extent of land on the continent, between Persia and the Mogul's do minions. They are Arabs in religion and manners, treating their slaves with incredible cruelty, even to cutting the sinews of their ancles that they may not run away tuesday the 7th, the heat was so violent that the winter in India seemed equal to the summer in,P 3 Italy,,
Italy, though there be no difference as to length of days; during these heats the Persians used to strip theme-es naked in the morning betimes, and haie a great dea! of sea-water poured on their heads to warn all their bodies, which generally slink, because of the coloured shirts they wear several months without ever shifting. The wind continu ed fair Wednesday the 8th, and at noon they had a false alarm, perceiving a vessel making towards them: it was ridiculous to fie the hurry arid trepidation of the Moors in fitting their mtufletc, which were all match-locks, and the only defence they had: when the vessel came near the hoisted red colours, to shew she was a friend, and went away to westward thursday the 9th, before uprising, they discovered a small bark to the eastward, which made the Moors very valiant; for, laying hold of their rusty arms, they began to bark like dogs at a distance The bark leaving them, and sailing away to the northward, they believed it to belong to the pirates called Sanganos and Ranks, who make no slaves, but take what they find aboard without hurting any body. They live on the continent near Syndic, and in some islands, and go out in small barks and rob along the coast, and even in the bay of Surat; their petty king is tributary to-te great mogul', and resides in the city Rumors en the continent, and sometimes in the plaint San gannet. Thecalm returning, they saw about even ing a eftTel of these San.anos plying about their flip, therefore Gemelli being jealous of their define, advised the niccda to deliver the powder to twenty soldiers that w-are aboard, to lod This great guns, and to place sentinels, for the Moors sail like brutes, v.'irhout any precaution, and are giving cut nm munition, and charging their fire-arms when the enemy is upon thin. On Saturday afternoon, a,feamnaa
seaman taking a sill of about five pounds weight, fasted it, and sold it to the passengers for eight c:.ow's. as it was the first fish. caught in the voyage. On Monday night a storm arose, and did not only last tit day, but blew so violently on Tuesday the lath, t-hat it made the ignorant! mater and pilot lose al the ground they hid gained, and returned to Keflcimi. In ii git of them was another veii:l, supposed to be the Enghli. ship bound for iu:a', which beat it out without losing ground as tie moors did, who not.itiflanJing the entreaties oi Gemelli, desiring them to do the like, would not endeavour to imitate such a good example. VVediief- ':y the 15th there was such a violent florin that the flip was in feme danger; and it raining all day, thole under, as well as above deck, were all wetted. The Moorish women in the poop wept bitterly, as did their husbands, without calling upon their false prophet Mahomet, to deliver them from impending death thursday the 16th the wind came sir, but tho' the flip made good way, they could scarce regain what they lost the day before; their misfortune was they had an ignorant pilot who sailed by guess, which the captain at last observing, came in lofty terms, and told Gemelli that he had flood again for the Indies for his sake, and therefore he should see whether the vessel held her course. Gemelli told him, it did not; for the pilot having swallow ed opium, which added to his natural stupidity, and Standing in for the land, at night they must certainly be lost upon rome rock. The captain by this remark believing he had sonne skill in navigation, prayed him to stand by the compass, and take the di rection of the flip; and he being equally in danger with the moors, and seeing the pilot quite unfit for his charge, complied with the captain's desire; and finding by the helm directed his course southwards 4 and.
and when any vessel appeared, made the men hardly their arms, that they might not be lost through their cowardice. At lash, upon every accident they called for the aga Gerelli, believing, as being an European, he mush understand every thing; so great an opi. non have they of us.,On Friday the with they found themselves in the same place they were in eleven days before, a plague all are subjea to who fail in Moorish this. On Saturday the I8th, the wind being fair they made much way, as the flip was light, and they had six sails aboard, the nicoda taking no more notice of the fearful pilot, since Gerelli advised him to make all the sail he could when the wind was fair; at night a gun was fired for joy of the appearances the new moon, and all of them shaking hands, wished one another a happy month. For the six following days they made little or no way, and on Saturday the 2;th, Gerelli being greatly disappoint ed, as he had hoped to keep Christmas on bore, made them cast the lead to see if they were near any land; accordingly they founded, and found eighteen fathom water, and soon after saw a great many weeds floating on the sea, carried down by the Indian rivers. Next day they saw tome snakes drove out by the rivers into the sea, but about even ing a contrary wind starting up, disappointed their hopes of seeing land; yet before day the ignorant pilot and sailors began to fancy they saw the land and sort of Diu, nef far from Damam, running farther out into the sea than any other: upon this joyful news, the captain treated all the sailors with cacciara, which they eat after this manner, fire dipping their hands into a dish of melted but ter, they filled them with cacciara, and so cram need their mouths. This fortress of Diu, which the moors then vainly imagined they saw, is seated in a small island very near the continent, and bay,Qi
of Cambaya. Its port is capable of containing large ships; the baffle stands on the top of a rock, hav ing no other high ground to command it, and fur rounded by precipices, with only a narrow path cut out of the very rock, so that a single man may de send it, for which reason the conquest of it cot the Portuguese more blood and treasure than all their other conquests in India; but it was worthy of the expence, as it is a check upon all ships that sail the Indian ocean. When the king of Cambaya besieged this place, Don Nuno d'Acuna governor of Goa came to relieve it, and not only raised the siege, but killed the king. Afterwards entering the city Diu in the year 1535, found an old man of three hundred and thirty-five years of age, who had a son of ninety; he had Shed his teeth three times, and his beard as often grew grey as ter having been black; he begged of Don Nuno. about half a crown a day, telling him king sultan Buda had allowed him so much; but the gene rous Portuguese, instead of one, allowed this In tian phenix three, in respect of his venerable age; at last he died at about four hundred years of age, having been first a Pagan, then a Mahometan, and last of all a Christian. They likewise tell of an other that lived three hundred years at Malacca.,Having in imagination discovered the point of Diu, they flood away to the southward for Damam,. and two days after discovered land, and the pilot understanding neither chart nor compass, all the Moors believed that the land they 'aw was the village of Maim near Brain, a city belonging to the Portuguese, and consequently they were at the end of their voyage. The tailors all rejoiced; and the merchants much more, as thinking their lives and estates in safety, and the ignorant pilot, vainly puffed up with pride, for having brought the flip safe to India, went about with a sheet of,P 5 paper
paper in his hand, to enter what the pafifeicer, promised to give him as a reward for his care and coming to Gemelli, he said he would giv; nothing, for he rather deserved to be punished thar rewarded, as the land they saw was not what hi imagined saturday the if of the year Withdrawing near to the shore, upon the mistaken notion that the were on the Portuguese territories, the boat war sent off to discover it. Gemelli not regarding danger, to satisfy his curiosity, vent inconsiderately aboard it, both to see the country and hear news. The contrary wind, which blew hard, would not permit them to make direri!l for the villae, but drove them ashore a mile from it: being dis covered from land, a bark put out to enquire what vessel theirs was, as they went to be informed what country appeared to them. They were told the village was called Mangalor, in the kingdom of Guzarette, four hundred miles from Damam. This news terrified Gemelli, and therefore endeavoured to persuade the Floors for their safety, to cut the rope which towed them to the other vessel, and escape, if possible, to their own ship; but they refuted, telling him, the bark was too fircon for them, and having more oars than they, child certainly overtake them. There being no other remedy, they suffered themselves to be led before the commander of the place, who received them with civility, contrary to their expectation, and suffered them to take in water, which they greatly needed. They likewise informed them; that the point they took for Diu was the country of the Sanguinis pirates, opposite to which place they had lain before three days becalnied.,Having taken water, and obtained leave to re turn to their flip, at break of day they set sail with a fair wind, which afterwards ceased and left,them
them becalmed. All the sailors and passengers blamed the pilot, who, instead of carrying them to DJrnam, had run them four hundred miles higher eastward. Some were for throwing him over board, others were satisfied with railing, and turn ing him from the hen for his ignorance. Twelve merchants, and Moorish fathers who went to beg in the Indies, for this reason refused to go any farther aboard the flip, and being set on shore, travelled the rest on foot. Monday the 3d, the wind proved so cross they could not reach Diu, and this because the Moors are a whole hour in spread ing a sail, calling Mahomet to their affiance, with a tedious song tuesday the 4;h, the wind came about fairer, and being near land at night, they kept but one sail aboard, sounding continually though they were thirty leagues from land, the Indian seas being very shallow. Wednesday the 5th they discovered land, and thought they were between Damnum and Ba aim, and upon drawing nearer, the water began to look whiter by reason of the rivers running into it; but the Moors dropt anchor as the wind was a little unfavourable, not knowing how to advance a step without a very fair wind. They weighed anchor at midnight, but dropt it again on Thursday the 6th before day for the same reason; so that when Gemelli expected to have kept a merry twelfth-night on lore, after a hard lent at fera, because his provision fell flos t, he was forced against his inclination to continue his abstinence. Impatient to know what country it was, he went into the boat, but being hindered by the flats from corning any nearer than within half a mile of the lnrr, two seamen swam thither to get tome in intelligence. One of them only ventured to return, aid brought an account, that they were within ta o t. 's journey for a foot-traveller from Damam.,P 6 Friday
Friday the 7th, they hoisted sail about noon, and anchored again in the evening. After midnight they advanced again, and Saturday the 8th at fun rising, at length came to an anchor off Damam, and expected to reach it that afternoon with the return of the tide, but by the ignorance of their pilot, when they set sail they lost ground, so that they were obliged again to cash anchor, and it was Monday before they reached the place, after a voyage of twelve hundred miles run twice over, Gemelli went immediately ashore with the captain, and found the two friars that had failed in the. English ship, who carried him to their monastery of St. Augustin, and the prior receiving him cour teoufly, invited him to lodge with him. Having staid there all night, he landed his baggage, which the favor allowed to pals unearthed for the sake of the commissioner at Bander Congo.,The city Damam belongs to the Portuguese, and is seated on the left side of the river of that name, in twenty degrees of latitude. Though but ill peopled, it is beautiful enough, and built after the Italian manner. Three broad streets divide it in length, and four across them, and all so regularly built, that the corners of the houses do not jet out an inch beyond one another; it is true, most of them have only a ground floor, and are covered with tiles. Instead of glass, their win cows are made of oyster shells, curiously wrought and transparent; and every house has its garden or orchard with fruit trees. The air of Damam is very good, as they have cool mornings even in their summer, which lasts from October till the end of April. The compass of the city is about two miles, without any ditch on the east and south sides, but with a low entrenchment breast-high, yet it has four modern and well-built bastions, tho' unprovided v.ith cannon. The government is ina corna
commandant, who keeps always a good garrison; and the favor before-mentioned has charge of the king's revenue. The inhabitants are Portuguese, Jericho, Pagans, and Mahometanss, but the two last are not allowed the free exercise of their religion There are several good monasteries, especially that of St. Augustin, which had an excellent square cloister, with twelve stone-columns, besides the four great pillars at the angles. All that has been mentioned belongs to new Damam, the old town being on the other side of the river, and inhabited by Moors and Pagans, living in low houses with mud-walls, and covered with palm-tree leaves. Between the two towns is the harbour, made by the river, but no vessels, either great or small, can go out or come in but with the favour of the tide, the current being so firing as it ebbs and flows; and vessels of great burthen can only go out or in at spring-tides. The entrance into the harbour is defended by a small castle with three bastions, well enough furnished with cannon.,In the year I535, Martin Alphonse de Sousa took and defrayed Damam in three days. In 1559 D. Constantine re-took it from Aside Bofita, who had revolted from his sovereign: the great mogul has attempted to reduce it several times, and particularly Aureng-Zeb laid siege to it with an ar my of eighty thousand men, but it wish bravely defended, that he was forced, after lying three months before it, to march off with the loss of half his army the Portuguese live very magnificently in India, both as to their tables, cloathing, and number of cafres or slaves, having rome of these to carry them in palatines on their Shoulders, while others hold great umbrellas of palm-tree leaves; this palatine is somewhat like a bier, with two well-wrought rings at both ends, and covered with a Persian,carpet,
ca2rpt, over which is laid Russian leather and silk pinions; there are ropes or iron-rings fastened to the ends, through which they run a bamboo to lay on the shoulders of the backs who carry it. In rainy weather they use another sort ofcarriagecallcd 2ror7, rxvith a coveting made of palm-tree leaves, snoring like the rise of a thousand two small v.inJows that may be opened on the sides, to see who goes among the streets. when they go out of town, or travel force days journey, they ue a sort of coach drawn by oxen, guided by a cord run through their nostrils; these coaches are square, and can hold bu two; the top is commonly co vexed :sith silk, and three des open there is little good fish to be eaten in Damam, the pork and beef being ill-tasted; they seldom kill sheep or goats, and every body cannot go to the price of fowls: fish is aiib scarce, and none cf the bes: the bread is extraordinary good, even that thee, make of rice. They have not one of our European fruits, but all Indian, as coco-nuts, man, sans, gambols, undid, &c. As for herbs, they have many of the European, and of the country. The have likewise plenty of game; for besides wild boars, wolves, foxes, and hares, in the mountains are those called maccabees, in shape like bucks, and in tape like swine; zambanes, with soldierlike oxen, and hers like a stag; gazelles, like goats; dives, like foxes; roses, resembling a cow; wolves with hairs horns; black wild cats, vwih wings like those of the bats; three sorts of tygers, and wild horses and cows. Besides four-footed beasts, there is plenty in the woods of peacocks, partridges of two sorts, ducks, pigeons, turtle-doves, and other sorts known in European mani in India muss be very regular in eating, or he will fall into some incurable distemper, or at least such as must be cured after the'country faihion,with
with fire, experience having shewn, that European medicines are of no use there. Some diseases they cure by applying a red hot spit to both the heels; others by burning the belly about the navel: for fear of these diseases, on flesh days they only eat fl;fll at dinner and fil at supper the habit of the Portuguese fettled there is somewhat odd ; for under their coats or veris they fear a sort of breeches, which when tied lease fo!nethig like the tops of boots upon the leg; ethers under short doublet wear wide silk breeches, and some have them hanging to their ancle, and fearing for hose. The Pagans wear a long silk gar n)cnt, gathered about the waist like a petticoat; un der it they have long breeches down to their heels on their shoulders hangs a bit of silk, which they wrap about their heads when it is cold; others go naked, only covering their privities with a clout. The women have no other garment, but a long piece of suff, wherewith they cover all their body, except their legs, and part of their belly. Some adorn their bare arms with bracelets, and firings of glass and latten, their ears with large silver pen dents, and their ancles with rings of the same metal.,Gtmelli having a curiosity to see Surat, and it being easy to go thither, as the convoy was ready to sail for Cassava and other parts, he desired a pasha of the commodore, of the galliots on board his frigate, which carried twenty guns. He civilly granted it, and on Saturday the sith they em barked, and the great stream carrying them out of the harbour, they sailed with a fair wind all night. Sunday the x6th they came in sight of the bay of Surat about break of day, it being about sixty miles from Damam. Gemelli immediately went ashore with the commodore's nephew, where the cuflorn-,7 house
house officers searched their bags narrowly for pearls surat is placed in twenty degrees of latitude, at the mouth of the bay of Cambaya, and kingdom of Guzarette; it is not large, and is enclosed by a weak wall: the castle is no better, having four towers but no ramparts; the governor of it only commands the garrifon-foldiers, the city being go versed by a nabab, who receives the king's taxes throughout the whole province. The private houses are built with mud, mixt with cows dung, and small brush-wood broke. There are not above a dozen good ones in all: nevertheless Surat is the prime mart of India, all nations of the world trad ing hither, no ship sailing the Indian ocean but what puts in there to buy, sell, or load. In Surat there is a trade not only for all sorts of spice, but of very rich gold and silk stuffs, of very fine cot tons, and other commodities brought hither from other remote parts.,Cambaya, the metropolis of that kingdom, was a large and rich city, whilst the Portuguese were possessed of it; but after they abandoned it, and retired to the sea, it lost much of its splendor and magnificence. Barouche, within ten miles of Surat, is famous for its excellent white and stained calli coe's, as also for ginger; many other countries, like rivers to the sea, convey all their wealth to Sugar, because of the good vent they find for it therein the neighbourhood of Surat is a tree of the Banians, and a paged of the same sort as that at Bander Congo. Under this tree, and in the places adjacent, there are many men called fathers or penitents who have enjoined themselves, and per form such dreadful penances that they will seem fa bulbous to the reader; you may see one hanging by a rope tied under his arms and to the tree, only his feet touching the ground, and the rest of his,body
body bended, and foformany years, without chang ing place or posture day or night. Others have their arms lifted up in the air, so that, in process of time, there grows such a stiffness in the joints that they cannot bring them down again. Others stand upon one foot, and others lie along with their arms under their heads for a pillow. Thus they continue naked all seasons of the year, with vast long hair, and nails grown out, exposed to the rain, and the fun's burning rays, and to be flung by flies, which they cannot drive away. Other fathers who take that employment, supply their necessities of eating and drinking thursday the 20th, a young Frenchman con dusted Gemelli to see an hospital of there pagans, where many birds and beasts were kept; this they do, because they believe the transmigration of souls, and therefore imagining those of their forefathers may be in the vilest, they provide them with food. Thus the wild monkies come to eat what is pro vide for them. Besides the prodigious number of birds and beasts maintained there, particular care is taken of the lame and sick. But what was most amazing was to see a poor wretch naked, bound hands and feet, to feed the biggs and vermin, fetched out of their slinking holes for that purpose and this voluntarily for a small reward, according to the hours he lies bound. Friday the 21if as he was returning home, he Law a great croud of people about a pagan's shop, and in the midst of them a fellow with a hen in one hand, and a knife in the other, and was informed that the man was a rogue, who when he wanted money carried the hen to the streets where the gentiles lived threat king to kill it, that they might give him money to fate its life, as they believed the soul of some of their ancestors might be in the hen saturday the 22d, all the vessels from Cambaya,,Diu,
Diu, E'rochi, and other places, being come t.ge ther to sail for Goa and other dominions of Port. gal, Genii again went aboard, and failing cut of the mouth of the tier with a fair wind, they held on their course all nigh:. Saturday the 2d1, the g:liots came to an anchor aster non without the mc:::l of the river Damien, and some final barks king up, G-en-e!ii ct fitted the convoy, and in one of t-em returned to DLamam. And next day he took leave of his friends, there being an op portunirv to embark for !azirm.,On Tuesday the 25th, Gemelli, with the two friars, set cut for Bazaim, in a vessel of Dieu that car cried six oars, with o:e falconer, and seventeen Portuguese and Canada soldiers. At ebb they fct forwards, with the help of a finally gale, and fa poured by the tide, which was then setting towards Bazaim. Wednesday the 26th they were offthe town and sort of Sapor, a place well inhabited with monasteries of dominicans and reckless. Ten r.i'es from this the Portuguese have another im Fregnable cas-le, called Afi:rim. The wind con tninuin fair, they sailed by the fort and village of Maim, and then by the little island de la Paca, cr of the Cow, three miles in compass, and not far dill'ant from Bazaim ; but much time being spent in waiting upon barks and parancos that came un der convoy, it was midnight before they could rca.c' t, where anchoring before the channel form ed b- t!i;,c fi-]i iiaand nd the continent, on Thurs. ca 'te 2o7th they went in with the flood. There be::r- no houses of entertainment in the city, the: 'ere received by F. Felicitous, born in China, Ont crim r of the monastery of the Augustinian, vt.o area them very courteously, and like a true ForrL .u c:.,E:z?.irr, in the kingdom of Cambaya, is seated itt nLine::;n degrees of latitude: Nuno d'Acuna, irt,the
the year I535, took it for king John of Portugal, from Bazar king of Cambaya, who, terrified by the valour of the Portuguese, surrendered it to them with the neighbouring islands. The compass of Bzaim is three miles; it has eight nations, not all finished. On tie north-fide the walls have rants parts, and the other fortifications are not yet finished Cne third of the city towards the north is un peopled, by reason of the plague which some years ra" ill it. The insects are wide a-nd straight, and the great square or market has good buildings about it. The harbour is on the east-fide formed by the island and continent. the government is in captain and the administration justice in a vendor and the dtfamburgadtor, who is judge of appeals from all the other vendors of the northern coast. The Portuguese general resides at Bazaim, with sovereign, authority over the captain of that and all other northern places sunday the roth the beat was greater than at Damam, so that both women and men went about the streets naked, the men only covering their privates with a clout, and the women their thighs with a piece of linen. The people of fashion at that time wore silk and very thin niuflins. All the gentiles bore their notes to put rings through, and every beggar, much more those that are well to plus, rubs his teeth every morning with a sick, and sends two hours at that work, according to t, e custom of the country. On Monday the lait of the month, tome vagabond Moors vaulted, and per formed seats of activity like our tumblers and rope dance s. The molt wonderful thing was, to see a man who turned round upon a cane thirty spans i!h, an eld the by another upon his girdle; yet he who supported the cane went on without put ting his hand to guide it, and he that was on the top of it did not help himself with his hands nei-,tlier,
ther. At last, after having given two skips in the air, he alighted on a very high beam fixt for that purpose tuesday the gift of February, a messenger came from the nabab of Surat in a palatine, with thirty soldiers, to treat about some business with the go. vernon. Wednesday the 2d, Gemelli went in an pandora to see Caffabo, where all the country houses are; nothing appears for fifteen miles but delight ful gardens, planted with several sorts of the count. try fruit-trees, as palm, figs, mangas, and abu. dance of sugar-canes. The peasants, who are Christians, Mahometanss and Pagans, keep the gar. dens always green and fruitful, by watering them with certain engines, so that the gentry, allured by the cool and delightful walks, retire hither in the hottest weather, to take the air, and get away from the contagious disease called durazzo, which is like a bubo, and so violent, that it not only takes away all means of preparing for a good end, but in a few hours depopulates whole cities the sugar-canes that grow here are pressed be tween two wooden-rollers, turned about by oxen, whence they come out thoroughly squeezed; after wards the juice is boiled in cauldrons, and being set out to cool at night in earthen vessels, it hardens into white sugar thursday the both there was a wedding of people of quality at the church of our Lady de la Vida; the bridegroom did not give the bride the right-hand, but, as they do in Portugal, and after the manner of crowned heads, assumed it himself: the reason they give for it is, that the bridegroom may have his right-hand at liberty, to use his sword in defence of the lady. The bride was richly clad after the French fashion, but fame trumpets went along, founding such a doleful tone,,as
as little differed from what is used when conducting criminals to an execution there are no doors of the civil law throughout the Portuguese dominions in India, and these few Canaries, who follow this employment, thro' their ignorance prove bad advocates or counsellors, and the same man sometimes pleads both for plaintiff and defendant. Besides, for the most part, causes are decided by ignorant captains, without the ap probation of an assessor; this happens for want of an university and colleges to teach the law.,In the island of Salfette, by the Portuguese called Canary, there is a pagoda which is accounted one of the greatest wonders in Asia, as well because it is looked upon as the work of Alexander the Great, as for its extraordinary and incomparable workmanship. Gemelli having a desire to see this, was persuaded to go by Deins. Accordingly, Sun day the I3th, hiring a boat he went over into the village of Coromandel in the island of Gazette, and from thence, upon the freight to the village of Deins. F. Edward, an Augustinian procurator, received him into his house, on account of a letter of recommendation ; and Gemelli being dry he brought him two citron-peels preserved, one of which Gemelli eat without considering, and drank a glass of water, but observing the other, found it swarming with hundreds of live pismires. After this poor refreshment he went to the village of Mo nopofler, a mile distant, to see a church under ground, formerly a pagoda cut in the rock, on which (lands the college and monastery of the Franciscans. It is an hundred spins long, and thirty broad; the side-walls are of the natural rock, and only the front made by art. Returning to Deins, F. Edward told him, that tho' he had used all his endear ours, he could not find men to carry his pandora, for his people were fled, by which per-receiving
ceiling the father was an exception to the general civility of the Portuguese, he was forced to take up with an ill house. Next day the owner, who was a Pagan, brought him a horse when the day was far advanced ; therefore thinking to take some little meat before be set out, good sparing Edward told him the bread was not come, nor was it vet baked, but he might dine in a village half way; he likewise ref. fed to appoint him a peasant or ser want to sew him the way to the pagoda, where upon Gemelli set out with his landlord, in danger of losing his way for want of a guide, travelling on a mountain full of monkies, tygers, lions, and other wild bears and venomous creatures. Com in, to the village where he designed to eat, he found nothing but a little rice half-boiled in fair water, si that he went on fasting. By the way he met strange birds, some were green, as big as a thrusts, and sang very well, others bigger, black as vel-et and with very long tails; there were also an innumerable company of parrots, monkies, and apes with very long tails, leaping from tree to tree after riding eight miles through the thick woof, they knew not where the .rod was, or what way to take to find it. It pleased Providence they hay opened to meet xlth some naked pagan women, who put them into the road. Being come to the foot rs the rock he found a peasant wandering, and giving him the horses to hold, he climbed the bare craggy rock, with the idolater, at the top whereof, on the ear-fide, the great pagoda is hewn out, with other small ones by it.,The fitit piece of workmanship that appears consists of two large columns twenty spans high; the third part, from the bottom upwards, is square; the middle part rectangular, and the top round their diameter is six fans, they are fifteen fpa"i,dilia;lt
ir-~~N - 1:-i-,/I
.distant from one another, and eight from the rock; they support a stone architrave forty-four spans long, four thick, and eight:broad, cut out esther same rock as the column:. Three porticos of this sort lead into a kind of hall cut likewise in the rock. At the end of it are three doors, one fifteen spans high, and eight in breadth, which are the way into a lower place .over these doors is a cornish four spans broad, of the same stone. Thirty spans higher above the ground, other such doors and windows are cut in the rock. Advancing ten paces towards the right, there is a sort of grot open on two sides, twenty-four spans in length, and fifteen in breadth, over which is a round cupola sis teen spans high and ten wide. Here is an idol cut in the reck in half relieve, which seems to hold something in its hand, and has a cap on its head, like that of the doge of Venice. By it stand two statues, in a submissive posture, as if they were servants, with conical caps. Above these are two finally figures like the angels we paint in the air. Below are two little statues, holding their hands on a stuff, and two children by their sides as if they prayed; on their backs is something like a piece of wood. Close by is another round cupola, all of one stone, but not hollow within. About this second there are four great figures carved in half relieve, holding in the left-hand something like a garment. Opposite to them there are three little ones sitting, and six other large ones, and three of a middling size standing, all cut in the rock in the same manner. On the other side are sixteen figures, all sitting, with both hands on their breasts. At a snail distance northward is a little grot eight spans square, and in it as it were a bed of the same stone, four spans broad, and eight long; on the other frontispiece is a statue siting on its less, with the hands together on redbreast,
breast, and another sanding with the branch o a fruit-tree in its hand, and above, a winged in. sant.,On the same side is the famous pagoda of the Ca. narin; the entrance to it is through an opening forty spans long, in a walls the same stone fifty spans long and eight spans thick, on which there are three statues. On the right-hand, before you go into the pagoda, is a round grot, and in the middle rites a round cupola, cut out of the same rock, with several characters carved upon it, which man could explain. Going into the first porch of the pagoda, which is fifty spans square, there are on the sides two columns sixty spans high, and six spans diameter; beyond these columns at the entrance of a grot, on the left, there are two great statues find. ing in the attitude of looking at one another. Still farther in are two very big statues on the left all standing, with several little statues by them. On the right-hand are two large vessels upon con lenient pedestals. Going forwards there are three doors thirty spans high each, and eight broad, that in the middle even with the floor, those of the sides three spans above it. In this place on the sides-besides several small figures, there are two vas fla tues of giants standing, above twenty-five spans high, with pendents in their ears after the Indian fashion. At the entrance of the great gate there are on the right four statues standing, one of which is a woman holding a flower in her hand; on the left are also four, two whereof are women, with large rings about their ancles of the same Pone, and sixteen little statues on their sides. The pa god is arched, forty spans in breadth, and an hun. died in length, and rounded at the end; within are thirty columns-which divide it into three isles; seventeen of them have capitals and figures of elephants on them, and the rest are ocangularand,6 plain
plain. The space between the columns and the. rock, that is the breadth of the side ices, is six. span sall that has hitherto been described is cut in th very rock without any addition to the statues, but: on the floor of the pagoda are several hewn stones;. which perhaps formerly served for steps to some future. Coming out of the pagoda, and ascending; fifteen steps, all cut out of the rock, there are two. cisterns of rain water good'to drink; and fifteen steps; higher a great one with much water, and mounting: twenty steps higher a small one in the middle of the grotto. At a small distance from these grotto; is another pagoda with a handsome plain place be fore it, and little benches about it to sit down, and a cistern in the middle. On both the sides,, and over the entrance there are above four hun died figures great and small carved, some sitting,. some standing, like those before spoke of. De scending fifty direct steps there is a-plain space cut in the rock, which is not very hard, and eight oc angular columns twelve spans high, through which, by five steps, you ascend into. an arch. In this place, on the left side, is a great idol sitting bare ended, two other great statues standing, and some all ones. The. pagoda is an hundred spans inw length, fifty in breadth, and ten in height. About runs an arch eight spans broad, with ten square lumps. In short, the arches, grotto, pillars, and agues are very numerous, and the workmanship finishing: it is reported the whole was erected: the particular order of Alexander the Great. Descending from the high rock, Gemelli mounted" horseback with a good stomach, having salted that day against his will. By the way he few a- abundance of monkies and apes, and being about to; ill one, the Pagan prayed him not to hurt them. VOL. VI. Nearer
the village of Canary, which gives its name to the pagoda, is a rock an hundred' paces about with. several grotto or cisterns under it. On th, leaf side before the largest grotto, is a great ido sitting, with his hands across-on his legs. Return: ing to Deins, and going up to his chamber, and looking for something to eat, the servant set before him a little bread, with some citron peels covered with pismires, these vermin leaving nothing un, touched in India; for which reason, to preserve things as much as they can, they place them upon tables, whose feet are put in wooden bowls full of water. At length, late in the evening, F. Edwards thought of some supper, and ordering the cloth to be laid, two plates of small dried fishes appeared, and that which had the least was set before Gemelli; rhe other before the father the island Salfette, in which the aforesaid pa, god is seated, is about seventy miles in compass, twenty in length, and fifteen in breadth; being very low, it is cut by several channels running from the sea, but there are high mountains in it covered with trees. The soil is very fruitful, and produces abundance of sugar-canes, rice, and fruit. 't here are in it several villages of poor wretched Gentiles, Moors, and Christians, living in hould built with wattles plaistered over with: mud, and thatched with straws or palm-tree leaves. These villages are given in fee to soldiers who have fervet long, or to other persons that have well deserved of the crown, for three lives, after which they generally endeavour to renew,: but to the church they are given for everywhere are in this island several places of conte quench, as Bombay, a city and fortress several miles about; it is. parted from Salfette by a clans uCl, which at low water, is fordable. This plaC,wsla1
was given by the king of Portugal in dower to queen Catharine of England, and it has been accordingly possessed by the English ever since the year 1662. In Salfette are also the forts-of Ban dora and Verfava, with their villages; as also Ta. na, about which are five small forts garrisoned, and furnished with cannon. The jesuits are possessed of best part of the island, having almost all the point that looks towards the east; and it is reported for a certain truth, that they have more revenues in India than the king of Portus gal tuesday the seth, as soon as ever day began to appear, Gemelli set out, and coming to Coromandel and seeing a Moorilh boat just setting out, he made signs to them to return and take him in at first they refused, but he presenting his gun, and threatning to shoot them, they at last complied, and that night landed him at Bazaim. Saturday the igth, the convoy being ready to sail for Goa, Luna d'Acuna, the captain of a vessel of war, very civilly offered him a passage on board his ship.,END Of the SIXTH Volume.

! , . ', . ' ' " :i . . - . : - - - # . O-&TEs,W-Lhe 4 Boffins . - . by OCE-AN,| *> ,ccrdayito o; 4 BAYpricon > In . .c . .f ii . iMerc caturs t B r1 .-(>C 5 '.sS^^^- ' % . W Not h Cape ',0 *<, . A ^;E- - ~ " - .-" ' - - slip-;~~ ~ ~ tree th c Ci relent C T H.'t hae a / , Est , d i a ! T topic ct-~-rpric :r - : :Cancer ^ - , ,:, J^-i:l " iee A a.; - ', . . . . . I - '- . . . .- y>,e-^ Â· ' ::'3'- L^7/ C,,t n,~qe -s " .* 1:',> TrOp TH:. cE oi AU H N CE A,0 P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ * ' 6 0RI t nri ryi '*/ I ll hill Im lus ill ' i M j Cape Jn~L aO M tI:l,1? i duke clutches P~~CIE~~~C OCE~~~L~~2~~ ~~~E~ac~~~oi ~~'paoles Peri~~~~~~a".~~~~~~~~~~~" ~'^-r rJ.l/) Â«J^^^
A C O M P E N D I U Mos AUTHENTIC and Entertaining YA G ES,,Digested in a Chronological Series.,The whole exhibiting . A clear View of the CUSTOMS, MANNER'S, RELIGION, GOVERNMENT, COMMERCE, and NATURAL HISTORY of most Nations,in the KNOWN WORLD Illustrated and adorned with variety genuine Charts/y,Maps, Plans, Heads, &c curious engraved the SECOND Editions O L. VII. LONDON: Printed for W ST.RAHAN ; J. Livingston; W. jOHNSrON;s J.DODSLEY; T.CAsLON; T.LOWNDES;; W. Niccolo; RICHARDSON and Urquhart Tr,JEF.PRIES ; and L COLLINS at Salilbuy.,MDCCLXXVIL,*
A Collections V 0 Y A G E S. CONTINUATION of the Voyages Dr. JOHN FRANCIS GEMELLI.,CHAP. XV. The author's voyage to Gsa, with a deception of that,city and its channel; and an account of the extent of the Portugueie.dominions in India. .M X 0O N D A Y the 21 f the fleet sailed anchor before day: it consisted of thirty six parangas, two galliots, which were admiral and vice-admiral, and four man chucks of war. These manchucas had a large main sail, twelve-oars, and four small guns, with fifteen Portuguese soldiers. The wind not being fair, they made but little way. Tuesday the 22d, they an scored opposite to the city and fortress of Chaul, which is seated on a plain six miles from the sea, on the bank of a river, which at flood will carry vol. VII. B any
any vessels up to the city. A sort called El Morro secures the entrance of the harbour, built by the Portuguese in the year 1520. Jaffa, then governor of Diu, sent fifty sail to obstruct the building of the fort: the fleets had several engagements, but always with loTs to the Turks,, so that at last they went back disabled wednesday the 23d it was late before they sailed, waiting for some vessels of Chaul, and the wind failing, they made but little way. The. calm con tinged Thursday 24th,- and they were obliged to lie close by the coast of Savagi, who is a mortal enemy to the Portuguese. This Savagi, whom his subjects call raja, that is, petty king, is 'o power ful that he maintains war at one and the same time, with the great Mogul and the Portuguese: all the coast from Chaul to Goa, for the space of two hun died and fifty miles, belongs to him. This prince's dominion is but of a late date, for it began with Sa vagi, grandfather of the present king. Savagi first raised his fortune by serving under the king of Golconda then having gathered great wealth with the outlaws that resorted to him, he first seized some places that'belonged to the king of Vifapor, and fortifying themselves in them among the mountains, he at length gathered a mighty army, with which making war on the Mogul, the Portuguese, and other princes his neighbours, he usurped all he now stands possessed of. His fubjeas are robbers both by sea and land, that being the pay he al lows them; which makes it dangerous sailing along that coast, so that it is not to be done without a good convoy voyages in these seas are likewise hazardous on account of the Malabars, who are pyrates of several nations, as Moors, Gentiles, Jews, and Christians, and fall upon all they meet, with a great number of boats full of men. They live under several mo-monarchs,
monarchs, of which the most powerful is the emperor Tamori, and the kings of Manor, Porch, and others. These people take poor passengers, and lest they should have swallowed their gold, give them a potion, which makes them digest all they have in their bodies; which done, they search the drinking excrements to find the precious metal about sun-set, the north-west wind freshened and brought them in sight of Kabul. This city is seated six miles from the sea, and eight miles from Chaul, both in the kingdom of Decan. The Portuguese took it in the year 50o8. But at pre sent, it is subjea to Savagi. Friday the 25th, they came in sight of the sort of Vifapore, then they passed by Lambent, and the sort of Malian. The wind freshening all night, on Saturday the 26th, at break of day, they came to an anchor in their port, having sailed two hundred and eighty miles from Chaul. The customhouse boats com ing down the channel to visit them, overlooked Gemelli's baggages as it was directed for the superiors the monastery at Goa. Being come to the city, he was courteously entertained by the laid governor.,Goa is seated in the latitude of fifteen degrees twenty minutes, in an island nine leagues about, in the river Mendoza, which falls into the sea sic miles below; it is under the torrid zone, which the antients thought uninhabitable, by reason of the excessive heat of the fun, but providence has qualified it with continual rains, which fall plentifully from June till Otober; besides the skies are darkened whole weeks, with the thick clouds. When the rains cease at fun-ring, the heat is in tolerable alfonso de Albuquerque took Goa from Hidal- kan, without bloodshed, in the year I508. Hidal- kan afterwards re-took the city, but Albuquerque,' 2 recovered
recovered it again in Into, with the slaughter of seven thousand barbarians, and built a sort there. Then, considering the goodness of the country, and commodious situation of the place, he constituted it the metropolis of the Portuguese empire in India. To establish his mailer Emanuel, in the possession, by gaining the love of the fubjeas, he moderated the tribute they payed to Hidalkan; and to breed up soldiers for the wars, he contrived that the Indian maids (hould be baptized and mar cried to the Portuguese, that the Indians might be united to this nation by affinity, and consequently engaged to protect it. Goa, the center of all the Portuguese conquests, grew in wealth and renown, being become the key of all the trade of the east, and the chief mart of India. This plainly ap pears by the compass of its walls, which extend fuel twelve miles, with good bastions and redoubts. The houses are the best in India, but at present it does not contain above twenty thousand inhabitants of several nations, habits, and religions. There are the fewest of the Portuguese, who having got employments, leave Portugal and settle there. The Mestizos are the most numerous, and all those born of Portuguese men and Brahman women, have this name; about the fourth part of the people are mulattos, that is, born of whites and blacks the Canaries are as black as Ethiopians, but have long hair and broad faces. Many of them are priests, lawyers, attorneys, scriveners, &c. and very diligent in the service of their masters. Moss of them are the offspring of Brahmans, Banians, and Charades, and these have good clear under finding, being apt to learn all sciences, sharp wit ted, ingenious and ready, and therefore every body endeavours to have some of them for their servants. On the contrary, the Langottis are the very reverses
of the others; all Asia does not afford greater thieves and russians; they go naked, and till the land; fish, row, carry adorns, and follow such mean employments. Were it for the love of God, they led so miserable a life, they would be accounted living saints. They sleep naked day and night on the bare ground ; they feed on a little rice swimming in the. dish, never tasting bread as long as they live, unless they be extremely sick. All this pro ceeds- from their laziness, for whenever they can procure any rice, they work no longer while that lasts. When they are well beaten, they under stand a man's thoughts, and serve readily; but to give them fair words is time lost. Beating is so agreeable to them, that it makes a part of-their anxious delight; for when they marry, the bride and bridegroom after they are a-bed, are so well threshed by their kindred and friends, that they are unfit for any business for some time.,Most of the citizens and merchants of Goa, are idolaters and Mahometanss, who live in a quarter of the town apart, without any publick use of their religion; there are abundance likewise of cafres or blacks, for some Portuguese keep thirty or forty, and the least six or twelve, to carry their umbrella and pandora, and their other mean employments; nor are they at any other charge to keep them, but a-difh of rice at noon, and another at night; for they have no other garments but what they brought out of their mother's wombs. These blacks are supplied by the Portuguese ships from the coast of Afiick, where they are bought for a trifle, being already captive slaves in their own country; nay, some in despair even sell themselves, and many would do this, did not they foolishly conceive, that at Goa they make powder of them. As to their religion, they are idolaters, but are easily induced to embrace the catholic faith, there being no needs 3 of
of many persuasions, for they presently yield, and readily consent to be baptized but those blacks we speak of, have rome of them a noble and genteel disposition. D. Francisco de Tavern, earl of Alvor, being governor of An gold, the son of a neighbouring king came concerto visit him, and understanding that the Portuguese were precise in matters of compliments, and that he ihouid be received standing, as was accordingly done; he took along with him two flares, well in i{ruc'ed what they were to do. Being come into the governor's room, ard seeing no chair brought him, he caused his two slaves to squat down, and sat upon them. The Portuguese admired the caffrc's ingenuity, and immediately ordered chairs to be brought. After the visit, the two slaves flayed in the count's house, and their mailer being told of it by the count's servants, that he might call them away; he answered, he did not use to carry away the chairs he sat on.,As their princes and gentry are endued with ge nervous and noble thoughts, so the commonalty are courageous and cunning, for they, with poor weapons overcome elephants and lions. To kill the first of these, they make a narrow path, along v which, they, by means of several contrivances, drive the beati, and then dexterously wound it with javelins from cff the trees. Others finding the elephant lying on the ground, get upon him and*rfab him with a long dagger, holding fast upon him till he is dead. They kill the lions for sport; for, v.when they see one astray in the woods, one of them advances with two small cudgels in his hand, and clapping one of them into the lion's paw plays with the other; in the mean while, the next black to him, very dexterously takes the beast by the testicles, and then they beat him to death.,To
To return to Goa: its port is compared by Ta vernier to the best in our continent, such as Con flantinople and Toulon; and to say the truth, be sides what nature made it, the Portuguese have taken much pains to complete and fortify it, by means of many castles and towers furnished with. good cannon. Beyond the castles, the channel of the river grows narrower, sometimes to one, some times to two miles; and its banks, set out with the best fruit trees India affords, yield the finest prof pet imaginable. This river that makes so noble a port, runs many miles up the country, dividing it into several fruitful islands and peninsulas.,Adjoining to this port, is that of Murmugon, formed by the other channel that runs between the island of Goa and peninsula of Salfette. These two channels, which meet at St. Laurence, make the length from east to west of the island of Goa, which is twenty seven miles in compass, and con pains thirty villages. Entering the port on the right hand, is the peninsula of Salfette, which is sixty miles about and twenty in length, con gaining fifty thousand souls, in thirty villages, where the jesuits administer the sacraments: on the left, is the other peninsula of Bardes; it is fifteen miles long, and about forty-five in compass, with twenty eight villages, governed in spirituals by the clergy the cathedral of Goa is a fine structure for India: it is very large, arched, divided into isles. by twelve columns, and all curiously adorned with, figures; as are chapels. The archbishop's seat is in the chair, raised a great heighth above the' ground. The palace is magnificent and spacious,, with various galleries and noble apartments; but the archbishop, for the conveniency of the cool air,, lives by the side of the channel near the powder houses 4 Hereof
many persuasions, for they presently yield, and readily consent to be baptized but those blacks we speak of, have some of them a noble and genteel disposition. D. Francisco de Tavern, earl of Alvor, being governor of An gold, the son of a neighbouring king came once-to first him, and understanding that the Portuguese were precise in matters of compliments, and that he should be received standing, as was accordingly done; he took along with him two slaves, well in trusted what they were to do. Being come into the governor's room, and seeing no chair brought him, he caused his two slaves to squat down, and sat upon them. The Portuguese admired the care's ingenuity, and immediately ordered chairs to be brought. After the visit, the two slaves stayed in the count's house, and their master being told of it by the count's servants, that he might call them away ; he answered, he did not use to carry away the chairs he sat on.,As their princes and gentry are endued with ge nervous and noble thoughts, so the commonalty are courageous and cunning, for they, with poor weapons overcome elephants and lions. To kill the sift of these, they make a narrow path, along w which, they, by means of several contrivances, drive ie bear, and then dexterously wound it with javelins from off the trees. Others finding the elephant ivin, on the ground, get upon him andaman him w ih a long dagger, holding fast upon him till he is dead. They kill the lions for sport; for, when they see one astray in the woods, one of them advances with two small cudgels in his hand, and clapping one of them into the lion's paw plays with the other; in the mean while, the next black to him, very dexterously takes the beast by the testicles, and then they beat him to death.,To
To return to Goa: its port is compared by Ta vernier to the best in our continent, such as Constantinople and Toulon; and to say the truth, be sides-what nature made it, the Portuguese have taken much pains to complete and fortify it, by means of many castles and towers furnished with good cannon. Beyond the castles, the channel of the river grows narrower, sometimes to one, some times to two miles; and its banks, set out with the best fruit trees India affords, yield the finest prof pet imaginable. This river that makes so noble a port, runs many miles up the country, dividing it into several fruitful islands and peninsulas.,Adjoining to this port, is that of Murmugon, formed by the other channel that runs between the sand of Goa and peninsula of Salfette. These two channels, which meet at St. Laurence, make the length from east to west of the island of Goa, which is twenty seven miles in compassed con pains thirty villages. Entering the port on the right hand, is the peninsula of Salfette, which is sixty miles about and twenty in length, con gaining fifty thousand souls, in thirty villages, where the jesuits administer the sacraments: on the left, is the other peninsula of Bardes; it is fifteen miles long, and about forty-five in compass, with twenty eight villages, governed in spirituals by the clergy the cathedral of Goa is a fine future for India: it is very large, arched, divided into isles. by twelve columns, and all curiously adorned with, figures; as are chapels. The archbishop's seat is in the chair, raised a great heighth above the ground. The palace is magnificent and spacious,, with various galleries and noble apartments; but. the archbishop, for the conveniency of the cool air,, lives by the side of the channel near the powder houses 4 * Here:
Here are four monasteries, namely that of the Reckless, with a small and beautiful church, and fine gardens; next that of St. Dominick, the church of which has three isles, made by six co lumps on a side. The arches are gilt, especially that of the choir, where gold glitters in every part. The monastery of St. Augustine is seated on a high ground that commands the city. A large ascent of steps leads up to the front of the church, where there are two high steeples, with great bells. Near this monastery is the college for no vices, with a decent church and dwellings. The monastery-of the Treating is but small, yet has a very fine garden; and the church is built after the model of St. Andrew della velle in Rome. The jesuits college, called St. Rock, has a small church with six little chapels; but the house is large, and capable of seventy fathers. - St. Monica, of the Augustinian nuns, is an arched church with three gilt altars-St. Paul is a church of the je suits, and the first they founded in India; whence they took the name of Pauliflas. In the garden there are two aqua and some mango trees, planted by order of St. Francis Xaverius. There is also a chapel built in memory of the extasy or rapture the saint had in that place, where the catechumens are intruded; for whose sustenance the king al lows four hundred pieces of eight a year. In In dia, all Christians wear their beads about their necks like religious men. The jesuits, instead of a priest's cap, wear a long round one broad at the top.,On the bank of the channel are the monasteries and churches of St. Thomas of the Dominicans, and St. Bonaventure of the observants of St. Fran ti. The hospital of Goa is small and ill governed; though the king allows it four hundred pieces of eight a year. For his reason, and through the pes-pestilential
essential air of the country, there die thousands of sick persons in it, and particularly of wretched Portuguese soldiers. It is to be observed all the monasteries at Goa and throughout all the-port guess dominions in India, have some allowance from the king, more or less, according to the number of religious the first of the Portuguese who ever failed in India, was Vasco de Gama, a gentleman whose statue is over one of the gates of Goa. Gama had the title of general or admiral of four ships,. three whereof were well fitted for war, and the fourth loaded with provisions; and being fur wished with all neceflariesfor so long a voyage, he sailed from Lisbon on the 9th July, 1497; a season, as was afterwards found by experience, most improper to go to India. At the cape of Good Hope, he not only met with a severe form, but his sailors, daunted with the dangers, and fearing greater if they went farther, conspired together to throw him overboard, and return home. Gama having intelligence of it, clapt the chief of the conspirators into irons, and setting down himself at the helm, played-both the parts of the captain and pilot, till he had weathered the Cape. Then steering north-east, still coasting along Africa, this eastern Columbus came at lass to the island of Mozambique, and then boldly crossing a gulph of two thousand five hundred miles, on the i8th of May, 1498, came to an anchor in a port thirty miles from Calicut, a city in the kingdom of Ma Lb:r, after ten months sail from Lisbon. Having,. by repeated voyages, fettled the ieans'of getting the necessary supplies nut of Europe, the l'ortu- gui-se began to subdue the kingdoms of Decan, Cai.baya, and Guzarate., taking the sorts of Diu, (aambaya, Surat. Dardan, Sapor, Mai-m Ba aim, Tana, Chaul, Kabul, and other places two,B 5 hui!d;ed
hundred miles along the coast. As also the islands of Goa, Salfette, Bardes, Andegiva, and others. Further on towards China, they made themselves masters of the important place of Malaco, of the Molucca Mnands, and the islands of Tenor, build ing the colony of Macao, with the consent of the emperor of China. Their dominion also extend ed on the coast of Africa, over Angola, and Mo fambique. This last is an sand three miles in compass, and a mile in length, where the jesuits have only a garden of palm-trees. The fort is seated on the mouth of the channel; the castle has four good bastions, with seventy-four choice pieces of cannon. The merchandize brought to this port by the ships of the company, are bought at a set price by the royal factory, which afterwards sends them to Chilimani, the mouth of the river Senna. From Chilimani, the goods are sent up the river against the stream in little boats. Cafres resort to this port from ,provinces and kingdoms, three or four months journey distant, to buy or take up goods upon trust for so much gold, which they never fail to bring punctually the next year, unless de-th prevent them. This trade yields above cent. per cent. so that the Portuguese may be said to have another India in Africa.,Senna is a little town on the right hand of the river, inhabited by thirty Portuguese families, who make it populous enough by the great number of blacks they keep. On the same coast, fifteen days journey from Mozambique, they have the port of Zofala; and in Arabia Felix, they once had the important place of Mafcatte, and its dependance. The kingdom of Ormuz, and several sands in the Persian gulph, and the city of Afford, which still pays five thousand five hundred crowns and a horse yearly tribute to the king of Portugal, but when,their
their fleet does not appear powerful in the gulph, the Mahometanssss refuse to pay ,T-hey also made themselves mailers of the king. dom of Canara, of the sorts of Nor, Brazalor, and Cambilin; and in the island. of Ceylon, three: of the seven provinces were brought under their. dominion; and this by the last will of Acola, who was sovereign thereof. They likewise sub duet the city and Tort of Negapalan in the king dom of Mature, Tambulin in the kingdom of Bengal, and Macassar in the kingdom of that name. So that being formidable to all the princes. of Asia, they had made all the country about tri butary, and being sovereigns of that vaftocean by means of their mighty fleets, no (hip of any na tion whatsoever could fail those seas without theist leave and pass. These conquests, gained at the ex' pence of many lives, and with the effusion of much blood, scarce lasted an age and a half; for the Dutch falling into the Indian trade, instead of extending their conquests among so many islands; and kingdoms of Mahometanssss and Pagans, 'gnly- robbed the Portuguese .f that they had gained with so many dangers and sufferings another cause of the decay of the Portuguese: power in India, was their conquers of Brazil ;sounding mc;re profit there, they slighted India This is so certain, that the king of Portugal was; several times in the mind absolutely to abandon it., - which had certainly been done, had not the missionaries made him sensible that if he did so, all then Christians of those countries would again fall into. Idolatry and Mahometanssssifm.,If we look upon what remains to the Portuguese present in India, it is very. inconsiderable, and instead of being profitable, scarce pays its own charge. Those that envy their honour, ascribe: their losses to their want of zeal for religion, an4d,B, . 6. fil
their not persisting long in the propagation of it; but the chief cause of their ruin was their having made so many conquests so far divided from one another; and next the war at home, which ob ftruaed the relieving of India.,All that remains under the Portuguese dominion from the Cape of Good Hope, to Macao in China, is governed by a vice-roy, with the title of captain general, who resides at Goa, as the metropolis of India. There are six or eight difembargadores, or judges, that attend the government as a sovereign court or council. They wear gorilla, and huge periwigs, after the French fashion. They administer justice in civil and criminal cases, hav ing power over all ministers, and an ultimate de termination of all appeals brought from any parts of the dominions. The vice-roy sits as chief of this court under a canopy the inquisition is much respect and dreaded by the Christians at Goa, and about it, as is the archbiffi p or primate. And not only the vice-roy, with all the officers civil and military, but church men, have sufficient allowance from the king to maintain them handsomely; the vice-roy's fa lady is ten thousand pieces of eight, the archbishop has four hundred thousand, the officers of the inquisition, canons, monasteries, and parishes, a competency; but all the tythes belong to the king.,In the neighbourhood of Goa, are found all the several sorts of fruits growing on the whole coast of Indian, therefore, before we leave that city, we shall give a short account of the most re mark-able. To begin then with the coco-tree, as that which is most beneficial to man. This tree is supposed to be able to fit out and load a flip for sea, without borrowing any thing elsewhere; of the leaves are made the sails, of the wood the vef-,5 fel;
fel; the fruit yields meat and drink, and a good commodity; besides its outward care or rind is spun to make all necessary cordage for a vessel. The shell, which is hard, makes dishes to drink chocolate and for other uses; within it, is a white pulp or nut, flicking round the shell about half an inch thick, which tastes like an almond; in the midst of it is a clear water, very wholsome to drink. Of this same fruit they make several sorts of (weet-meats, and an oil, both to burn and eat for want of olives. Thus the coco-trees yield the best revenue in India, because the country does not produce much rice, cotton, or corn. They grow straight to sixty spans heighth, of an equal thickness from the bottom to the top.,The palm or date-tree in India, bears no fruit, but they draw two kinds of juice from them, which they call mira and sura; one kind called de francolin, bears three small nuts in a triangle, the pulp whereof pressed, yields a cold white wa ter. This tree grows as high as the coco, but is thicker of leaves which grow like a broom. The monkey coco-tree, has boughs like large discipline Of the fruit they make curious beads, hav ing a natural work upon them, than which nothing more curious could be made by art. The are queira or areca-tree, is like the palm, but slenderer and not so high; it bears a sort of fruit ne cellar for chewing with the belle, and it is ga there four or five times a year. The figura or fig-tree, is a plant as soft as a bulrush, as thick as a man's thigh, and between fifteen and twenty spans high-with leaves above a quarter broad, which the Indians use for dishes, and have new ones every meal. It bears fruit but once, for when it has pro duce sixty, seventy, and sometimes a hundred figs on a branch, they cut down the plant, and a young sprout grows out again; there are two forts,of
of them, which ripen at any time of the year; the first about a span long, and about the thickness of an eg'r, are called roasting figs. The other sort are called garden-figs, which are not so large as the other, but are very sweet and eaten raw. The manger or mango-tree, is as high as a good pear tree, but has larger and softer leaves; the mango it bears is weighty and flat, and hangs downward bv a long stalk; without they are green, and the pulp within the shell is white and yellow. There are several sorts of them, and variously tasted. The parabola-tree is as big as a plum-tree, and bears such a leaf. The fruit when ripe, is white within and yellow without, shaped like a lemon, and in taste much the same ; they preserve them because they are cooling. The anna-tree is very large, and produces fruit in March and April', which are as big as a pear, red and yellow with out, whitish within, and full of a soft pleasant sub stance which is eaten with a spoon. The data-tree is as big as an apple-tree. but with small leaves; the fruit is like that of the pine-tree, green with out, and within white End soft, fu that it is eaten with a spoon. The caps-tree is not very tall, but thick of boughs and leaves; the fruit is singular in this from all others. as having its stone not in the middle, but upon the top, raised like a green crew ; smelling to which, the Portuguese missionaries afirnm very much helps the memory. Cutting it in quarters, sleeping it in cold water, and then chewing it, there comes from it a cool juice good fur all obstructions in the breast. The iumbolon-tree grows wild, and has the leaves ike a lemon-tree; but the fruit is so de vicious that an Indian woman coming to Lisbon L bathed ail the rest fruit in Europe, remembering her beloved jambolon. They hang on the boughs like cherries or olives, and have the red,colour
colour like the one, and the shape and stone like the other. The angola-tree, is very large, all prickly, and with small leaves; the fruit is of the shape of a walnut, and of a sourish and bitterifih taste, like a medlar. The brandon-tree is as tall as a pear-tree, but has smaller leaves, the fruit re females golden pippins, but the rind is harder. The canada-tree is low-and thorny, with leaves like an orange tree; the fruit is no other than the wild grapes of Indoftan. The aqua-tree is as big as a laurel, with green and yellow leaves. The fruit it produces, is the biggest in the world, for no man can carry above one of them; and some of them are four spans long, and a span and a half diameter. It being impossible for the boughs to bear such a weight, nature has providentially ordered it should grow out at the foot of the tree. The rind is yellow and green, but prickly, and with some stiff points like those about the collars of mastiffs. Within it, are-many yellow separations like those in an orange, with each of them a kernel in it like an acorn; which roasted, tastes like a chesnut. The cinnamon-tree, tho' it bears no fruit, is precious for its bark, which being taken off, grows on the tree again, to yield the owner more profit. - The amcale-tree is as.big as a pear-tree; the fruit grows out of the thick part of the branches, its (have is like a golden pippin, with freaks like a lemon on the outside. The anna is a plant like our house-leek, bearing a fruit round and prickly, a span long, and above a span diameter; rising like a very great artichoke. It is sometimes gathered before it is ripe, and made very sweet with sugar and so Cent into Europe. It is wholesome but so hot, that if a knife be left slicking in it a day, it loses its temper, and is spoiled. The mogareira is a plant, which, from February to the end of May) bears a most beautiful white flower, with a,-smell,6
smell much more fragrant than that of jessamine. Several plants of it have been sent to Lisbon in earthen pots for some Portuguese lords, and it very well deserves to be in any royal garden, upon ac count of the great beauty of its flower. The afar freira is bigger than a plum-tree, and produces saffron; in this tree the flowers come out in the night, and almost all the year round. The pi menteira is but a low plant, which grows against any tree or wall, and bears the pepper in clusters like grapes; when ripe it is red, but the Indians burn and make it black, that it may not serve for seed elsewhere. The beteleira is a tender plant like ivy, which runs up a slick; its leaf is the de light of the Asiatics-for men and women, from the prince of the peasant, delight in nothing more than chewing it all day in company. The Spaniards make a composition of it with areca, and car ry it in curious little boxes to chew it every mo ment abroad and at home. The betel makes the lips so sin, red, and beautiful, that if the Euro pean !zdi s could, they would purchase it for the weight in gold the trees hitherto described, are the best in In d flan, but there are many more not to be despised One called pain, so fait and tail, that it may fence for maRs for (hips. There are also In dia apples, and plenty of tamarinds about the Eeids. " he plant called paoli, produces a fihtiv flower, and a long fruit like a cucumber, and there is a white fruit growing unwler ground like potatoes, but much bigger and weighing many pounds; when boiled, it is better than potatoes. There are many more sorts of fruit besides those here mentioned, as well of the country as brought from Persia and Europe's H AS.
CHAP. XVI. The author's journey to Galgala, were the great Ma-gul was encamped, with an account of the magnificence of that king, and the manners of the Mo gulf/ans-gemelli having resolved, ever since his first setting out, to see the court and camp of the great mogul, without regarding danger or ex pence, in order to it, he hired a bearing tq car ry his provisions for-some days, and utensils for dressing of meat, being sure to find nothing by the way; and as the bearing could not speak the language of the moguls, he likewise hired a boy of Golconda, who, besides his mother tongue, had learned Portuguese. This done, he committed his baggage to F. Hippolyta Visconti, desiring him, du ring his absence, to change his money into pieces of eight, to serve him when he came back in his voyage to China.,Friday the 4th, the interpreter and porter com ing to tell him all was ready,. he set out, leaving his own. servant in the monastery. The pals of Daugi, where he was to take boat for Pondaa, was stopt by order of the archbishop, who governing during the vice-roy's absence, had directed that no person should pass into the infidels country, with out his particular leave; but as soon as Gemelli spoke to him, he gave him a pass under his own hand. Having crossed the channel, they flayed a long while in a cottage belonging to the guards, there being neither man nor beast to be found, to carry the baggage of an Armenian and a Moor who had joined him; at hast seeing night draw on, they forced some gentiles of the village of Ancona, to,carry
carry them ; they passed the night under some coco trees, without sleep, because of the great noise of drums, and cries of the idolaters, who celebrated the feast of Stingo, at the full moon saturday the 5th, before they set out, the Ar menial and Moor fil ed their bellies with cachiari, which is a composition of rice, kidney-beans, and lentils pounded and boiled together; and for want of beasts to carry his luggage to Pondaa, which was twelve miles off, Gemelli took three gentiles, and was forced against his will to make use of a cudgel upon them. The fun was so hot, that at very short distance s they were obliged to rest, and refresh themselves with melons, and fruit of the country; on their road, lay the village of Marco, where there is a famous pagoda. The way into the Court, is over a covered bridge of three arches, up to which, there are two fair-cafes; on the right of this court, is an octangular structure, confiding of seven rounds of small columns with handsome capitals. About the porch, and before the arches of the foresaid bridge, there are several shops, but all is gone to ruin since the mogul has taken that country from the king of Vifapor. The pagoda is at the further end of the court. The first room is like a little hall, longer than it is broad; within it is another room, and further on upon the right, is a little room curiously painted, with several figures, one of which has four hands, two whereof hold a lass, one a looking-glass, and the other rests on its side; there are besides, several mon misers, beans, and birds. Behind the pagoda, is one of the banian-trees, and under it the bath or pool, with large tone-fiefs about, for the idolaters to go down and wash them of their unclean ne!s.,Setting forward from this place, after travelling a hong time over mountains and plains, they came,late
late and very weary to Pondaaaaaaaa. There Gemelli found a small camp of the mogul's forces, and among them Francis de Miranda, who received him very civilly. These troops came that same day from Bichiolin with the divan, or receiver of the king's revenue at Pondaaaaaaaa. Seven hundred horse and foot' flood at their arms before the divan's tent, and two companies of sixteen gentile, each danced con fixedly to the sound of drums, fifes, and trumpets. The divan, who was a grey headed old man about sixty years of age, mounted a horseback, with a pair of kettle drums a horseback before him, another pair of kettle drums on a camel, and a medly or house and foot naked, who went in a disorderly manner like so many goats. The divan being come to a tent erected for that purpose, he alighted, and saluting the king's messenger, who brought him a vest, 'and ,a commission to take possession of the government of the lower sort of Pondaaaaaaaa, he put on the china himself on his head, whilst the messenger held the fash to him. Then the latter took a vest of grey silk with gold stripes, and put it on the divan, and then two safes about his neck, his firmiter hanging by his side. The divan laid his hand on the ground five times, and as often on his head in thanksgiving to the king, who had ho poured him with that present. It was said this honour colt him twenty thousand rupees, or two ,thousand five hundred pound, which he sent to the secretary, who passed the commission, as the grand mogul himself never writes to his fubjecs.,The city of Pondaaaaaaaa is made up of cottages and mud houses, seated in the'midft of many mountains The fort, which is also of earth, has a gar ripon of about four hundred horse and foot, and fe even small pieces of cannon. The country depending. on it, taken from Savagi by the great mogul, is governed by a cuba or general of the field, who,receives
receives the revenue of seven hundred villages, for which he is obliged to maintain a certain num ber of soldiers, so that he drains the poor country people, making a few cottages sometimes pay thou sands of rupees monday the 7th, in the afternoon, Gemelli saw the dismal spectacle of a Pagan woman, who was burned with the de body of her husband, ac cording to their wicked unmerciful custom. She came out well clad, and adorned with jewels, as if The had gone to be married, with musick playing and finding. being-attended by the kindred of both sexes, friends, and brahman priests. Beifig come to the place appointed, The went about un daunted, taking leave of them all; after which, the was laid all along with her head on a block, in a cottage twelve spans square, made of small wood, wet with oil, but bound to a flake that she might not run away with the fright of'the fire. Lying in this posture, chewing belle, she asked of the flan ders by, whether they had any business by her to the other world, and having received several gifts, and letters, from those ignorant people to carry to their dead friends, The wrapped them up in a cloth; this done, the brahman, who had been encouraging her, came out of the hut, and caused it to be fired there being no other conveniency of carriage all the way but on oxen, Gemelli bought a horse at Pondaa for sixty rupees, and having got a pass from the. bachelor, that he might not be flopped by the guards on the frontiers, likewise leaving his gun to be sent back to Goa, that he might not be made prisoner by Savagi's men, he set out on Tuesday the 8th, and travelling eight miles, came to Chi hampton, a village of a few mud houses. Here he caused some meat to be dressed; but his porter go ing to take a'fig leaf to use instead of a dish, after,the
the manner of India, 'the heathen woman to whom the fig-tree belonged, and the rest of the people who came to her assistance, made such a noise that they were forced to depart; from thence they travelled through woods, and afterwards crossing over an arm of the sea in a small boat, they entered the territories of a pagan princes lord of some villages among the mountains, but tributary and subject to the great mogul; at the end of four miles, they lay at the village of Kakore, consisting of a few cottages; at night troops of monkeys came leap ing from one tree to another, and some of them with their young ones To chuse hugged under their belly, that though they threw many stones at them, they could not fetch down one. These monkeys are very greedy of coco-nuts, which has taught the Indians a method of catching them. They make a hole in the shell, into which the monkey runs his paw, and not being able to fetch it out full of the nut, rather than quit the hold, it suffers itself to be taken by those that lie in wait.,On Wednesday the 9th, they set out through thick woods, and travelling eight cosses or sixteen Italian ties, they came to the foot of the mountain of Balagati, where the guards and the custom house officers took twelve rupees for two firings of pearls. Having climbed the mountain for eight miles among dreadful thick woods, the second guard and customhouse took a rupee without ex' mining farther. There being no dwelling to be found, they took up their lodging that night in the thickest part of the wood, after having travelled twelve confession Thursday the Icth, the bojata let out three hours before day, and they went along with it for the more safety. This bojata was a caravan of above three hundred oxen, loaded with provisions for the camp at Galgala. Near their road, ap-spared
feared some wild hens, which at first seemed tante; but fill kept at a great distance. Having travelled fourteen cosses, they came two hours before fun set to the village of Bombnali, where though there was a guard, they took nothing from them. The road they travelled on Friday the i with, was through more open woods, in which there was iron mines; and after having gone eight cosses, they came to the Tillage of Chinaman, where there was a customhouse which searched their luggage. Here the prince of the territory resides in a sort made of earth, encompassed with walls seven spans high-setting out late on Saturday the I2th, after four miles travel, they came into the mogul's territories, and rested till noon near the town of Alcan, but being ready to set forwards, they were informed, the road they were to go was infested with rob boers, therefore they resolved to slay for the bojata. At this place there was a pagoda, and in it an idol, with a human body, but the face of a monkey, and a very long tail winding about the top of its head, with a little bell hanging at the end of it. One hand was on its side, and the other lifted up as it were to strike.,On Sunday the I3th, they set out four hours before day with the caravan of-oxen, and at the end of six losses, came to the little village of Kan kre, then proceeding three long cosses farther, they lay at the village of Etchi; next day setting out early, with another bojata, and after travelling eight noises through a very fertile soil, they lodged at the little villagefofOnor. On Tuesday the i th, they travelled fifteen cosses, through a country full of green and delightful trees, to the city of Manus peer, and after dinner two cosses farther to Betche, a walled town, where they lay.,It is far different travelling through the mogul's country, than through Persia or Turkey, for therefore
are no bears for carriage .to be found, nor cara- vanferas at convenient distances, nor provisions; and, what is worse, there is no safety from thieves. He, therefore, that has not a horse of his own, must mount upon an ox, and at night the clear sky will be all his covering, or else a tree. Add to all this, the great danger from the excursions of Savagi's soldiers, and the Mogulftans themselves, who are such crafty thieves, that they reckon a traveller's money and cloaths their own, and will keep along with him many days, till his security gives them an opportunity to rob him at their ease. 'Sis true, that this of Vifapor, is the worst for travelling of all the kingdoms subjea to the great mogul, as it is continually harassed with wars.,On Wednesday the i6th, they travelled three comes to a village called Kodelci, and three from thence to'Edoar, the biggest city in the whole journey. All the merchants that corne from the southern parts to sell their goods, use to slay here, and afterwards go over to the camp like retailers. When they passed that way, this city was actually inserted with the plague. After dinner, they went five noises farther, to the town of Muddol, seated on the bank of a river, a matter of great consideration on a road where there are no cisterns, and very few springs.,On Thursday the 7th, after riding five copies, they passed through a walled town called Mature, and two cosses farther to the village of Galgala, where the mogul's camp was, and coming into the quarters of the Mahometanss, called Lascars, some Christian soldiers of Agra entertained them. Next day, Gemelli went to the Christian: gunner's quarter to hear mass, and found a convenient chapel of mud walls, served by two Catharine priests. After mass, Francis Borgia, by extraction a Venetian, and captain of the Christians, invited him to hothouse.
house. That same day, the king put the.queftion to the cash or judge of the law, whether it was more for God's service to go fight his enemies, to spread the Mahometan seat, or to go over to Visa por to keep their amazon or lent. The cash re quire time to answer, which pleased the mogul, who was a great dissembler.,On Saturday the seth, Gemelli went to Gulalbar-or the king's quarters, and found the king was then giving audience, but there was such a multitude and confusion, that he could not have a good sight of him. His tents, together with the princes, took up three miles in compass, and were defended every way with palisades, ditches, and five-huns died falconets. There-were three gates into them, one for the aram or women, and two for the king and his court. The forces in his camp were said to amount to sixty thousand horse, and a hundred thousand foot, for whose baggage there were fifty thousand camels, and three thousand elephants but that the sutlers, merchants, and artificers were much more numerous, the whole camp being a moving city, containing four million ol souls, and abounding not only in provisions, bul in all things that could be desired. In short, the whole camp was a moving city, of thirty-fix miles in compass the omrahs or generals are obliged to main tain a certain number of horse and foot at their own expence, but the mogul assigns them the re venues of countries and provinces, while they con title in that post; one of them make a million and a half a year of these fess. But the princes of the blood have the best, some of which are worth a million and a half of rupees a month They are not only obliged to serve in war, but to attend the king at all times; for upon every failure a gars is taken from them, which is three thousand,nine
nine hundred rupees; or less proportionably to their pay. - Though these generals are in so fair a way to heap up wealth, yet they need not; because when they die the exchequer is their heir; and only a bare substance is allowed the wife, and for the children, they say the king will bestow more riches on them, than he did on their father, when ever their faithful services shall deserve it.,These omrahs command each his own troops, without being Subordinate to another, only obey ing a lieutenant of the king when he is absent. Many Frenchmen belonging to the army, feed it was a diversion to serve the mogul, because they that will not fight, or do not keep their guards, are,only punished by losing that day's pay, that they are convinced of having transgressed. On the other side, there being no prince in the world that pays his soldiers better, a stranger that goes into his service soon turns rich, but once in it, is very difficult to get a discharge any other way than by making an escape. They are supplied with horses for the army from Persia and Arabia, at a thou sand or five hundred rupees each; and as no bar ley grows in Hindostan, they give them four pounds of boiled gentiles a day,. and in winter they add half a pound of butter, and four ounces of pep per. The expence of maintaining so many elephants is very great, for every one of them eats at least a hundred and forty pounds of corn every day, besides leaves, green canes, sugar and pepper; so that the king allows seven rupees a day for each one.,On Sunday the 20th, there were about two thou sand soldiers, horse and foot,' drawn up at the tent of Salam, the king's eldest son, waiting to attend him to his father's quarters. The son came out and mounted on horseback to go to pay his refpes&,,VOL. VII. C air
and as loon as he saw his father-he alighted. He was about sixty-five years of age, tall, and full bodied, with a thick long beard, which began to-be grey.,Qn Monday the 2 if, by means of a Christian of' Agra, Gemelli had the fortune to be admitted to a private audience of the king. In the first court of the king's quarters in a large tent, were many kettle drums, trumpets, and other musical instruments, there was also a gold ball betwixt two gilt hands, hanging by a chain, which is the imperial ensign : and whether march, it is mounted on an elephant. He past on into the second court, and then into the royal tents, where finding the king seated after the country manner, on rich carpets and pillars embroidered with gold, he made his obeisance after the mogul fashion, and drew near, the same Christian being interpreter. He asked him of what kingdom of Europe he was, how long he had been from thence, where he had been, and what he came to his camp for, whether he would serve him, and whither he designed to go. Gemelli answered his questions, but told him affairs of the greatest importance called him home after he should see the kingdom of China. He was then dismissed, the time of the public audience drawing near. The tent for this purpose was supported by two great poles, the outside covering being ordinary red fluff, but within, were small taffeta curtains: at one end, was a square place raised four spans above the ground, enclosed with silver bannisters two spans high, and covered with fine carpets; in the middle of this platform, was another place raised a span higher, at the angles. whereof were four poles, covered with silver, reaching to the top of the tent. Here flood the throne, which was also squire, of gilt wood, three spans above the rest to get up to it, there was a little silver,footstool.
footstool. The king soon appeared leaning on a staff forked at the top; several omrahs and cour tiers going before hin. He was of a low stature, with a large nose, slender, and stooping with age. The whiteness of his round beard was more vi bible on his olive-coloured skin. The people that had business drawing near, two secretaries (land ing took their petitions, which they delivered to the king, telling him the contents. The king endorsed them with his own hands without spectacles; and by his chearful failing countenance, seemed to be pleased with the employment.,In the mean while, the elephants were reviewed, that the king might see what condition they were in. When the rider had uncovered the elephant's crupper, for the-king to view it, he made him turn his head towards the throne, and make his sub mission three times by lifting up and lowering down his trunk. Then came Salam's son and grandson, who having twice made their obeisance, fate downs on the first floor of the throne on the left. Those that were not of the blood royal, made three obei- fances.,On the right hand without the tent, flood a hun died musketeers, and as many mace-bearers, who had clubs on their shoulders, with silver globes at the ends. On the left of the tent were the royal ensigns held upon spears by nine persons, clad in veris of crimson velvet, all adorned with gold, with wide sleeves, and (harp collars hanging dowtl behind. Without the enclosure of the royal tent, several companies and troops of horse and foot flood at their arms, and elephants with vast flan dards, and kettle drums on them, which were beaten all the time. When the audience was over, the king withdrew in the same manner he came out, so did the princes, some getting into palankines,,C . and
and others'mounting stately horses covered with geld.,It is well known that the succession to this great monarchy rather depends on force than right, but this mogul we have spoken of, added fraud to force, by which he destroyed not only his brothers, but his father. Scia-Gehan, after he was seventy years of age, forty of which he had reigned, be came desperately in love with a Moorish young woman. His unruly passion prevailing, he gave himself up so entirely to her, that being reduced to extream weakness, he shut himfelf.for three months in the aram, without once shewing himself to the people. He had four sons and two daughters: the eldest of his sons was called Dara,-the second S.giah, the third Aureng-Zeb, and the last Mo rad Bakfee. Scia-Gehan seeing his' ons married, grown powerful, aspiring to the crown, and con sequently enemies to one another; after much thinking, for fear they should kill one another be fore his face, he resolved to remove them from court. He sent Sugiah into the-kingdom of Ben. gal, Aureng-Zeb into that of Decan, Moran Bake see into Gufarette, and to Dara he gave Cabal and Multan. The three first went away and acted like sultans in their governments, keeping to themselves all the revenues, and maintaining armies under co lour of awing the subjects. Dara being the eldest, and designed for empire, remained at court, and his father even permitted all orders to pass through his hands. Upon Scia-Geham's shutting himself up, a report prevailed that he was dead: the sons upon hearing this, immediately armed to contend for their father's kingdom. Aureng-Zeb, whilst things were in this confusion, dissembled his ambition, and professed to renounce all worldly concerns, and become a fachir or mendicant to serve Godin peace. At the same time he wrote to his brother Morad,, that
that as he was'remarkable for valour, and his other two brothers had forsaken the religion of their-ans castors, Dara being an idolater, and Sugiah a he relic, he advised him to assume the throne, and promised him all his assistance, provided he would give him his word, that when he came to the king dom, he would leave him in peace to pray to God all the rest of his days. In token of-his affection,; be sent him one hundred thousand rupees, advising him to come with all expedition to make himself master of Surat, where the treasure was. Morad, trifling to the professions of Aureng-Zeb, willingly accepted of his assistance, as he was neither very powerful nor rich himself. Dara attending his fa ther in his illness, forbore to oppose them at first, and contented himself with having driven back Sujah, the other pretender to Bengal. On the other side, Aureng-Zeb brought over one of the generals of Scia-Gehan, who was besieging Ka liana, to favour his party; and Morad Bakfee in the mean time having taken Surat, the two armies joined with much satisfaction, and marched directly see Agra. Dara, alarmed at this and seeing the great danger that threatened him, marched out with. the forces that continued faithful to the mogul, to oppose their passing the river Agent; in the first en engagement eight thousand of his forces, and three of his generals were slain; Aureng-Zeb and Morad,. flushed with this success, encouraged their men to a second action, and gave out that they had thirty thousand moguls of their party among Dara's for ces. Accordingly they sought a second battle at Samongher, where, after an obstinate dispute, the: viaory at last was decided in favour of Aureng- Zeb, by the treachery of one of Dara's commanders who deserted him in the time of the action with thirty thousand men, after having advised hin to come down from his elephant, which. making 3 hi,
his soldiers believe that he was dead, occasioned their final defeat. Four days after, Aureng-Zeb and Morad came to a garden, a small league from Agra, and thence sent an ingenious and truly eu much to pay their respects to Scia-Gehan, and to tell him they were very much troubled at all that had happened, being compelled to it by Dara's ambition, but were most ready to obey his com hands. Sci Gehan, though he well knew how eager his son was to reign, thought proper to dissemble and invited Aureng Zeb to a visit, want ing to entrap him without coming to open force; but he, thoroughly (killed in all frauds, took his fa ther in the same heare; for, putting off the visit from day to day, he spent the time in gaining the affections of the omrahs underhand, and when he thought things were ripe, he sent his son to the fort on pretence to speak with Scia-Gehan, who no sooner entered, but he attacked the guard, made himself master of the walls, and sent the keys of the fort to his father. 'Aureng-Zeb pre gently shut up the old king with his daughter and, all the women; and all the omrahs declaring for him, he took what he thought fit out of the king's treasure, and marched against Dara. On their march, his brother Morad at an entertainment get ting drunk with wine, he upbraided him as unfit for being a king, and ordered him to be imprisoned in a wooden house set on an elephant, and so conveyed to Delhi, to the little fort seated in the middle of the river. Having thus secured Mlorad, he pursued Dara, leaving his son to destroy Sujah. But Maimed aspiring at those things he ought not vet to have aimed at, fell under the suspicion of his father, who caused him to be arrested upon the river Ganges, and sent close shut up to Gaveloer; after having done this, he sent to warn his other son to continue in his duty. Then going,to
toDehli he began to at as king, and while his ge neral pressed Sujah, he contrived to get Dara in his power by fraud. Who, whelp he was come to the gate of the city, basset scurvily clad, with. his wife and son, on a pitiful elephant, and so carried through the streets; and afterwards killed. Likewise perceiving there were poems handed about' in commendation of Morad Bakfee's valour, it raised such a jealousy in him, that he caused him to be put to death. There now only remained sultan Sujah, who, though he held out some time in Bengal, yet was at last forced to submit to his brother's power and good fortune, his army being entirely routed, and he himself obliged to fly, some say to Persia, others elsewhere, so that Aureng-Zeb said in jest, Sujah was turned pilgrim the unnatural war being thus at an end, after it had lasted five years, Aureng-Zeb was never theseus opposed by the steadiness of the grand cadi, who was to put him in possession, but objected, according to the law of Mahomet and of nature, no man could be declared king whilst his father was yet living, much less Aureng-Zeb, who had put to death his elder brother Dara. To over come this difficulty, he assembled the doors of the law, and told them that his father, by reason of age, was unfit to rule; and to these reasons he made the Mahometan casuists agree, that he de served the crown, and ought to be declared king. But the cadi still opposing him, he was deposed, and another put in his place, who, for the kind ness received, consented to all that was required of him. Aureng-Zeb accordingly coming to the bosch on the 20th of October 1660, seated him seif on the richest throne that ever was in the world, being the same that was begun by Tamer lane, and finished by Scia-Gehan, receiving there the homage of all the great men.,C 4 But
But reflecting afterwards on the heinousness of the crimes he had committed for the compassing of his ends, he voluntarily imposed upon himself a ri-porous abstinence, not to eat for the future any wheaten bread, fish, or flesh, and to live upon barley-bread, rice, herbs, sweet-meats, and such things, nor to drink any sort of liquor but wa ter ambassadors from the chief princes of Asia and Africa came to congratulate his accession to the crown; but the king of Persia sent him a let ter, upbraiding him with the murder of Dara, and imprisonment of Scia-Gehan; and reflecting upon him for the title he had assumed of ahem fire, that is, lord of the world, concluded his letter with there words, " Since you are ahem guide, I send ': you a sword and horses that we may meet.",These are the methods of securing the throne of Indoftan, not found out by any ill custom of that people, but proceeding from the want of good laws concerning the title of birth-right; therefore every prince of the blood thinks he has a sufficient claim to the crown, and exposing himself to the cruel necessity of overcoming to reign, sometimes involves an infinite number of lives in his own ruin, that another may be the more securely established the vats empire of the mogul, which in the In tian language signifies white, contains all the country between the rivers Indus and Ganges. It borders on the east with the kingdoms of Aracan, Ti pa, and Assen; on the west with Persia, and the Beck Tartars; on the south of it is the great In tian ocean, and some countries held by the Portuguese and other petty kings; and on the north it reaches to mount Caucasus and the country of Za- gotay. The first that laid the foundation of this mighty monarchy was Tamerlane, otherwise Tey- mur, who, by his wonderful conquests from India,to
to Poland, far surpassed the renown of all former commanders. - He had one leg shorter than the. other,. and was therefore called the Lame ;. he was not of mean extraction, as some imagine,, but off the race of Scia-Quis-Cham, king of Tartary ;. and born at Samarcand, a country of. Zagotay,. or of, the Ubfeck Tartars, where he was afterwards bu cried. After a succession of nine princes of the: same blood,. the throne was now filled by Aureng- Zeb, who added to: the empire the kingdoms of' Vifapor and Golconda, part of the territory of Sa vagi, and other petty principalities of Indoftan.,Aureng-Zeb laboured to. gain. the reputation oft being a strict observer of the Mahometan law, and a lover of justice. He had so distributed his time that he could scarce ever be said to be idle: some days in the week he bathed before break of day ;. then having prayed) he ate something;: after that,, having spent two hours with his secretaries, he gave public audience before noon, and thenprayedr again: this done he dined,, and then gave audience again, when followed the. third or fourth time of praying. Next, he was employed in the affairs; of his family till two hours after it. was dark; then he supped, and slept only. two hours, after which he took. the alcoran and read it.till break of, day. This might serve for an example to many princes in Europe, who, giving. themselves up to. sloth and voluptuousness, neglet.the duties of their; charge,, and are only remarkable for intemperance.: and wickedness after Aureng-Zeb had. prescribed' himself this sort of life, he ceased to be bloody as before, and; on the contrary, became so milder that the omrahs and governors did not pay him the duty they owed,. knowing his mercy would never sussex him to pu nisi them. A government far different from. that' of. Turkey,. where the. fain of difobedienceAis wash-,C 5. edged
away with blood. Even in his youth he did not give himself up to sensual pleasures, as his pre dectifors had done, though, according to their bar barons custom, kept several hundred women in the aram for ostentation. Besides his abstinence, as ter so many horrid crimes committed, his table was no: maintained out of the revenues of the crown: ie said, That food was not good which comb the sweat of h:s fubjeAs, but that every man ought to work for his living. For this reason he wrought caps, and presented them to the governors of his kingdoms and provinces, who, in return for the honour done them, sent him a present of several thousand rupees the great mogul's usual place of residence is at Agra, and sometimes at Delhi and Labor, in which cities the king is always guarded by an omrah, with a body of twenty thousand horse, who en camp about these cities; and this guard is relieved e.erv eight days. But Aureng-Zeb dreading the attrition of his sons, had for these fifteen years continued in the field, and encamped at different places. V 'hen he moves, a tent is carried before,,oty one hundred and twenty elephants, fourteen '.i!n-red camels, and four hundred small carts, to be erected where he is to go. Eight other elf runs carried eight chairs, more like biers wrought v.'ib told and filler, or gilt wood, and closed with cryial i there were three others carried by eight r.:ei each, in one of which the king went when he ici not chuse to mount an elephant.,Aurenz-Zeb had several children; the elderly narmd M2Iahmud, aspiring to the crown before his f;hecr's death, was apprehended and poisoned. The sc-.!:d. Scia!am, entertaining the same thoughts-as c refine' six years in a dark prison though sixty years of age, and had been set at liberty only a few days before Gemelli came to the camp. Azam-,Scjai
Sci, the third son, likewise plotting against his father, was taken, and lost his kingdom: he was then about fifty-five years of age. His fourth son is called Akbar, more ambitious than all the rest; for being sent by his father in the year .680, with an army of thirty thousand pen, to make war on the Regia Fonte, he joined his forces with those of Regia against Aureng-Zeb, but being defeated, he fled into Persia, where he was nobly received by Scia-Selemon, and had an allowance to main tain him suitable to his quality. His youngest son Slander, about thirty years of age, is infected like the rest with the contagious distemper of am ambition; therefore the old king keeps always at the head of. the powerful army, to defend himself against his sons the great Mogul is so absolute, that his will in all things is a law, and the last decision of all causes, both civil and criminal: he makes a tyran nicol use of this absolute power; for being lord of all the land, the princes themselves have no certain place of abode, the king altering it at plea sure; and the same with the poor peasants, who have sometimes the land they have cultivated taken from them, and that which is untilled given them in lieu of it; besides that they are obliged every. year to give to the king three fourths of the crop. For the better management of public affairs, and due administration of justice., the king keeps four secretaries of slate, who are to acquaint him with all that happens in the empire, and to receive his orders. Each of the days of the week, except Friday, which is their festival, is set apart for some of there. secretaries to inform the king of matters belonging to his province; and, notwithstanding his continued application to these private audiences, Aureng-Zeb never failed of giving public audiences every day except Fridays 6 An
An infinite number of rupees is continually flow ing into the great mogul's exchequer; for, betides the usual taxes and excessive imposts, the subjects must pay for their land, which is all his, and all employments both civil and military are sold; and when the possessors of any of them die, all they are worth falls to the king; for this reason, no fa mile can continue long great, but sometimes the son of an omrah goes a begging. Add to all this, that though in so vail an empire there are many barren lands, yet other provinces are wonderfully fruitful, as that of Bengal, which exceeds Egypt in plenty of all the fruits of the earth; betides, the country is so populous, that the artificers, though naturally given to sloth, are forced by necessity to work on carpets, brocades, embroidery, cloth of gold and silver, and other manufactures worn there,. and exported every year by an infinite number of ships, not only over Asia, but in Africa and Eu rope that the reader may form, some idea of the wealth of this empire, he is to observe, that all, the gold and fiver which circulates throughout the world, at last centers here. It is well known, that as much of it as comes out of America, after run king thro' several kingdoms in Europe, goes partly. K.to Turky for several sorts of commodities, and: partly into Persia for silk.; now the Persians, Ara bias'. and Turks, not being able to go without the commodities. of India, send great quantities of money to Mecca, to Afford, to Banners Abash and Gombroon, which is afterwards sent over, in ships to. Indotlan, there to purchase India goods., Beside,. the European ships that go by the Cape of Good, Hope every year,. carry upwards of a million sterling to that country, to buy those goods which: the merchandise they carry out is not able to part chase. It is said; the mogul receives from only his,heredie
hereditary countries, eight hundred millions of ru pees a year; but the tribute of the conquered countries could not be computed. His expences are also very large; for he has dispersed through his empire three hundred thousand horse, and four hundred thousand foot, who have all large pay. At court the daily expence is fifty thousand rupees, to main tain the elephants, horses, dogs,. hawks, tygers, and deer; as also Come hundreds of black and white eunuchs to look to the royal palaces, musicians, and dancers the arms offensive of the. mogul's are broad heavy sword?, bowed like scimitar; and those made in the country being apt to break, the English furnish them with such as are madeline Europe;. ill-shaped daggers, which' they always wear hang ing to their girdle;. bows and arrows, javelins, pistols, muskets,. and pikes twelve feet long for the foot, but most of the soldiers have bows and ar rows; they have also cannon in their cities and ar mies; their arms are a round buckler two feet dia meter, made of hides of buffaloes, and.ftuck with nails,. coats of mail, breastplates,, head-pieces, The soldiers. are paid by, the omrahs, who com and them, for which they have lands assigned; them by the mogul. The omrahs are divided into. several degrees,, and their pay. is proportional to. the number of. men. they are ordered to keep;, besides which the king allows them. a pension for their own use. Some of them turn vastly. rich;. but they spend all they get in. presents they are forced tp make the king every year, and in keep ing so many women, servants, camels, and horses of great value. Their, number through the empire is not. fettled, but.they are generally under forty;. they appear abroad with noble equipages, simeon; elephants, others on horseback, or in palatines, attended by the guards of their. palaces. All thai,lefide.,s
Beside at court are obliged to go twice a day to pay their respects to the king, that is, about ten in the morning, and about sun-set, in the place where he administers justice, or else they lose part of their pay. Next the omrahs in honour are the man fears, who have very honourable pay, own no superior but the king, and are only obliged to main tain four or five horse. The third degree is the lowlanders, who are also horse, but paid by the day, and their posh is not so honourable as the former. The light horse are subjea to the omrahs, and are accounted the best, for the foot and musketeers are in a miserable condition, and little to be depended upon. The artillery is divided into two sorts, the heavy cannon and the light, as they call it: the heavy consists of sixty or seventy guns, without reckoning three hundred field-pieces fixt on camels backs: the second sort consists of sixty or seventy small brass guns on carriages, with little red ban news, each drawn by two horses. All this artillery, especially the heavy, is under the direction of Franks, or Christian gunners, who receive extraordinary p-y; some of them formerly had two hundred ru pees a month, but now the moguls have learned something of the art, they have less. Besides the mogul soldiers, there are rajapurs, hired of the rajas or petty princes, for greet pay, that some of them being in his service and favoured more than others, the rest may envy them and seek the same honour. All soldiers whatsoever receive their pay duly every two months, except those that are pail by the omrahs; nor is there any danger their pay (hould be kept from them ; for ?1l people here, living ei ther ty their industry, or by serving the king, if they were not well paid they must either starve' or mnutiny.,There are two principal festivals kept in the court of the great Mogul, the first called bars-,gunt:
aunt, or yearly knot, is on the king's birth-day, it being a custom with these people to tie a knot upon a cord they keep by them for every year, of' their life. This solemnity is kept with great pomp,. all the great ones coming to wish the king many happy years, with presents of money and jewels. This day the mogul sits upon his richest throne,. which is all over set with diamonds, emeralds,. rubies, pearls, and sapphires The roof of it likewise is so orderly enriched with jewels of in estimable value, all found within the empire, that some make the value of it to rise to fifty millions the second festival is that of: Tol, which in that language signifies weight, and is kept in the king's house, where they weigh money, jewels, and other things of value presented by the great men and fa favourites, which are afterwards distributed among the poor with great solemnity. It is held a few days be fore or after the Barfgunt.,The Indians are well shaped, it being rare to find any of them crooked; and for stature like the Europeans. They have black hair, but not curled;; and their-skin is of an olive colour. They do not love white, saying it is the colour of leprosy. They live in low houses) with trees about them, so that at a distance their cities look like woods. They use carts to travel in, drawn by oxen, and aires when the journey is short. They delight very much in hunting, and make use of dogs and tame leopards. The Mahometanss of Indoftan, though barbarous in other respects, are not so deceitful, so proud, or such enemies to Christians as the Turks. The Pagans are fill more just to travellers. The languages spoken at court are the Arabian and the Persian: as for sciences, they can make no pro griefs in them for want of books, for they have none but some small manuscript works of Aristotle and Avicenna in Arabic. In physic they have but,frnall
small fill, and cure several diseases by sailing. They spend all they have in luxury, keeping a vast number of servants, but above all of concubines. The great men have noble structures, with several courts, and the top of the houses flat, to take the air, and fountains with carpets about them, to sit and receive visits from their friends. In.their dis. course they are modest and civil, not using so ma ny actions with their hands, nor talking so loud as some Europeans do. The vests of both men and women are narrow towards the waist, and hang down half way the leg; under them they wear long breeches, which serve for stockings. The foot remains bare, with a sort of flat (hoes, which are easily slipt off when they go into rooms to keep them clean, they being covered with carpets. The Mahometanss women do not appear in public, except only the vulgar sort and the lewd ones. The Indian idolaters may not have several wives at once, like the Mahometanss, but when the first is dead,. they may take, another, provided she be a maid, and of the same race or tribe. All the women are fruitful, which is caused by the air and provisions; and are so easily delivered, that some of. them go wash in the river the same day. They bring up their children naked till seven years of age. When a man or woman has committed such a-crime as to be expelled their tribe, as if a woman had lain with a Mahometanss, she mull live for a certain time only upon corn found in the cows dung, if she will be received again ,As to. the manner of burying, the usual way is to wash the body first in a river or pool, then burn, it in a neighbouring pagoda,. and throw the ashes into the same water; some, after the body is washed, encompass it with wood, the wife, who has been that while near the body, singing and expressing a desire to die, is. afterwards bound. by,a
a brahman, and burnt with it: a barbarous in humanity ! and yet they make a scruple of killing flies and pismires-those wretched women that refuse to be burnt, are to shave their heads, and remain widows all their lives, are despised by their family and tribe, because they have feared death, and can never recover their reputation, unless by their singular beauty they should happen to get a second husband since the Mahometanss are become sovereigns of India, they do not easily consent to this inhumanity. The great mogul and other princes have-commands ed the governors of their towns to hinder the practice of this abuse; but they do not so strictly ob serve it, provided they have considerable presents made them; and thus the difficulty they have in getting leave, saves many women the dishonour. The mourning used by them is shaving their head and beard, when any kindred die within the third degree; and at their king's death, the women break their glass and ivory beads they wear on their arms generally throughout all Indoftan the heat is excessive, except near the mountains: between Su. rat and Agra, the metropolis of the mogul's do minions, it only rains at one certain time of the year, that is, during those three months the fun is about the tropic of Cancer; the other nine months the Sky is so clear, that there is scarce a cloud to be seen above the horizon. Indoftan abounds in rice, excellent wheat, and all sorts of grain, vast flocks and herds of cattle, butter and cheese. There being no grapes, the wine is brought out of Ara bia and Persia. The flowers are very fragrant, and much better coloured than any in Europe. As for metals, the moguls country affords none but cop per, iron, and lead, but the want of others is abundantly made amends for, by rich mines of,diamonds
diamonds and other precious stones. The best is in the kingdom of Golconda, in a plain five miles in compass, which produces no manner of fruits, They say it was discovered one hundred and forty years ago, after this manner: a peasant sowing in thar plain, found such a rich-diamond, that he car cried it to a merchant of Golconda, who delighted in them more than the country-man. The news was immediately spread about the city, and every one that had money digging in that place, there were stones found from twelve to forty carats; and particularly a great one of some hundred carats, which was presented to Aureng- Zeb by one of his-omrahs: afterwards the king took the mine to him self, and now the merchants buy it of him by spans;,Besides all those kind of creatures which were *mentioned, when speaking of Damam, they have here the musk wild goat; its snout is like a goat, the hair like a flag, and its teeth like a dog. Un der the belly it has'a little bladder as big as an egg, full of a thick congealed blood, which being cut off, is tied up in a skin that the scent may not evaporate, after which the beast lives but a short time. They are also taken on the cold mountains of the kingdom of Butan; but the greatest quantity and the best comes out of the country of the Tartars, bordering on China, where they make a great trade of it.,As for fowl, there are all kinds in India that Eu rope affords, and many peculiar to the country. In the woods are abundance of peacocks, several sorts of parrots, and green pigeons. Besides the wild hens4here is a sort of tame ones, whose skin and bones are very black, but they are well tafted.,This vary empire, besides the natives, is inhabited by Persian, Tartars, Abyssinians, Armenians, Jews, Christians, Mahometanss, and others; but the molt unit erfal religions are the Mahometanss and,Pagan;
Pagan; for the first is professed by the mogul, the other by the ancient lords and people of the country All the gentiles in India hold the transmigration of souls; by which means, in their opinion, the souls after death receive the reward or punishment of their good or evil actions, being put into good or bad creatures. By reason of this same opinion, they take special care of all creatures, but chiefly of the cow, which they reckon the best, and therefore the habitation of the souls of good men ;, not only forbearing to eat them, but using all means to pre vent others from killing them. Though they all profess one religion, yet they are divided into eighty four feet or tribes, each of which, has its peculiar rites or ceremonies, and some difiin& profession or trade, which it would be reckoned infamous ever to forsake the first and principal tribe is that of the brach mans or priests, which is divided into ten several sets. The first five feed on, herbs and grain, without ever eating any thing that has life; the other five eat of all living creatures, except fill In these sets no man may marry out of his own tribe; they all converse, with one another, hut if one come that is not washed, they may not touch any body lest they defile him. The second tribe is that of the raja pours, or princes descended from warlike men. The wives of raja pours cannot avoid, being burned with their husbands if they have no male issue, and if they refute are carried by force. The third tribe of banians is divided into twenty feet, none of which marries into the other. They eat nothing that has life, living only on herbs and pulse. Almost all these are merchants,. and being bred up to it from their infancy, they are much greater cheats than the Armenians and; Jews. These are the chief tribes, the others being artificers, herdsmen, or peasants, with each their,particular;
particular ceremonies and tenets; but the brach mans and banians only are so precise about killing all creatures, suffering even those that are vent. mous to bite them, rather than hurt them. Out of all those tribes there are fathers or penitents, who wander about the country, and impose rigorous penances upon themselves, and are so greatly respected by the gentiles, that they think themselves happy who can prostitute daughters, fillers, or kinswoman to their lewdness, which they believe lawful in them these gentiles are so blinded with profound fu perfection, that they do not think it inconsistent to make their gods be born of men, and chuse wives, believing they love the same things men delight in. Some of them believe there are Elfin Fields, and twat in order to come thither, a river is to be paid like the Styx of the ancients, where they are to receive new bodies. Others are of opinion that the world will end very soon, after which they shall live again and go into a new country. They all believe :here is but one God, who has a thou sand arms, a thc.:and eyes, and as many feet; but that he does rot take notice of the particular ac tiens of men, because they are not worthy to be the object of his divine thoughts. As for evil spirits they believe they are so chained up that they can do them no harm. They talk of a man called Adam, who was the first and common father; and they say, that his wife having yielded to the temp nation of eating the forbidden fruit, made her hus band eat too. The priesthood among them is he redstart, as it was formerly among the Jews.,All the sects of gentiles on this side Ganges are very scrupulous as to eating with Christians and Mahometanss, or making use of the same utensils; but those beyond Malacca make no difficulty of it. They are so fly or ignorant as to think a womanly
may conceive by strength of imagination; and tho' for several years they be thousands of miles distant, yet their wives imagining they lie with them, may become with child; and therefore, when they hear of their being brought to bed, they make great re joining. The trial upon suspicion of theft among them is, by making the party swim over a river that is full of crocodiles, and if he gets over safe he is reputed not guilty.,In all the temples or pagoda of there idolaters, which for the most part are round, there are figures of devils, serpents, monkies, and several monsters hideous to'behold. In the villages where there are not carvers to cut them, they take a stone shaped like a cylinder, or small pillar, coloured black, and placing it on a column, adore it instead of an idol, offering to it sacrifice of betel, areca, and other things; and in the mountains, the country people had made choice, some of a stone, others of a tree, and some of an herb for their idol. The chief pagoda they go in pilgrimage to are Giagrane, Tenants, Matura, and Trivet; and in the kingdom of Bifnega there is a pagoda with three hundred marble pillars in it, and it is as firmed, that formerly they had laid out ten thou sand rupees there every year in making a cart with eighteen wheels, on which, when the festival of the idol was kept, the brahmans mounting with two hundred of impudent women-dancers, skipped about in honour of the idol. The cart was drawn by five hundred men; and some idolaters, believing that-each was the direct road to heaven, threw themselves under the wheels and were crushed to pieces. There is likewise a famous pagoda in a fall island near the island of Ceylon; at the entrance of it is a trough of black stone, and in it a statue of metal, with the eyes made of rubies. Within the further part of this pagoda is another,,which
which they open once a year, and there they adore a brazen idol called Lingon.,All the gentiles are obliged to go, once in their life at least, in pilgrimage to one of the four prin cipal pagoda, but the rich go several times, carry. ing the idols of their places of abode in procession, attended by hundreds of people and brahmans: and if they are nigh a river about the time of an eclipse, they break al their earthen vessels to use new ones, and run all of them to the river to boil rice and other things, which they throw in for the fishes and crocodiles; and while the eclipse lasts, they cast themselves into the river to wall, the brahmans attending the richest persons with clean cloths to dry them; then, on two or three small slicks of wood, they burn several blades of grain, with a great deal of butter, judging of the plenty of the year from the manner of the flame the princes of Asia that are idolaters are the kings of Cochin-china, Sunken, Arabian, Pegu, Siam, China, and several clams in great Tartary, the kings of Japan and Ceylon, and some princes of the Moluccas; as also all the rajas in the mo. gul's empire, but of several feds, some more super 4iitious than others.,CHAP.
C HAP. XVII. The author's return to Goa and voyage to Malacca,,andfrom thence to China. H E season for sailing china now approach. ing, Gemelli wanted to. return to Goa, but the bearing and his interpreter having both fled, he waited some; days in hopes of company; at: last finding none, he :resolved to venture all alone, through country infested with robbers and enemies of Christianity. On Sunday the 27th he mounted very melancholy, believing when he came at night to Edgar ,he should find a caravan of oxen, or some Christian of Goa, but was disappointed in both. ' On Tuesday he met the caravan of oxen, and travelled with it till sunset; but being necessitated to alight, and the caravan going on, he lost sight of it, and being left alone in the open field,: without any thing to eat, or place to take shelter in, he laid himself down among the bushes. Next day he went on alone without any knowledge of the road but what the track of the oxen afforded. Four days after, he at last arrived at the Portuguese guards, very sickly and weak, upon account of the hunger and fatigue he had undergone, which the Castellan and his wife observing, would not sus ser him to go any further, but by all means would have him be their guest, sending to a neighbour. ing farm for an pandora to carry him to Goa, but an unmannerly soldier carrying it away by forces Gemelli went on, attended by a soldier of the cattle to convoy him; and on Tuesday the 5th of April arrived at Goa in a very bad condition having-spent a month there to recover his health and spirits, on Wednesday the 4th of May he a-se greed
greed with Jerome Vafconcellos, captain of the Ho. ly Rosary, bound for China, upon the condition of supplying himself with provisions during the voyage, and on Saturday the sith, having taken leave of his friends, he went aboard with his goods, and a black slave, whom he had bought for eighteen pieces of eight. The vessel having fallen down to the mouth of the channel, set sail on Monday the 16th, and there being little wind, they were towed out by several boats of sixty oars, and saloons which are smaller, the city pilots be ing on board to carry them over the flat at the sort of Gasper Dios. On Wednesday the wind rising high, the pilots were obliged to run the vessels upon the sands to avoid the rock, and there be ing danger that the ships might split at the flood, every one endeavoured to carry off his goods and to get ashore; but by the affiance of more boats, and saloons they were got off safe, with only the-loss of their fresh water, and some provisions that were thrown overboard. They got not out on Thursday the 19th, through the fault of the city pilots, but about break of day on Friday the doth, the wind blowing fair, their vessel, called the Rosary, and five others put out to sea, and on Tuesday the 24th, the pilots judged themselves in the latitude of Cape Comorin. It is to be observed, that in this place they found an unaccountable work of nature, which is, that at the same time it is winter in Goa and all along that coast, it is simmer upon all the opposite coat wednesday the 25th, making an observations, they found themselves in the latitude of the island of Ceylon, which was joyful news to all on board, as being then sure they should continue their voyage Friday the 3d of June they were in sight of the island of Nicobar, where it is said there is a well that converts iron into gold; an English,sailor
sailor having once affirmed, that an islander bring ing some of the water on board, and by chance spilling some of it upon an anchor, that part upon which the water fell turned into gold. On Mon day the 27th, after a tedious course, in which they were frequently carried back by opposite currents, they anchored off Malacca, where Gemelli. went ashore with the captain, and took a lodging-in an inn.,Malaca is seated on the molt southern part of the antient Chersonese, in two degrees and twenty minutes of latitude. The Portuguese took it from the king of Thor, but not without the expence of much blood. In the year 1640 it was taken from them by the Dutch, after they had defended it brave ly for six months.,On Friday-the ill of July they sailed from Ma lace, and on Tuesday the i2th they entered the mouth of the freight of Sincapiera, which is a quarter of a league over, but farther in wider, though inclosed at first by so many islands, that it is a mere labyrinth to ships, which those that have never seen it before think they shall never get out of, feeing lard on all sides. Having left there islands, and sailing with a fair wind, on Sunday the I7th, at break of day, they were in sight of the island of Borneo. This island is the largest in the world, concerning rarities of inestimable value, and almost unknown to Europeans, because all possessed by Mahometan kings, who do not sussex strangers to go upthe country tuesday the seth, the wind continuing fair, they steered their course towards Pulo Condore; the sea being now clear of rocks and flats, and not being so much tossed, though the vessel ran swift, they were at their ease. The fair wind continuing all Wednesday the 20th, carried them across the gulph of Siam, into which falls the great river that,VOL. VII. D leads
leads up to that court, after running one hundred and twenty miles, all the way inhabited on both sides. On Friday the 22d they came in sight of Pulo Condore, an island belonging to the king of Cochinchina, but not inhabited upon account of the continual sumatra or storms of rain that fall every day. On Saturday the 23d, at sunset, they were off the coast of Champs, and on Sunday they sailed with a fair wind along the same coast, and in sight, and south of the bay of that name, whither several nations resort, to buy elephants teeth, eagle-wood, and other commodities.,All this country of Malacca, Cambria, Siam, Champs, Cochinchina, and Tonquin, abounds in elephants, of which the Samnites particularly make a great trade, carrying'them by land to the opposite coast, where merchants buy and transport them by sea into the dominions of Mahometan princeton Wednesday the 27th they were quite be calmed off the kingdoms of Tonquin and Cochin china; but the wind rising fair towards night, next day they were near the island of Yucatan, three hundred and sixty miles from Pulo Condore: this is a small island, three miles about, inhabited by Cochinchinefe, and Sometimes governed by a man arise. Saturday the roth, the same wind con tinting till noon, it afterwards became fairer, set them very forward, and blowing so for two days, on Monday August the gift they were off the island Aynan, belonging to the province of Canton. Tuesday the 2d, they came near the island of St. John, so famous for St. Francis Xaverius ending his days there when he hoped to enter China. Wednesday the 3d, towards evening, they could make no way because of the wind, and therefore lay tacking all night among a labyrinth of islands, which afforded a curious prospect, being lighted by many fisher boats plying about them. These people always,live
live in their floating houses, with their women and children, removing from one place of the islands to another, following the course cf the fishes thursday the 4th, being off Macao, several people came from the city in boats, every one to see his friend, among the rest F. Philip Fiefia pro curator of Japan, with refreshments for ten fathers that were on board. Gemelli going into the bark with these fathers, got to the city Macao, on the so long wished for land of China, and was courte oufly entertained in the monastery of St. Augustin, by F. Joseph of the Conception, born at Madrid, and prior of the places H A P. XVIII. A description of the city Macao in China, with an-account of the author's journey from thence to Can ton, Nanking, and the imperial city Pekin; a de scription of these cities, and the emperor's palace at Pekin. THE city Macao belongs to the Portuguere,,and was built by them about the year 1585, upon a rocky arm of land, about three miles in circumference, and almost wholly surrounded by the sea, they having obtained a grant of it from the Chinese, as a place of safety to winter at, till the season would allow them to return home. The ground it stands on is uneven, but the houses are well-built, after the manner of Europe, and the churches are very fine; the streets also are well paved, and there are three firing forts erected for its defence. The number of its inhabitants is computed at twenty thousand, five thousand of whom are Portuguese, and the others Chinese; but the whole territory belonging to the towns 2 could
could not afford provisions to subsist them one day ; therefore all is brought in from the Chinese villa ages, which are so plentiful, and afforded provisions so cheap, that the value of a piece of eight in bread will serve a man half a year.,All the income and revenue of this city depends upon the uncertainty of the sea, all persons what ever applying themselves to trade, and even that is greatly decayed since the massacre of the Christians in Japan, it being now death for any of them to be found there; yet as necessaries are so plentifully sup plied from China, they live in abundance, and make so much of themselves, that their tables are never without sweetmeats, excellently furnihled.,Gemelli being resolved to go over to Canton, w went on Thursday the Sith, to speak to the Portuguese general, to get a pass from the mandarine, that he might not be troubled on the road; and on Sunday the Sith, being clad in the Chinese fa sion, he waited on the mandarine himself, and took leave of him, after he had got a pass to all the custom-houses on the road, because he carried goods of bulk and a slave. Next day, in the even ins, he went on board a boat for Canton, with a Chinese servant whom he hired for an interpreter, and the boat rowing all night by a single oar fattened in the stern, they made much way through the channel made by the islands, and the next day ar rived at Canton, which is more like a village than a city, having no wall, and its low houses for the most part of timber, and thatched hiring another boat he sailed forward to Seo- lam, and found it like a great wood inhabited: it is about three miles in compass; and besides, there are such a number of boats that they almost make another town. On the opposite side of the channel is another city called Santa, much greater and better built; likewise the whole country, on,both
both sides, is crowded with villages, and adorned with green fields and beautiful towers every where appearing upon high mountains. Thursday the,t8th, setting forward in a third vessel, with several Chinese, next day, at fun-rising, they put into the port of Canton ;' and Gemelli going to the mo mastery of the Spanifh fathers, of the order of St. Francis, they received him very courteously, not without some jealousy of his being sent by the pope, to enquire privately into the divisions of China, there being then a dispute betwixt the bishop of Macao and the vicars apostolic of Chi na, Tonquin and Cochinchina, which of them should have the superiority of the missionaries and catholics canton is the metropolis of the province of Quantum and being too large to be governed by one governor, it is divided into two by a wall from east to west. One casu or regent is superior to these governors, and has two assistants; but the viceroy who governs the province is above them all: yet there is a vicar-general of two provinces who is above the viceroy. These two cities and-their sub urbs are so populous, that there is some trouble in going along in a chair ; and the fathers missionaries affirmed, what to Europeans may sound like a fable, that they contained four millions of souls, and the province as many more. The houses are low, either of stone or brick, without any win cows to the street, and almost all alike, the Chi nee building all after the same model, so that their cities resemble one another there are four principal gates to the cities facing east, wentworth and south, the suburbs taking their names from them: if the city be large there are more gates, but these four muff not be omit ted. The streets are long and straight, and so crowded with rich shops, that both in the city and,D 3 suburbs
suburbs it looks like one continued fair; and a gentleman, if he would avoid the contempt of the Chinese, must not walk a shep afoot, but must be carried in a chair; it is true indeed, a chair is to be had at a very easy rate, they asking only sixpence for carrying a person seven miles near Canton appears another floating city in boats upon the canal; for in every one of them whole families live with their beasts and birds, each of them being as long as a galley, covered with canes or fig-leaves, with eleven or twelve several rooms in length, to which there is a communication through a boarded gallery, which runs along both sides of them gemelli being resolved to go on to Pekin, spoke to the superior of the monastery where he lay, to provide him a faithful servant, upon which he pro cured him a Christian Chinese guide, who hired himself for six shillings and eight pence a month, and likewise recommended another about eighteen years of age, to serve as a cook, and do other mean of sices.,Having made provision of visual, he went aboard with his two Chinese servants, on Friday the 26th, in the post-bark or packet-boat, sent every three days by the viceroy to the emperor. Setting sail on Saturday morning, they left the canal of Can ton, and went into another less, full of boats, al] ways in sight of villages and country-houses amidst green fields. Three hours before fun-setting they came to a large city called Fustian, being two miles in length on both sides the bank, and as much in boats upon the water. Next morning they set out again, and before noon they had passed other two large villages, each a mile long, on both the banks. Continuing their voyage the three fol lowing days, they came to the town of Yntexyen, with a large suburb, and a Pagoda near the river:,fiill
fill sailing on, they came on Sunday the both of September to Sciau-Cheufu, a city encompassed by a weak wall, four miles in compass wednesday the 7th, after night-fall, they came to Chiankeu, a small village, which was as far as the first boat went. Here they took another less, because of the current, and for want of water: continuing their voyage, they came on Friday the 9th to Nangunfu, the last city of the province of Canton: this city stretches a mile and a half in length, and a quarter in breadth, and is full of shops of goods and provisions, being a great tho rough fare for all goods, carried either from or to Canton.,The channel from Macao reaching no farther, Gemelli hired chairs for himself and his servants to be carried over land to the great canal which leads to Nanking. The chairmen trotted five miles an hour, and though the way lay over craggy mountains .they rested only three times during the whole journey, which confided of thirty miles. The way was like a continual fair, there was such an abundance of goods carried along it by an infinite num ber of porters, and so many chairs; at that time there was upwards of thirty thousand passing and re-passing. To feed such a number of people, the road is a continual row of villages and inns, where there porters dine for the vale of a grain of Naples money, which is the smallest coin three hours before night they came to Nan guns on the great canal, where Gemelli'lodged, in the house of the Spanish Franciscans. This city is about a mile in length, besides the suburbs, and there are many villages on the side of the ca nat. The houses are of alone, brick, and timber, low, and ill-built, and the shops not very rich; but the great canal deserves the notice and admiration of all strangers, being certainly a greater 4 and
and more wonderful work, than all those ancient ones we are told of the Romans, Persians, Taffy. hans, or other former monarchies. This great canal, extending for about the length cf three hundred and thirty miles, begins at Pekin, where the western Tartars who conquered China have fixt the seat of their empire, and was first made for the easy furnishing the necessary prove. sons for the support of that mighty court. To break the current of the water, and to. make it the deeper, it has, in several places, seventy-two sluices, the passage through which is generally easy, but there are some few difficult and dangerous, where the boats are pulled up by four or five hundred men; and in going down they fatten ropes to the stern of the boat, which they turn round strong stone pillars then let them run gently, while others with long poles shod with iron, keep the boats from dashing against the banks sunday the iI th, Gemelli was so weak and sick ly that he could hot set out though the boat was ready; but next day he went on board, and the boat immediately set out with the stream, amidst very high mountains that encompassed them round. After a voyage of thirteen days on this canal, he came on Monday the 26th to Nanchianfu,.the me metropolis of the province of Khans, having passed by nineteen populous towns and villages, built up on the side of the canal the journey by water being tedious, he resolved to hire mules to Pekin, but not finding that conveniency he was forced to take another boat, where he took up his night's lodging for the conveniency of the coolness. On WVednefday the 28th he set out before day, and pain several fine towns, on Tuesday the I With of May they arrived at the great suburb of Nanking. During their voyage they-were thrice stopt by the customhouse officers, who,searched
searched their boat very narrowly; and they were entertained with the ingenuity of the fishermen, who used many contrivances to catch their fish that are unknown in Europe. Gemelli having landed, took a chair, and went in it some miles to the house of monsignore d'Argoli, a Venetian bishop of Nan king, by whom he was courteously received.,Kiamim or Nanking, which in the Chinese language signifies the southern court, is seated for the most part in a plain, and was formerly the imperial court, as Pekin is at present. The compass of its walls is above thirty-fix Italian miles, though some affirm it to be more than forty: the suburbs about the city are not much less than it, including, another floating city upon boats in the canals. Some reckon thirty-two millions of souls here; but this account appears, by later observations, to be greatly exaggerated. This city is fill the largest in the whole empire, where are the richest Shops, the choicest books, the finest press, and the politest language. Here the most famous doors and man marines come to settle when out of employment. In snort, this is, as it were, the center of the em pire, where are to be found all rarities and curiosities of the other provinces though the great populousness ofthis empire may be aflonl;iing to Europeans, yet it is the natural consequence of the maxims they follow. The Chi nee reckon it infamous to continue unmarried, so that if a man has ten sons they all marry early as many wives as they can maintain; and in China there are are no whores tolerated, lest they corrupt youth, but any they find are severely punished: the Chinese also never quit their own country to people others, and greatly despise vagabonds who omit to propagate their families, thereby neglecting a duty to their deceased progenitors.,D 5
The city, by reason of its greatness, is under two governors, to whom are subordinate hundreds of mandarines for the administration of justice, be sides others who have no dependance on them, but only on the emperor. To prevent as much as pos. bible all extortion, corruption, and favour, the near relations of great ministers are not allowed to con. verse with those under their charge, it being forbid by the fundamental laws of the kingdom, for any man to have a command in his own country, or to have any bosom friends in the province where he is in power here, among other remarkable things, are found two of the largest bells in the world, both fallen to the ground by their vast weight. The height of one is eleven feet; its diameter, including the thickness, is seven feet; the circumference contracts gradually to half the height, where it again extends; the thickness of the metal was six inches and a half; the weight, including that of the clapper, fifty thou sand pounds. The other lay in a garden upon its side, half-buried; the height is twelve feet, with out including the ring ; the thickness is nine inches the gates of the city are of iron, and there are four at every entrance one within another, the struck. turns about them being a musket-shot in thickness; near one of there gates there is a good bridge over the canal, and at the other end, in the suburb, is the pagoda of the Paughenfu, in the middle of a great court; within it is the statue of a woman slanting and on her right and left four colossus's, with arms in their hands, painted of several colours, hi deus to behold. Going on farther in another court is a greater pagoda, all covered with porcelain of fe. vernal colours. The entrance to it is through a large and spacious hall, above which is a porch which has five gates into the temple. The tower itself,a'.l of porcelain, both within and without, yellow,
low, green, blue, and of other colours, with the figures of many several idols; it is an odogon, and about forty feet round; has nine stories di vide on the outside by as many cornices, curiously wrought; the top is covered with brass, and a gilt globe on it: every story has four large win cows answering the, four quarters of the world and the height of the whole is two hundred feet the tomb of the first emperor of the family of Mincing stands without the city, on a mountain, guarded by eunuchs who there lead a religious life: it consists of a great hall handsomely covered, with a place like a tribune or gallery in it, where that emperor's picture is kept locked up. The tomb is in a grot dug in the mountain, and the entrance kept shut. If Gemelli had staid till a day declared by the astrologers fortunate for burial, he would have seen several thousand coffins carried forth; for the Chinese cause make them in their lifetime, and after they are dead the corps is inclosed in them, and kept some time in the house till the as troopers appoint a day for burial.,In going along the streets of Nanking, one's nose is greatly offended with the smell of ordure which the porters are carrying in tubs for manuring the orchards, and fell to the gardeners for greens, vinegar, or money, they giving a better price for that which is come of flesh, than that of fish, which they know by tasting it with their tongue. Nothing is more frequent on the river than boats loaded with that filth; and if a man has the misfortune to be catched among these boats he is almost stifled. Along the roads-there are convenient places, whitened, with seats, and co vexed, to invite passengers to flop and case them selves; a vessel underneath, prevents any thing from being loft.,D 6 While
While Gemelli staid at Nanking, the fathers endeavoured to persuade him not to go to Pekin, because the Portuguese Jesuits wanted no Europe. n to icon into the slate of that court; but perceive. ing they could not alter his resolution, they took care to provide what was necessary for his journey. He might have gone by water within half a day's journey of Pekin, but as it is a tedious way, and every body travelling from Nanking by land, he chore to do the same having returned the bishop and the fathers, his companions, thanks for their kind entertainment, he set out on Saturday the Isti, after dinner, and had the fortune to have the company of a Christian Chinese Doctor, who had taken his degree to be a mandarine, and wanted nothing but money, without which no employments are given in Chi na. After they had got without the city they took boat, and passing under the bridge went along the channel about the walls of the city; then they changed boat, where a scurvy accident happened to Gemelli, which had like to have stopt his journey; for his servant, though warned, forgot in the other boat a little portmanteau, in which he had laid up-one hundred pieces of eight; but as they were re turning in search of it, they observed the watermen of the first boat rowing after them, calling to them to take it.,Being over the Khan, which is the greatest river in China, and at that place two miles broad, they came to the city of Puken, seated on the left of the river, with a wall ten miles in compass, but with few houses, the people chusing to live in the suburbs, which are very large. The door's over civility was very troublesome; for at all actions, though never so natural, the Chinese ceremonies must be fill observed ; and at night he so greatly importuned Gemelli to mak his two servants fit,dowa
down at table, that he condescended to it rather than disoblige him, though afterwards he was fen bible of his error, for they growing bolder with him on the road, served him ill sunday the i6th they travelled all day without drawing bit, over hills, mountains, and plains, well-inhabited, but the houses were all small: by the way they met crowds of passengers, and caravans of mules and. ass, and little carts with one wheel, drawn by two men, upon each of which lay as much as would have loaded two mules. The roads, though greatly frequented, did not render travelling dear; for ten farthings will serve any man night and morning, and the Chinese delighting most in porridge and herbs, a good fowl or duck may be bought for three farthings. Through the whole journey, which consisted of two thousand one hun died and fifty lys, each of which is two hundred and sixty paces, the road lay through fertile fields and populous towns, especially in the province of Pekin, where there was not a stage without two or three large villages or towns sunday the 6th of November, after travelling twenty miles together along the foot of uncouth mountains, Gemelli arrived at Pekin, and went to alight at the house of the Jesuits, to make himself known to F. Philip Grimaldi, provincial and the emperor's president for the mathematics, that by his means he might see what was most remark able at court. He received him very courteously, expressing a concern that he could not entertain him in the monastery till he had acquainted the emperor; and admiring who had advised him to come to Pekin, whither no European may come without being fent,for by the emperor. Gemelli answered, that the same liberty he took to go to the courts of the grand signior, the king of Persia, and the Mogul, brought him to that of Pekin, but,that
that he did not desire to see forts or any thing else that might raise jealousy in the Chinese; there fore taking his leave, they waited upon him to the door, causing their servants to attend him to his lodging, which was taken for him in the Chinese city.,Xuntien, or Pekin, is in the latitude of forty degrees, seated in a spacious plain, and divided in to two cities, the one called the Tartar, and the other the Chinese. The first is square, every side being three Italian miles in length, with nine gates. This city is inhabited by Tartars, and by the em pero's servants and attendants about his person, or belonging to his courts and councils, all officers civil and military being there. The Chinese city is of the same bigness as the other, being four leagues in compass, but not perfectly square; it has seven gates, which with the nine of the other city, make sixteen in all; from each of the gates runs a very long suburb, so that the whole is twenty one miles in compass; both suburbs and city are well inhabited. The great streets run from north to south, and the rest from east to west; they ate all strait, long, wide, and well-proportioned; the finely of them all is that called Skian-Gankiai, that is, the street of perpetual rest; it is above one hundred and thirty feet wide, and so famous, that the learned men in their writings make use of its name to signify the city. The houses even here are low, and though the great men have large and stately palaces, they are (hut up backwards, and no thing appears outwards but a great gate with houses on both sides, inhabited by the servants, tradesmen, or mechanicks.,The multitude of people here is incredible ; for all the streets of both cities are full of people, as well the little ones as the great, and there is such a throng in all parts as cannot be paralleled but,with
with the fairs and processions in Europe. Some of the missionaries then resident there affirmed, that in both cities, in the suburbs, and on the water, there were no less than sixteen millions of souls; but exacer accounts since shew that this computation is an error the emperor's palace is seated in the midst of this great city, fronting the south-as is the custom of that country: it is enclosed by a double wall, one within another, and square; that without is sixteen spans high, built of brick; its length is two Italian miles, and the breadth half as much, having a gate in the middle of each side, guarded by twenty Tartars and twelve eunuchs. The inner wall, which immediately encloses the palace, is much higher and thicker, made of large bricks, all equal, and adorned with handsome battlements. It is a mile and a half in length, and half as much in breadth, having four great arched gates; over these gates and the angles of the wall are eight halls, of an extraordinary bigness, and beautiful structure, set off with red varnish, strewed with flowers of gold, and the covering of yellow tiles. Two cap pains with forty Tartars guard the entrance of each of the inner gates, and to every gate there is a draw-bridge over the ditch that surrounds the wall; in the space between the two walls are built several round detached houses, large and convenient for several uses and purposes: and on the east side, within the outer wall, runs a river with several firing bridges over it, all of marble, except a wooden draw-bridge in the middle. On the west side is a pond well-flowed with fish, above a mile in length, over the middle of which is a fine bridge, and at each end a triumphant arch, of a beautiful and excellent structure. The remaining spaces are divided into wide streets, inhabited by servants,,officers,
officers, and workmen belonging to the imperial palace the imperial apartments, within the inner en closure, some will have to be twenty, others twelve, and some will have them to be nine, with as many courts, every one writing by hearsay, and not by what he has seen, for it is impossible for any Eu. european to see them all, especially that of the women we [hall only say, that all these courts and apartments are upon a line with great halls of a go. thick itruaure, wherein the timber-work is beautiful enough, a great number of pieces of wrought work advancing one above another, in the nature furnishes. When one views the emperor's apart ments, the arches sustained on massy pillars, the steps cf white marble go up to the high rooms, the roofs shining with gilt tiles, the ornaments of cary. ing, varnishing, gilding, and painting, the pave ments, which are almost all of marble, or porcelain ; the whole is certainly beautiful and admirable and like the palace of a great prince: never theseus, the architecture and ornaments are not very regular, and here is not the symmetry and beauty of the European palaces.,CHAP.
CHAP. XIX. The resenting of the new kalendar; the aud;rcegztven,to the autchr by the emperor ; a deftr,'ptioh of the great wall; an account of the religions in the empire of China, and its extent and form of govern ment described. F Grimaldi sending for Gemelli, told him, that,, morning was a proper time to go with him into the palace, becaufe.he was to present the em pero the new kalendar for the year 1696, which he had composed in the Chinese, the Tartar, the eastern and western languages-having passed the first wall, within which stands the house of the French jesuits, they entered the palace through a great gate guarded with soldiers; and crossing a great court, on the sides whereof were lanes of fol tiers well-clad, and in good order, they went up to the first hall by twenty steps of white marble. This room was very large, so that, besides the walls, the roof was supported by two rows of pillars within, well painted and gilt. This hall led to the second court, where there was another hall with a like ascent: from this they went through other courts, to the third and the fourth hall, which last exceeded the others in structure and cool. Be fore they came into this fourth hall, Grimaldi de livered the almanac put up in a casket covered with silk, to a person sent by the emperor, who took it with great refpea and civility afterwards, desiring Gemelli to wait, he told him he would introduce him to his majesty, it be ing necessary, lest coming afterwards to know of his being there, he should be offended. In fine, after an hour's flay, during which Gemelli learned,the
the ceremonies he was to perform, a servant came to bid them advance. They passed through four long courts, hemmed in with apartments, under very high and well-proportioned gates of white marble. The emperor's throne was in the midst of a great court, on the top of five stages above one another, lessening proportionally, and each hemmed in with banisters of fine white marble. On the top of the fifth ascent, and round the throne, upas an admirable open room covered with gilt tiles, and supported by strong wooden pillars varnished. The emperor was seated after the Tartan manner, on a sofa or floor raised above the rest of the room three feet, and covered with a large carpet which reached over all the pavement; be had by him ink, books, and pencils, after the Chinese manner, to write; and was clothed in yellow silk, which is the imp. rial colour, embroidered with dragons; on his right and left were ranks of eunuchs, well-clad, and without any weapons. Having performed the ce ceremonies of salutation, they were ordered to advance and kneel down before the emperor. The father being interpreter, he asked of Gemelli concerning the wars then carried on in Europe ; he asked him likewise whether he was a physician, or understood surgery or the mathematicks; to which Gemelli answered in the negative, being forewarned by the fathers not to own his understanding any science, otherwise the emperor would detain him in his ser vice. At length he gave them their conger, and they retired without any ceremony tuesday the 8th Gemelli went in a chair, which is very dear in Pekin, to see the city towards the east quarter, and found every where very beautiful public places and rich shops. He found the cold very sharp in the streets, and therefore afterwards he did not sir out till the fun had gathered strength: this sharpness in Pekin proceeds from the nearness,of
of the high mountains which divide the Great Tartary from China, that the hardest weather is not till January, the winter beginning in Novem ber, and continuing till the middle of March, without any rain at all; during which time, by means of the great frost, there are brought out of the Eastern Tartary, an infinite number of pheasants partridges, deer, wild boars, and other beasts, all so frozen, that the beasts will keep two or three months, and the pheasants thirty days. From March till the beginning of June they have a persia spring, with little rain; but in June and July, and till the middle of August, the rains are plentiful, and are very necessary to wash the streets of all the filth gathered in them; for grave per sons are not ashamed to ease themselves in public places upon account of the cold, the women wear coifs and caps on their heads, whether they go in chairs or a horseback; yet they chute rather to be numbed in their rooms than use any fire, being in great want of wood, and not able to endure the noisome smell of a sort of mineral like the English seacoast, which they burn only in their kitchens the so famous great wall of China being not far from Pekin, Gemelli had the curiosity to see it. The fathers advising him to avoid the guards, and go to that part of it next the mountains, on Saturday the 12th he set out with an attendant, and next day arrived at the wall. This wall is in some places fifteen feet high, in others twenty-fix; but in the vallies it is much higher and thicker, for six horses may easily go abreast on it. The structure is all of large burnt bricks, and few stones; about two bowshots from one another there are large strong square towers, which continue all the length of the wall to the sea, and even half a league into it.,The
The length of the whole wall is computed at five hundred Spanifi leagues, running through val-les and over mountains as need requires, yet not so as to be every where upon a level, as some would have us believe; it is above one thousand eight hundred years since the emperor Xihoamti caused it to be built against the incursions of the Tartars, yet the structure still looks as if it were new, ex kept only some few ruins, which the Tartars do not mind to repair. In prudence, the Chinese should have secured the most dangerous passes; but what appeared ridiculous, was to see the wall run up to the t( p of a high and sleep mountain, where the birds would hardly build, much lets the Tartar horse climb to break into the country. Monday the 14th, he returned the same way he came, and was at Pekin next. day before it was dark friday the 18th, the emperor went from the pa. lace to his country-house, where he diverts him. self half the year. The manner of the procession was as follows; first marched about two thousand soldiers and servants, after whom followed about twenty women in close clashes; next came the king attended by the princes of the blood and man marines; he was a horseback, plainly clad in a gar ment of gold colour, embroidered with dragons. On his mango, or Tartar cap, was a rich jewel. Sometimes when he goes abroad, he is carried in a chair by thirty-two men, who contrive it so in. seriously lattice wife,' that all equally bear a part of the burthen.,In this large empire of China, there are several religions professed, according to the variety of people in it. To begin with the emperor, he be ing a Tartar, follows the idolatry of his nation, which in the main agrees with the religion of the Chinese and Japanese; yet they all differ in seas,,which
which arises from the several idols which every one takes for his titular god.,The Tartars of Great Tartary, adore a deity whom they esteem the god of the earth, and no man is without his image in hi house, with former other smaller ones, whom they call his wife and children; these they adore and worship, especially when they are going to dinner or supper. But there is a much more impious and ridiculous ado ration paid by the Tartars to a living man, whom they call lama or prist of priests. This man is adored as a deity by all the kings of Tartary and their fubjeas, who go in pilgrimage with considerable gifts, worship him as a true and living god. He, as a great favour, shews himself in a dark place of his palace, adorned with gold and silver, and lighted by several hanging lamps, sit ting upon a cushion of cloth of gold, on a place rAised from the ground, and covered with fine car pets; then they all prostrate themselves flat on the ground, and humbly kiss his foot. In Pekin, there is a great temple within the palace of these religious lama's. It is a round tower of twelve stories, handsomely built upon an artificial hill,' made like a sugar-loaf, of great stones carried from the sea. On the top of the tower are many small: bells, which being shaken with the wind, ring night and day. The idol on the altar is like a na ked rustick man, and adored only by the lama's and western Tartars, the eastern Tartars and the Chinese abhorring it. The principal idol they adore in the kingdom of Lassa is Menipe, made up of nine human heads, in form of a cone; before which, they offer sacrifice, and place meat, to gain the favour of the idol. The Mahometan religion has also made so great a progress in China, being brought in by the Tartars of the greater Tartary,,that
that the missionaries affirmed there were upwards of two millions that professed it.,The religion of the Chinese may be reduced to three principal seAs. One of the literati or learn. ed, the second of Lawzu, and the third that of the commonalty. That of the learned, is directed to two principal ends, the one the public good of the kingdom, the other the particular happiness of in individuals, to be procured by the merit of virtuous at-ions, according to the dictates of reason, improve. ed and made perfect by moral philosophy, wherein they take much pains to advance themselves. Yet most part of them do not believe the immortality of the soul, regarding only the precepts of mora city, as they contribute to human happiness in this life. Nevertheless, the wiser sort, thinking it in tolerable on the one hand to believe that men and beasts are equal as to length of life, nay, that there should be brutes that live longer, some an age and fine more; on the other hand, not thinking that immortality is the natural property of the soul, but a reward of merit; they affirm that virtue is a quality that partakes somewhat of the divine being, and able to remove all that is corruptible out of the soul where it resides, so that when parted from the body, it (hall be united to God. The famous Chinese philosopher Confucius, who lived about two thousand years ago, is honoured by them with humble prostrations and worship, he having a temple built to him in every city near the schools, where the mandarines, doors, and batchelors meet every new and full moon. This set use no temples, nor priests, nor idols, nor sacrifices, nor sacred rites the second fed is called of Lawzu, 'from a phi lofopher of that name, who lived in the time of Confucius, and said to have been carried in his mother's womb eighty years before he was borne They
They believe that the sovereign God is corporeal, and governs other deities as a king does his sub jecls; they are greatly addicted to chymistry, be living that by means of a certain drink, men may become immortal. The priests of this sea parti clearly employ themselves in expelling the' devils out of houses, and pretend to the power of procuring rain or fair weather at pleasure, and of avert ing private and public calamities; this sea at pre sent has but few followers. The third fed is that of the common sort, or of the Bonzes, who have ! idols and deities represented in strange and mon serous figures; and among the rest, two famous through all the east, namely Amid and Schiaca. It is the principle of this see, contrary to that of the learned, to take no care of the public, and only mind themselves. They allow the soul's immortality after the death of the body, and that it is re warded or punished-according as it deserves ; but they condemn matrimony, and live in commonest is said this pernicious set was brought into China after this manner. In the year 63 after the birth of Christ, the shape of a holy hero ap feared to the emperor in a dream; and being far ther persuaded by the words of Confucius, that in the west, there was just man, he sent his ambassador to find the holy man and the holy law; they coming to an island not far from the Red Sea, and not having the courage to go any farther, returned with an idol and statue of a man called Foe; they had been happy and deserved well of their country, had they brought the doctrine of Christ, which at that time was preached by St. Thomas the apostle in India.,From these three sets have sprung many others, and an incredible multitude of idols proceeds from the evening statues to men, who for some memo able action, have deserved well of their countryseat
as also from their opinion, that there are particular spirits in the woods, hills, rivers, and seas, to whom they ere and consecrate statuesque most universal idol is that they call China. Juan, the protector of towns and cities, every town having pagoda with this idol, which is repre. seated with horses bridled and saddled, held by two servants for his use; and they say, whilst he lived he travelled a thousand miles a day. The soldiers and martial men have a particular idol for them. selves, as the European heathens had Mars.,The Christians throughout the empire of China amount to two hundred thousand, served by missionaries of several orders, who are much obliged to the jesuits in Pekin; they having at all times flood up against the malice of the mandarines, in defence of the fathers, who are spread about the kingdom looking after their churches. Nor could any other order maintain itself; for as the Chinese love the Europeans for their own interest, the jesuits are obliged to exert themselves to please them, by com posing their almanac in three languages, with the motions of the planets, and most considerable liars, to observe eclipses, and make mathematical inftru. ments and clocks. Having also set up a press, and printed many books of science and devotion, par circularly a translation of the Bible, and the works of St. Thomas, they begin to undeceive the Chi nee, who are so fond of themselves, that they look upon all others as barbarous and unpolifhed.,The interpreters of the Chinese history deduce the original of that great monarchy from Fohi, who began his reign in the year 2952 before Chris, and brought the savage and wandering men to live in society. About three hundred years after him, reigned Hoamti, called the yellow emperor, because he took that colour, which is allowed toto
none but the emperors. He invented music nd musical instruments, as also-arms, nets, carts, ships, and carpenter's work, and composed several books of physic; his queen brought in fashion the keep ing of silk words, and of dying and weaving silk. Xao-Hao succeeded Hoamti, and began to build and enclose the villages with walls. Kuen-Hio, the next emperor, invented the calendar, and Tito his grandson, who succeeded next, appointed masters to teach the people, and found out vocal mu sic. After these princes came the two celebrated emperors and legislators, Yo and Nun, from whom the civil rites and inflitutions are derived. The imperial families are descended from these two founders of the Chinese nation: in all, they reckon twenty-two of them, that is, nine great ones, and thirteen lesser, among whom is included the fa miry of the eastern Tartars, which, at this present rules the Tartar and Chinese empires. By their chronological tables, it appears that the monarchy has continued four thousand six hundred and fifty seven years from Fohi, without any interruption. We cannot but own, there is no kingdom or flare in the world, that can boat of so ancient a race of kings, so numerous and well continued. This long continuance and antiquity, besides other excel benches of China, fills the Chinese with pride, they looking upon their own empire as the greatest, and every thing else that belongs to them as the bes. In their maps, they describe China square, and very large, and represent the other kingdoms about it, without any order or geographical method, making them little and inconsiderable, with ridiculous and contemptible names this vast empire is seated in the most eastern part of the continent of Asia,' and reaches twenty three degrees, or one thousand three hundred and eighty Italian miles; its breadth in a streight line,VOL. VII. east
ear and west, is one thousand two hundred Italian miles, it is bounded on the east by the eastern ocean, on the north by a long wall dividing it from Tartary, on the west by very high mountains and sandy desarts, separating it from several kingdoms, ana on the south by the ocean. It is divided into fifteen provinces, which may rather be called large kingdoms, besides several islands depending upon it. The walled places in this mighty empire are to the number of four thousand four hundred and two, and divided into two classes, civil and mihi. tary.,The number of inhabitants in this kingdom is almost incredible; a grave author computes the number of families at eleven million five hundred two thousand eight hundred and seventy-two, with. out including in this number, beggars, manda lines in employment, soldiers, batchelors, licentia. ages, doors, mandarines above age, all-persons that live on the rivers, bonzes, eunuchs, and all those of the blood royal; because those only are polled, who till the land, or pay taxes to the king. There are in the empire, according to the same au thor, fifty-nine million seven hundred and eighty. eight thousand three hundred and sixty-four men; nay, same make them three times the number that-there are in all Europe. They reckon in the king dom three thousand six hundred and thirty-fix men, renowned and illustrious for their virtue, learning, valour, and other remarkable qualities; there are a hundred and eighty five mausoleums, famous for structure and riches; four hundred and eighty idol temples of renown, and much retorted to, on account of their majesty and wealth, and for the pretended miracles wrought at them. The famous ancient statues are to the number of two thousand and ninety-nine, besides paintings and other celebrated works of that nature; one thou-sand
sand one-hundred and fifty-nine towers, triumphal arches and notable monuments, in honour of kings and men of renown; two hundred and seventy two libraries well adorned and stored with books; the great rivers and fountains of note for hot and medicinal waters, are one thousand four hundred and seventy-two. There are also two thousand and ninth-nine mountains rendered fruitful by their many springs, and singular for pasture and the ex excellent minerals they produce. Their schools and public flruaures erected in honour of Confucius, are as many as their cities. And to conclude, there are in the empire two hundred and thirty-one fa. nous bridges china deserves great commendation for its ex excellent government; of the three sets of religion followed there, that of the learned is the first and ancients, and its principal end is the good go government of the kingdom, upon which subject, they have wrote a great number of books. The mandarines of the empire are divided into nine classes, and every class into nine degrees; this distension is a mere title of honour conferred upon them by the emperors, without any regard to their employments. The knowledge, distinction, and subordination of there orders are so perfect, the submission and veneration of the inferior tother superior, and the authority of the latter over the others so great, and, in short, the king's power over them all is so absolute, that there is nothing to com pare to it in our governments, either civil or eccles fiaflical.,The mandarines of the first class, are counsel. lors of his majesty's council of slate, which is the greatest honour and dignity a learned man can rise to in the empire. They have several honourable titles, and in the royal palace, there are several halls for them of a stately structure. This is these z supreme
supreme council or court in the whole kingdom, and kept in the palace on the left hand of the fu prime chamber, as the mols honourable place; the Chinese giving the chief honour to the left side. This court is composed of two other ranks of mandarines, besides the first already mentioned; they have it in charge to peruse, examine, and judge of all petitions presented to his majeflyby the six great. courts, upon all the most important affairs of the kingdom. When they are come to a resolution, they present it to the emperor in writing, who either confirms or cancels it, as he thinks fit besides this sovereign court or council, there are eleven other great courts, among which the emperor of China divided all the affairs of his empire two thousand years before Christ; and the same continue still. Six of them belong to the learned mandarines, and five of them to the military. The power of there courts was extraordinary great and unlimited, so that from them, ore disturbance to the state might be dreaded; therefore the wisdom of the Chinese emperors has ol regulated their business, that no one of them can determine any affair committed to it, without the concurrence of the other. Each of these courts has a supervisor or examiner, who examines a:i that is transacted, and if he finds: any error, presently acquaints the emperor with it. In China, the men are called mad dogs, because they are continually biting by the mischief they do. These six courts are seated according to their dignity, near the imperial palace on the east fd;, the emperor daily providing dinner for all there thai attend, that business may be dispatched with mon expedition did the mandarines in trials and decisions de their duty according to the laws or the king's design
sign, China would be the happiest country in the world, and the bed governed. But, as great ob servers as they are of outward formalities, they are inwardly no less malicious, hypocritical, and cruel. The business of the first of these six courts, is to furnish all the kingdom with mandarines, and to examine their merits and demerits, to represent them to the king,'that they may be preferred to better posts or put back into meaner, as a reward or punishment, The second court is the king's great treasury or court of exchequer. It has the management of all the treasures, revenues, and taxes; as also of the expences. It keeps the rolls or musters, taken very exactly every year, of all the families, houses, of all the men, of the fur keys of the land and its taxes, and of all the customs The third court has the inflexion into ceremonies, rites, sciences, and arts; it has the charge of the emperor's music, of judging of the titles and honours the emperor will bestow on per sons of merit, of the temples, and of the sacrifices the emperor offers to the fun, moon, heaven, earth, and to his ancestors. It has full power over arts and mechanics, and in fine, over all the religions professed in the empire. The fourth Sovereign court has the direction of war and military affairs through the whole kingdom. It chuses and prefers all officers, distributes them in the army, frontiers, and garrisons, and all parts of China. The fifth sovereign court is the criminal court of all the em pire. It has authority to punish all crimes accord ing to the laws of the empire. The sixth and last is called the court of public works: it has the care of building and repairing the royal palaces, the kings tombs, and the public temples; it looks after the towers, bridges, and all other necessary works to make the rivers navigable, and the roads fit for travelling. These six courts have under 3 them
them forty-four inferior courts, which have all their palaces, within the precincts of the great one they depend on; with all necessary chambers and ha ;s.,BeiEdes there six supreme courts, there are many c:o rs recent at Peking, the chief of which are, first the court called Hanlin-Iven, that is, a grave fiucifr.ing with learning and sciences. This court cr:tair.s a great number of learned mandarines of pregnant wits, divided into five classes, and mak ing five courts ; the members of which are teachers and preceptors of the prince m ho is to succeed in the empire, whom they infirm in virtue and learn. ing, according to his age. They write all the transactions ar court or in the empire, which deserve to be transmitted to posterity. They compose the general history of the kingdom; and they are properly the king's men of learning whom he chutes to be count. fel lors another court, called Guerku-Kien, is the royal school cf all the empire, which has care of all those batchelors and students to whom the emperor has granted some privilege to make them equal to batche'ors.,A.no:her court called Cotao, is appointed to tell the emperor what faults he commits in government; and they are so bold in this particular, that they often expose themselves to the hazard of banishment or death, in telling their prince the truth, either by way of memorial or by word of mouth; of which there are many examples in the Chinese histories And it has happened that kings have mended their faults, and generously rewarded those that reprove them besides there courts already mentioned, each province has a sovereign court on which all th, others depend: the president has the title of vice roy it belongs to him to govern both in peace ant,war
war, and give the emperor and six sovereign courts an account of all things of note. Some vice-boys have the government of two, three, or four pro vices, especially on the frontiers of Tartary. Be sides the vice-roy, there is in every province, a visitor and another officer of great note, who has the immediate command of a11 the troops in the province. 'there is likewise no metropolitan city without its civil and criminal court, which acts in the same affairs as the six sovereign courts at Peking Every province is divided into territories, and each territory has a mandarine, who is, as it vere, a visitor or inspector of all that is well or ill done within his ditlri&. It is his duty to cause the governors of cities and towns to pay in the emperor duties puntually.,The number of learned mandarines throughout the empire is thirteen thousand six hundred and forty-seven, and that of the martial eighteen thou sand five hundred and twenty, in all thirty-two thousand one hundred and sixty-seven. The distribution of whose employments is so proper, that it seems the legislators omi ted nothing that was ne cesare; and foresaw all the inconveniencies that might happen. All the mandarines here mentioned, have their employments for three years, which be ing expired, they rise to others better; none of them has servants or officers of their own, but when they come to the place of their government, must receive those that are offered and maintained by the public, that there may be to confidents, through whose means, presents might be received, or jus time sold. When a mandarine's father or mother dee, he must resign his employ to mourn three years, sleeping for a long time upon a little tfraw by the tomb, eating for rome months nothing but rice boiled in water, and wearing for the first yeare 4 a gara
garment of sack-cloth; which delightful custom the emperors themselves observes H A P. XX. Of the Chiefs language; of their ingenuity in the libera! arts; cf their civility, politeness, funerals, ceremonies, ad o;hzr cto/lms ; of their habit and 'ea-pens ; of the great wealth and plenty of the em. pire; a';d of the means by which the Tartars posset tbh mflves of it.,H E Chinese language differs from all others in the world, and has none to compare to it for the antiquity of its writing. They have not, like other nations, an alphabet of a few characters, of which to compose words, but every letter with them expresses a whole word. Another thing won tearful in their tongue, is that their words are all inoiio'!ldbles, and are not originally above three hundred and twenty ; but considered with their ac cents they are copious enough to express all their meaning; for which purpose in writing, they use no lets than fifty-four thousand four hundred and fine characters. In the opinion of the missionaries it is the easiest to learn of all the languages in the part, which appears probable when we con finer that they who go into China, with only two years application, preach, hear confessions, and write in that language as if it were natural to them, though they go into those parts well advanced in years. No kingdom in the world is so full of universities as China; in there, there are above ninety thousand students, ten thousand licentiates, whereof six or seven thousand meet every three years at Peking, where, after revere examination,,three
three hundred and sixty-five are admitted to the dceree of doctors the Chinese chronicles begin about two hun died years after the flood, and 'are continued to this time by a succession of authors. They have abundance of books of moral philosophy, others that treats of nature, its properties, and accidents, several others of the mathematics, and concerning the art of war, most ingenious and entertaining ro dances, infinite volumes of history, and examples of the obedience of children towards 'their parents, of the fidelity of fubjeAs towards their king, of husbandry, of fine speeches, of delightful poems, of tragedies, of comedies, and upon an infinity of other subjects too tedious to relate but there are five books they chiefly regard and hold in as great veneration as we do the holy scrip ture. The first of them is called the Chronicle of the five ancient kings; the second is the Ritual, and contains most of the laws, customs, and ce ceremonies of the empire; the third is the book of verses, romances, and poems; the fourth book was composed by Confucius, and contains the history of his native country in the nature of annals, in which he represents to the life, the actions of virtuous and wicked princes; the fifth, which is the most an cent, and supposed to be wrote by Fohi, deserves to be read and valued for the excellent sentences and moral precepts it contains. They have one book more .of equal authority with these others, which is an extract or epitome of the other five the wit of the Chinese is no less wonderful and sublime in mechanic arts, than it is in sciences; but as a mean price is no way agreeable to curious workmanship, all their study is to make their work look fine, because the buyers are very sparing in their expenses but if the reward were suitable take 5 - the
the labour, they would do wonders. Their writ ing is from the right hand to the left, and the lines do not go across, but from the top of the leaf to the bottom. Their manner of printing is as follows; the composition being writ out in fair characters, the paper, which is extraordinary thin and transparent, is passed on a board of pear-tree or apple-tree, as smooth as possible may be, with the writing next the board, that when-printed, the letters may come right again-then the characters are cut with a small tool or pen-knife, so that their lines may rise, and the wood about them be lower than they the nobility of China is of two kinds, namely, that of the sword, and of the gown: that of the sword continues hereditary from father to son, while the same family that raised it, continues upon the throne; bt t when a new family succeeds, then they are all put to death, and new ones are raised, as happened about a century ago. That acquired by the gown, continues no longer than during the life of the possessor, the sons and grandsons of the Chinese donors being frequently very poor, and forced to be retailers or artificers, or else by be ing scholars to stand candidates for the same ho. hours their predecessors enjoyed. However, there frill flourishes a family, which has not-only pre served its honour for above twenty-two ages, but is at present equally honoured by the great men and commonalty ; so that it may truly be account ed the anatieinea family in the world. It is the fa mile tf Confucius, who lived under the third im peril family, five hundred and fifty-one years before the birth of Christ. The ancient kings gave the race of Confucius the title of Que-cum, which is forgetting like a duke, and they continue like so reigns, free from all taxes in the province of,Xantung,
Xarnuig, and city of Kio-feu, where he was born many volumes might be filled with the Chinese civilities and ceremonies. They have a book which contains above three thousand, and it is-wonders ful to see how exaaly they observe them. At all entertainments, the mailer of the house, though he be a great lord, and of more eminent quality than any of the guess, yet gives the upper hand to his elders; there give it to them that come from far off; and all of them to strangers. They also out do all other countries in their care of making a good ap appearance, for there is no man so poor, but is de gently and neatly clad. The women are so modest and reserved, that there virtues seem to be born with them; they live in perpetual retiredness, ne ver uncover their hands, and if they are obliged to give any thing to their brothers or kindred, they hold it with their hand covered with the sleeve the Chinese women think it a beauty; and value themselves upon little feet; and to acquire this beauty, they have their feet wrapped up when they are new born, and bound so hard, that they become almost Cripples: though this be the chief beauty they boast of, yet they do not expose or shew it, for modesty will not permit them to wear such short coats as to discover any part of their shoes. Their features and complexion are not inferior to the European wornen, and tho' the have small eyes lying deep, and flat notes, yet they do not look amiss. This their retired life is the ;cause that they marry, if we may so call it, blindfold, for the bride and bridegroom never see one anchor till the day she is brought to his house; and they are often contrasted and promised in the cradle, being generally much of an age.' The woman's portion is no other than her person, and that is enough, if the is virtuous. By the laws ose 6 the
the kingdom, no man may marry a woman of his own family, though the kindred be never so remote. The Tartars do not buy their wives, but receive portions, though very inconsiderable; when any one marries his daughter to his equal, the portion is not above eighty cows, eighty horses, and eighty garments the outward appearance of the Chinese is very grave and modest: to turn the head suddenly about, would look among them as if a man's brain were light; oaths, or words that have any table of im modesty, are never heard ; to make love or play the gallant, are things so far from being used, that they have no words to express them. It is a re civet maxim among them, that to draw a sword against one another, is not the part of men; and that war is nothing but a wildness reduced to rules, which the savage beasts have not. They are very ingenious and sharp witted, and the poor com mnonalty exceed belief, in cunning and artifice, taught them by nature to get their living. If they do not like one profession, at the year's end they take to another, being handy at every thing; they are very expert at games, such as cards, dice, chess, tables the laws of the empire are so revere to oblige parents to give their children good education, that if it happens any of them commits a crime, and cannot be taken, the magistrates secures the father, and bastinadoes him for not teaching his ion good manners. The government also takes care of the ceconomy of families for the public good. They are much added to superstition and auguries: they lock upon it as a very ill omen to have churches erected to the true God, in the country or villages, as fearing Come of the people should die upon it, No one is permitted to build his house,. higher
higher than his neighbour's, .for fear of taking away his good for tune before the Tartars ruled the Chinese, they wore their hair long, winding it about on their poll; but since the Tartars govern, they have been all commanded to cut it off upon pain of death, and to go after the Tartar fashion with their heads laved; their large. garments with wide sleeves, are also forbidden, to bring up the Tartar fashion, which the Chinese do highly resent. Their flirt is laced under the right arm, on the sides, or un der the throat; it reaches down half way'the leg, with long narrow sleeves over it; they wear wide breeches down to their heels; the hose they gene rally wear are of coarse silk. The nobility add to the shirt a long black garment, which when but toned from under the right arm to the feet, is girt with a silver ribbon ; over this, they wear a cloak with wide sleeves, buttoned upon the breast, but the learned have theirs long, contrary to the Tar tars, who use it very shorten war, the Chinese carry bows and arrows, and a long firmiter; fire-arms are used but little, yet muskets begin to be brought in play by the em pero's order. Though'cannon had been long found out in China, yet it was not well cast nor proportioned for which reason the emperor had it all new cast, under the direction of F. Veriest, a Fleming of the society of Jesus. The Chinese soldiery consists of horse divided under eight standards each of ten thousand men, and to every stand ard belongs a general. This profession descends fr-m father to son, for the emperor does not only allow them competent pay according to the fiction, but also rice for the whole family, without sparing, because all is furnished by the provinces, which pay it as a tribute.,Though
Though in China gold be plentiful and very good, yet they do not use it as money, but'pafs it by weight as a commodity; the same happens with the silver brought in by strangers, especially that which comes from America, by means of the Spa. niards; in this they pay the emperor's taxes, in whose treasury it remains buried, and in those of the rich men of the empire; for the Chinese stand in need of nothing from abroad among the Chinese, the being well buried is a thing on which the happiness of the dead, and of their posterity seems to depend. Hence it is that, never tru'inng to their own children, every man vwhill living, and in health, provides himself with two things more particularly; these are, a coffin to be put into when dead, 2nd a lucky place to lay it in. The coffin muff not be narrow, but large and stately, and all the outside of it varnished, carved, and adorned with gold :if they are able) bellowing upon it what would cost a thousand crowns. The fortunate place is generally appointed by the fortune tellers, about the bottom of rome mountain; for no man may be buried within the city.,As soon as the f-ther is dead, the Ton in a raging manner, tears down the curtains of the bed, and with them covers the body, then he falls down with his hair loose, and soon after sends his ser: wants to the kindred and friend, giving them no time in writing that he has lost his father: to re active them, the greatest room is put into mourn ing, with mats or white hempen cloth, for that is the colour for their-mourning. The body mean while, being wrapt up in fine thin silk, is put into the coffin, which is afterwards close shut, the chinks stepped up with pitch, and the outside al adorned with stars of gold. Then placing it al the upper end cf the room, the son stands by it,clas
clad in a doleful manner in plain hempen cloth, with a cap of the same, his feet wrapped in straw,. coarse cotton cloaths about his ears, and two girdles of thick rope about his body, the ends hanging down to the ground: this doleful appearance is the least part of his mourning; for the first night he lies close by the coffin upon straw, which is his only bed for several months; all dainties are banished his table, particularly flesh, and he is obliged to continue the appearance of mourning for three years navigation, and plenty of all sorts of commodities found in a kingdom, are certainly the two sources of, trade. China has these two in such a degree, that no kingdom can equal, much less ex need it. The quantity of gold is so great in all its provinces, that instead of being converted into coin, it is made a commodity. As for silver, their avarice and industry in gathering of it, are as an cent as the empire; and therefore the quantity they have gathered muss be prodigious, for what comes once into the country can never go out again, the laws that prohibit it are so severe. There are in this kingdom, abundance of copper, iron, and tin mines, and of several other metals; here like wise is the best silk in the world, and in such plenty, that the ancients called China the kingdom of silk: it is of two sorts, the natural and the ar artificial; the natural is made by worms in the fields and upon trees, which they gather and spin, but it is not so good as the artificial, when they feed the worms 'in the house for forty days upon mule berry-leaves.,Their wax is the fines and'whitcfi that may be: it is of two kinds, that from the bees, and another kind produced from certain large trees in a wonderful manner; a certain flinging inset of the bigness of a flea, lays its eggs on these trees,,which,'3
which afterwards producing worms, they gnaw, pierce, and bore to the very pith, and convert their nourishment into wax as white as snow, which they drive out to the mouth of the hole; where it re mains congealed in drops by the wind and cold cotton is very plentiful in this kingdom, for which reason they make but very little use of wool, unless for blankets for beds ; and some of the poorer sort cover themselves with the skin and wool together in the winter time, while the rich are clad in fines furs. As for flesh, fish, fruit, and other provisions, they have all those forts-we have in Europe, and many more that we have not; and the plenty appears by the small price they bear. There are several sorts peculiar to the country, but chiefly we shall men tion the herb tea, which is the most valued drink among the Chinese, as chocolate is among the Spa niards; there being no visit where they do not use a great quantity of it. Though it has the name of an herb, yet the leaves are gathered from little trees, the belt growing in the province of Chinking in summer, they bear a flower of an agree able smell, but the leaves must be carefully gather. ed in winter. First they are a little heated in a copper caldron over a gentle fire; then they are laid upon a fine mat, and turned with the hands; then they are set over the fire again, till they are thorough dry; and lately, they are put into leaden vessels that they may not evaporate, but be pre served from moisture. The infusion is agreeable and wholesome when the leaves make it green; but there is such difference of its virtue, and such va piety, that there is fume of it sold for ten pence the pound, and some for ten shillings there is also rhubarb in China; it grows in th( moist places, and upon a sort of reddish ground the leaves are generally two spans long, downs and narrow at bottom; the fen rites a foot an,,bear
)ears flowers like large violets; the root is some times three feet long and as thick as a man's arm; when fresh it is bitter. in the highest degree. They have likewise abundance of flowers and very beau tissue; those peculiar to the country are more for shew than smell, and they set them between the rows of bricks in their courts, to make fine walks china, upon account of its great extent, enjoys all the several climates without the barbarity of the one extreme, or the too much luxury of the other. It is not all plain nor all mountainous, but is every where so fully cultivated, that it looks like one con tinged garden; some even of the high mountains are most delightful to behold at a defiance, being all cut as it were in terraces from the bottom to the top. As for plains, there are rome so large, that. to shew their extent it is enough to say, there is one that reaches from Nanking to Peking, for several hundred miles, without one foot of land either. barren by nature, or for want of improvement; and it is so fruitful naturally, that there are two harvests in a year, and whilst they reap, they sow again the air in China is generally very healthy, and their seasons regular; at Peking the winter lasts longer than is usual, in bare forty degrees of latitude What by the extremity of the cold and the nature of the. water, from the middle of Novem ber, the ice is so thick and strong on the livers and lakes, that it bears horses and carts, and does not thaw till after February. In the southern parts, there blows such a pestilential wind, that it desirous very many having given an account of the climate, govern ment, and customs of China, we shall now relate how the eastern Tartars possessed themselves of this great empire. During the reign of the family Mim, the last of the Chinese race, the strength of,the
the empire being employed in securing the frontiers next to Tartary; eight captains of robbers took the field, ard in as shorts time railed eight armies; there contending among themselves for the love., reign, reduced themselves to two, who separated, the one taking the rout of the northern provinces, and the other of the southern. The emperor's army march aging ai those that attacked the northern was defeated, and the city they came to relieve destroyed by an inundation of a river, by which three hundred thousand souls perished Encouraged by this success, Li, the captain of the robbers, assumed the title of emperor, and marched for Peking with an army of three hundred thousand men. Having debauched many of the people to his interest, the gates were thrown open, though there was in the city a garrison of seventy thousand men. The emperor, not knowing of any thing that had happened, was then mortifying himself with fasting among his bonzes, but understanding by the sudden approach of the enemy that he was betrayed, he retired into his garden and hanged himself, at the age of thirty-fix; and with him the empire and all the family, to the number of eighty thousand, all perished by degrees.,Li, having thus secured the capital city, marched against the Chinese general, who still opposed him with an army of sixty thousand men. This ge neral, to revenge his own injuries, and the emperor death, sent a solemn embassy to the Tartar prince, inviting him to march with his army against the usurper. The Tartar flew, rather than marched, with sixty thousand men into China, with which he soon defeated the usurper Li, but died before he had established peace, leaving a son under age, under the tuition of his brother. The Chinese were in' hopes that the Tartars, loaded with booty, would return home, but were soon,undeceived
undeceived; for they coming to Peking in 1643, refused to go any farther, saying, the empire was due to their valour: thus the infant, but six years of age, entered the city in triumph, being received' with the applause of the people, who placing him on the throne, saluted him emperor the Tartars having subdued the northern pro vices, marched to relieve the southern, and in a few years having defeated all the captains of rob boers, they brought the whole empire under their subjection; and to secure their possession, and gain the love of the people, they maintained the former laws, statutes,. and'politics of the Chinese, alter ing but very little, and giving great encouragement to the learned men.,The cold at Peking being now too sharp for Gemelli, he resolved to leave that place; and on Saturday the Igth of November, he went to F. Grimaldi, to desire him to procure three mules for his journey. Next day he took leave of all the fathers, and received a pars from F. Grimaldi, to prevent any one from molesting him on his return from court. Having agreed with the muleteer, and given him all the hire of the three mules (for in China they will be paid before-hand) he set out on Tuesday the 22d in the afternoon, and passed thro' the town of Lupuxan, which has a good wall, and two gates plated with iron; near it they passed. over a stately stone bridge, half a mile long, and adorned every two paces with handsome little tone lions on both sides. Here they found a Tartar, attended by a footman and a page, and several servants, going the same road, so that afterwards they travelled together. But having travelled the same road on hi; journey to court, whatever is most remarkable in it was mentioned before, only the presence of the Tartar made the inn keeper more observant to serve them well, and they hid,plenty
plenty of good provisions very cheap, a hare cod. ing only three half-pence, and pheasant six-pence,,After travelling thirty-four days, they came on Sunday the 25th of December to Nanchiantu, from whence the passage to the Macao is by water. Ge mell hoping to keep his Christmas chearfully with the catholics of this-place, left his mules, and passing the river in a boat, took up his quarters in the house of the Jesuits, but the superior being still at Canton, he spent the day alone and melancholy. Next day having hired a boat to carry him to Nanganfu for about four ducats, he set out before noon, and arrived there on Wednesday the With of January, 1697. Sunday the j5th, after dinner, he went aboard another boat for Canton, two women and five men rowing him along; and being now come into the southern latitudes, he felt the heat very excessive. Continuing his voyage for nine days, he arrived at Canton on Tuesday the 24th, having travelled by land and water from Peking, about fourteen hundred miles gemelli came to Canton with a resolution of go ing to Emuv in the province of Fokien, and there embarking for Manila; but finding the loading of Canton already gone, and hearing there was a Ma nile flip at Macao, he changed his mind, having an offer of a passage in that flip with three Spa niards who belonged to it, and who had come to Canton to lay out an hundred and eighty thou sand pieces of eight for Chinese merchandise. They were amazed at his boldness in coming to Canton without a pass, and then going on to Peking, where as the customer would not allow them to proceed till they had given him thirty pieces of eight for a passant this time preparations were making for the Chinese festival of the new year, which always begins with the new moon that falls next to the,51l
5th of February, and on that day, according to them, the fun enters a sign they call the Resurrection of the Spring. They reckon twelve lunar months, one of twenty-eight days, and the other of thirty; and every fifth year they make an in tercalary month, adding all the days lost in the former, so that they come even with the fun's course. The weeks they divide like us, according to the number of the planets; they reckon the day from midnight to midnight, dividing it into twelve equal parts, each of which are subdivided into an hundred parts. At this time their new year fell out on the 3d of February, and several days before the courts and shops were all shut up, to give way to the festival. On the last night of the old year; in all houses, the sons kneel before their fathers, the younger brothers before the elder, the servants be fore their mailers, touching the ground with their heads, and performing the other ceremonies of the country. The women do the same among them selves; but before they require this duty of their children, the masters of the families pay it to their ancestors, touching the ground three times before their pictures. In the morning of the new year, long before day, the most superstitious of them went to those pagoda they had a devotion for, to burn sweets before the idols; after which they use to pay visits to their friends, which is sufficiently performed by leaving it written on a piece of red paper, that they were there to wait on them.,A few days after came on the festival of the Lanterns, which is the most sumptuous among the Chinese: the original of this festival is-ulcers tain, but it is celebrated by rich and poor with great expence. In every ward or quarter of the city some figure of their idols .as let up, about which were several persons disguised, with pre prosperous habits and masks; in these dresses they,went
went about the town upon ashes or a-foot, with a long procession before them of hawthorns on long poles. The hawthorns were in the form of several creatures, and well lighted within with several lamps; al! this was attended with noisy ir. arguments of brass and drums. The chief part of this solemnity is to be seen in the pagcds and the palaces of great lords, where there are hawthorns that colt fifteen or twenty pistoles, and some no less than two or three hundred crowns. They are hung up in the fate liest halls, some of them being twenty cubits square, and illuminated within by a vast number of lamps and candles, whose lights sets off their paintings, and the smoke gives motion to the figures, which with wonderful art run round, leap, and go up and down within the lanthorn. There are to be seen horses galloping, carts drawn, men at work, ships under sail, armies marching, &c.,Gemelli being resolved to go for Manila, aboard the Spanish vessel then riding at Macao, he accord singly ordered his affairs for to leave Canton. Sa saturday the 3d of March, setting out in a large boat, they arrived at Macao three days after, about noon, where waiting a month for the silks which the Spaniards had brought to Canton, he in the mean time provided the necessaries for the voyages H AP
CHAP. XXI. che author's. voyage from Mecca to the Philippine,flands, with a description of theft islands, an ac count of their firs inhabitants, their customs and manners, and of the fruits and trees produced in that climate; an account of the Spanish government at Manila, and of the revenues these islands yield to the king of Spain. T was now the 7th of April, when the captain of the flip being ready to sail, gave a noble farewel feast to his friends, at which Gemelli was present. Next day, being delivered from the troublesome customhouse officers, after dinner, when the tide served, they weighed anchor, and having saluted the last sort with five or six guns, they held on their way. . That night there came up a bark with some bales of silk for the captain, according to his orders, he chusing this method of loading his vessel, that he might be free from the payment of the customs. After all the silks were got aboard, they proceeded in their voyage, and arrived at Manila on Tuesday the 8th of May. Gemelli landed, and took up his lodging with the rector of the college, but was no sooner ashore but he found an adjutant sent by the governor, who told him, he expected him at his palace. He went thither immediately, and was courteously received, and treated with sweetmeats, and the promise of any thing he should stand in need of.,Manila is seated in fourteen degrees and forty minutes of north latitude; for this reason the days and nights never vary above an hour winter and summer, but it is excessive hot, being under the torrid zone. It stands upon a point of land be-twixt
twixt the sea and a river that runs out of the lake; it has six gates, and the wall next the river is strengthened with five little towers with iron guns; but on the side next the land is a noble bulwark. The palaces in this place, though they be allow timber above the firs floor, yet are beautiful to be. hold for their handsome galleries; the streets are broad, but frequent earthquakes have spoiled their uniformity, several houses' and palaces being over. thrown. The number of souls in Manila are sup. posed to be about three thousand, but of such dis. ferment mixtures, as to qualities. and colour, that they are distinguished by several strange names. The women here dress in the Spanifh habit; but the common sort have no need of taylors, for a piece of Indian fluff, wrapt about their middle, and hanging down, serves for a petticoat, and another from the waist upwards for a waistcoat. The legs and feet stand in no need of shoes, by reason of the heat. Though Manila itself be small, vet if we include its suburbs, it will appear large; for near one of the gates is the habitation of the Chinese merchants: here are found all arts and trades, so that all the citizens are worth runs through their hands, through the fault of the Spaniards and Indians. who apply themselves to nothing. The Spaniards keep thefeChinefe very much under, not suffering them to be in Christian houses at night. and obliging them to be without light in their houses and shops. Over the bridge that is on the river are other suburbs, to the number of fifteen, inhabited by Indians, Talis, and other nations, un der the government of an alcade. In the space between these hamlets, on both sides of the river, as far as the lake of Bah, there are gardens, farms, and country-houses. In this city are four monasteries and a college of Jesuits, where were about forty collegians studying humanity, philosophers" - and 4
and divinity. The cathedral is large, but not well adorned within; the quire is near the great gate; where the archbishop sits,. whose revenue is sixty thousand pieces of eight a year the city Manila is the seat of government for all the Philippine islands, which though very remote from Europe, and from his catholic majesty's court, to whom they are subject, yet are excellently go versed. For spirituals, there is an archbishop at Manila chosen by the king. As for the inquisition, there is a commissary appointed by that court-at Mexico. For the temporal government there is a governor, with the title of captain-general, whose authority lasts eight years, and four judges and a solicitor for life. This court does not only receive appeals from the common magistrates of the city, but from all the islands. ' he. governor's salary is thirteen thousand three. hundred pieces'of eighth and were not the Philippine islands so remote, it would be coveted by.the chief grandees, because his government is unlimited,. the jurisdiction larger the prerogatives not to unparalleled, the profit un known, and the honour greater than that of vice roy of the Indies.,This grandeur and power is somewhat eclipsed by a dreadful trial they muss go through when: they get a successor: the accusers do not then examine the heinousness of offences, but the sums received in eight years; punishing the purse instead of the person. They have sixty days allowed them, 'after proclamation made through the provinces, to bring in their complaints, and thirty days to prosecute be fore the judge, who is generally the successor in the government, by special commission from:the king and his supreme council of the Indies; therefore the judge having received .all informations, without deciding any thing, returns all the proceedings to court. The four judges are subjea to the fame,VOL. VII. F trial,
trial, which is sometimes so rigorous, that they pro. need to imprisonment, without rerpea to the great res of the post possessed by the person. In Short, since the islands were conquered, but two of the governors have returned to Spain, all of them ha wing either broke their hearts at their trial, or died with hardships by the way. It is true, the council of the Indies has moderated this rigor, ordering that the governors be not imprisoned, but that the informations being taken, they be sent into Spain.,The many islands depending upon the govern. ment of Manila were called Philippines inn 543, by the general Luis Lopez de Villa Lobos, in ho. your to prince Philip then heir to the crown of Spain. What their antient name was is uncertain; yet some affirm they were called islands of Zones, all of them taking their name from the bigger, which is Manila or Luzon; others call them Ma silas, a name known ever since Ptolemy, as some will have it. A flip coming from America to these Philippines, when the makes land, must of necessity see one of the (our islands of Mindanao, Leyte, Ibabao, and Manila, because they front that vast ocean for above six hundred miles, lying in a encircle: betides these four already named, there are ux others, large and populous; these being the ten most remarkable islands said to have been mentioned by Ptolemy. Among these ten there are the same number of small ones, all peopled; and betides a great many smaller, partly inhabited, and partly deCart.,All there islands are in the torrid zone, between the equinoctial and the tropic of Cancer. When the Spaniards first came to Manila they found three sorts of people; on the sea-coals there lived and used Malay-Moors, come, as they said, from Borneo others polTTil'ed the low countries, and were cales' Bihy-Negrillos; these are mere barbarians,,and
and feed upon such fruit and roots as the noun - pains afford, and upon all they can kill, even to monkies, snakes, and rats. Except the Malays, the other inhabitants fill possess the greater part of there islands, the king of Spain not having one man in ten that owns his government; and even in the island of Manila there is no landing for fifty leagues along the shore for fear of the blacks, who are molt inveterate enemies to the Europeans.,The island Manila, together with some smaller ones adjacent, is divided into several provinces, and the Indian inhabitants who are tributary pay taxes in rice and gold, and are obliged to sell wood in the mountains, for building the king's great ships. The product of the island is some gold, abundance of wax, civet, cotton, sulphur, wild cinna mon, coco, rice even' on the mountains, good horses, cows, buffaloes, deer, and wild boars. The many islands in the Archipelago make the channel for sailing very narrow, and the currents so firing, that sometimes they will make the largest ships turn round, and carry them out of their course. Not far from Manila is Caput, three leagues in compass, the soil fruitful, pleasant, and commodious for the Indians. Eight leagues north-west from the mouth of the freight is Ticao, an island eight leagues in compass, inhabited by Indians. Four leagues-weft of Ticao is Burin, five miles in compass; its inhabitants are counted in the parish of Masbate, another island south of it, and not far distant from Ticao; it is thirty leagues in com pass, and eight in breadth, inhabited by about two hundred and fifty Indian families, which pay tribute in wax, salt, and civet. Here are such rich gold mines, that the mate of the gallon aboard cf which Gemelli went over, going ashore to one of them, in a very short time dug out an ounce ant a quarter of pure gold. Fifteen leagues from,F 2 Manila
Manila is the island of Martinique; it is eighteen leagues in compass, high, and abounding in coco and other fruit-trees. Minor is about eight leagues from Manila, and five from Martinique; this island is seventy leagues in compass, the land here is high and mountainous, abounding in coco and all fits of fruit-trees, but rice grows only in some parts: in Minor and Lucan, another small island five leaves in compass, they reckon seven. teen hundred inhabitants who pay tribute. Beyond Lucan northwards there is no island of note, but west of it are the Calamine. a province made up of seventeen islands all subdued. Beyond the Calamine, in sight of the high mountains of M1indora, are the five islands of Cuyo, not far di. fiant from one another; in them are about five hun. died tributary families. Next is the island of Pa nay, an hundred leagues in compass, containing about sixteen thousand three hundred and sixty one tributary Indians, and fourteen parishes belong, ing to the fathers of St. Augustine. Between the two great islands of Manila and Mindanao is shift Sana, one hundred and thirty leagues in compass, and inhabited by about five hundred families. It is mountainous and craggy, but fruitful in the few plains there are; there grows in it a plant of a pro. vicious virtue for curing many diseases; for which at first the Dutch gave double its weight in gold. The next island is Leyte, ninety miles in compass, and well peopled on the east side, by reason of the fruitful plains, which yield a hundred and sometimes two hundred for one. The people are under the care of the fathers of the society, and have two good customs, the one to entertain one another mutually when they travel, the other, never to alter the price of provisions upon any death. The third island under the care of the fathers of the society is Bo hl, about forty leagues in compass; when the,Spaniards
Spaniards first conquered it, there were three thou sand-families of warlike people in it, but since Manila is become the seat of government, Zebu has decayed; but several other smaller islands in its neighbourhood are subjea to it.,In all the islands here mentioned there are a- bout two hundred and fifty thousand Spaniards and Indians subject goethe crown of Spain, though scarce the twelfth part of the inhabitants be con queried. Married men are taxed ten reals, others from eighteen to sixty years are rated at five reals; likewise maids from twenty-four to sixty pay the same. The king's revenue is not quite four hundred thousand pieces of eight; which nor being sufficient for the pay of four thousand fol tiers, and the extravagant salaries of ministers, he lays out two hundred and eighty thousand that come from New Spain.,These island are rich in pearls, excellent am berries, whereof there was once a piece found weighing one hundred pounds; cotton, and choice civet; but gold is the chief and greatest treasure, for in the mountains are rich mines, and the rivers. have it mixed in their land : in all there is to the value of two hundred thousand pieces of eight a- year gathered without the help-of fire. As for Manila, the Author of nature placed it so equally between the wealthy kingdoms of the east and wee, that it may be accounted one of the greatest places of trade in the world. Here are found the silver of New Spain and Peru; for the (hip that returns from Acapulco is loaded with silver for the west, the diamonds of Golconda, the cinna mon of Ceylon, the pearls and rich carpets of Per fia, and the curious workmanship of China.,The air in the Philippine islands is hot and nroift; the heat is not so violent as in the dog-days in Italy, but more troublesome by reason of the,F 3 sweat
sweat and weakness it causes. The dampness is greater, because the land is generally watered with rise-s, lakes, and pools, and there fall great rains the moi part of the year. It is-wonderful to ob serve, that first it rains and lightens, and the thun. der is heard after the rain is over. It is further to be observed, that in this climate no lice or other vermin bread upon Europeans, tho' they wear dirty shirts federal months; but it is otherwise with the Indians who have great fore. The great dews that fall in fair weather contributing towards making the country unhealthy; for it is filch, that shake. ing a tree it sometimes falls like rain; this does no harm to the natives, who live to eighty or an hun. died years of age. At Manila there is no eating or sleeping without sweating; to avoid this the richer sort have their little country-houses to live at from the middle of March to the end of June: tho' the heat be violent in May, very often at night it thun ders and lightens with mighty rains. Manila is also subsist to great earthquakes, especially when they happen in dry weather. In September, 1627, there was such a terrible earthquake, that it levelled one of the greatest mountains; and by another in 1645, the third part of the city was overthrown, with the slaughter of three hundred souls, by a second the antient inhabitants of these islands received their language and characters from the Malays. In their writings they make use of three vowels, but pronounce five, and have thirteen consonants: they write upwards, beginning the first line at the bot tom cf the left side of the page; but they have almost forgot their own way of writing, and at prefer use the Spanish: as for their customs, they 12'ute one another courteously, by taking off their Heads the cloths they use for caps; but when they ret any persons of greater quality, they bow their Eddies low, clapping one or both hands on their,jaws,
jaws, and at the same time lifting up one foot witt the knee bent. The Tagalians or Bifcayans al ways speak in the third person; and when they sit down they use no chair or stool, but rest wholly upon their heels, as people do to ease themselves in the fields, and they expect to be first spoke to, that they may answer, looking upon it as ill man news to speak before their superiors the Indians are of a middle stature, well-shaped both men and women, of a purplish colour, in clinging to black; they are not so intelligent and quick as those of the East Indies, who are excel lent at any business, but particularly in trade and writing. The womens chief care and pride is to file and order their teeth, that they may grow even; they cover them with a black dye to pre serve them, and the ladies of quality adorn them with little plates of gold. No man might be clad in red that had not killed another, nor in fitiptd fluff till he had been the death of seven. On their arms they wore bracelets of gold or ivory, about their legs black cords, and on their hands abundance of rings. Besides all their garments, it is still in use among them to have their skins wrought after several manners. Their music and dancing are after the Chinese fashion; the dancing is an imitation of fighting, but all the motions are regular; the compositions in their language are pleasant and elegant enough;, but their greatest delight is cock-fighting. Bathing is so much in fashion among them, that women new delivered ife it; for this reason, their dwellings are all on the banks of rivers and lakes. Their religion is chiefly some traditions delivered from father to son, and preserved in songs, concerning the genealogy and heroic ads of their famous ancestors, by them filed gods. But they have one principal God, by them called the God Maker. They adores 4 birds
birds and beasts, the fun and moon, and not a rock, stone, promontory or river, but what they sacrifice to; nor any old tree, to which they do not pay divine honours. They tell abundance of fables concerning the creation of the world; and the first men that inhabited itt here were no kings or lords of any great note in the Archipelago; every several precinct or petty dorr.irion was called Barangai; for as the families came hither in a bark to seek dwelling-places, so they remained subject, either to the commander of the vessel, or to the head of the family, and from him took their name. The first law among them was to honour their ancestors, and especially fa ther and mother: the head of the Barangai, with some of the antient men of it, judge of all causes whatsoever. As for theft, if the faa were made cut, but the person not known, the parties ac cured had two ways of purgation; the firiftwas, one after another, to take a stone out of a baron of boiling water, which whosoever refused to do, paid the value of the thing stolen; the other was to place all the accused near any deep river, with spears in their hands, and then make them run and cast themselves into it; he that came out firs was reputed guilty, for fear of which many staid in till they were drowned their arms offensive were bows and arrows, and lances or pikes with iron heads, of several shapes, cr life of wood hardened at the fire, broad dag gers with two edges, well-shaped, and trunks thro' which they were wont to dart poisoned 'arrows. They were greatly addicted-to superstition, and if they found a snake on their cloaths they would ne ver wear them again though they were new; and the same, if an owl sat in the night on their house; and nothing was ever undertaken by them without casting lots. When any one of them dies,.not,only
only the kindred and friends, but hired people come to lament and make a dismal song; then the body being washed and perfumed, is wrapt up ir more or less silks, according to its quality; the poor were buried in a grave in their own house,. the rich in a coffin, made of one piece of precious wood, and closed so artificially that no air could get into it: others buried the dead in the fields,, and made fires in the house for many days, that the dead man might not come to take those that were: left alive.,All these islands are extremely well stored with birds and beasts. The cavan, a bird about the bulk of a hen, is remarkable for laying its eggs ins the sand, and leaving them there to be hatched There are likewise several kind of doves, and' many of the birds called falangans, about the largeness of a swallow, whose nefas are reckoned a delicious dish; There are great abundance of peacocks and birds of paradise, quails, and noun tain-cocks, There is so great a number of wild: buffaloes grazing about the plains, that a good: hunter a horseback with a spear may kill ten oi twenty in a day. The woods abound in deer,, boars, wild goats, horses, cows, monkies, civet cats, and force snakes of a prodigious bigness.,In the woods are likewise abundance of trees bear ing variety of fruit, but the soil does not agree with? European fruits, and some vines that have been, planted here never bring grapes to maturity: the trees that yield the greatest profit and pleasure are the palm-trees, of which they reckon forty several kinds. On some of the mountains of Manila thetis abundance of wild nutmeg, and in the island of Mindanao there are many cinnamon-trees. The most wonderful thing of 1ll is, that the leaves of sone trees are said to become living crea.uics, with,,F 5 w.-i'! ,.
.ins, feet, and tail. The woods, which for ages have never felt an ax, are full of bees, which furnin the natives with honey and wax. In Ma. nile ite Indian fiz is found, with leaves so long and broad, that there is no doubt but Adam might have made himself a cloak of a couple of them the molucca islands lying within the-line of the Spanish conquers, and having been formerly under the governor of Manila, while the crown of Portugal was united to that of Castile, it will be pro. per to give rome account of them. Moloch is a Ma. lay ford, derived from the Hebrew Malachi, fig lifting the chief of any thing; they are seated under the line, three hundred leagues east of Ma lace, and as much south-west of Manila: they are five in number, and lie in such order that they are always in sight of one another. The first of them is on the north side, and called Ternate, six leagues and a half in compass; in it is a burning mountain which has frequently done great mischief by its eruptions. The only produce of the island, before the Spaniards came into it, was cloves and nutmegs ; but afterwards the islanders, in hatred to the Spaniards, went about destroying all the trees. Two leagues from Ternate is the island of Isidore: it is seven leagues in compass, and a better soil, and more healthy than the other. The people are warlike, and can put to sea twenty or thirty great vessels, with six or seven thousand men. The principal commodity is clove, but at present the natives do not improve it. The third 6f these islands is Muriel or Timor, lying directly under the line, and producing cloves. The fourth island is called Machin, and has a burning mountain like that at Ternate. it visits the Dutch much cleve: they sting four sots ;:nd a factory there. Buchan is the l.ti. and greatest Iafnd, being twelve leagues,in
in compass. Here is a burning mountain, and abundance of beasts and fowl, fruit of all sorts, tobacco, and fag for common food these islands were first discovered by Ferdinand Magellan a Portuguese, who after sailing round America, and over the great South Sea, sirs discovered the islands known by the name of Ladrone or of Robbers. A few days after he fell in with the first of the Philippines, and sailing on to the island of Butuan, he landed on Saturday before Passion Sunday, in Spain called Sunday of St. Lazarus, in the year I;2r. On Friday the 26th of April, Magellan himself was killed, with some of his men, on the first attack of the island Satan; but one of his Chips called the Victory, re turned to Spain by the Cape of Good Hope, three years and some days after it had set out, with only eighteen men out of fifty-nine that sailed from the Moluccas. In 1571I the Spanish arms conquered Manila without any expence of blood, and on the 2411 of June the foundation of the city was solemn ly laid, and trade fettled with China. After the Spa niards had. fettled themselves in Manila, they'ap- plied, themselves to reduce the other islands, and every year receiving Come supplies from New Spain,. they brought most of the islands, in a, few years, under subjection to their king.,A gallon being soon to sail for New Spain, whither Gemelli was desirous to go, he desired the governor to grant him a, passage aboard it, which he very honourably did, notwithstanding there were several New Spanish merchants who were de need. Having spent a week in providing himself with necessaries, and taking leave of his-friends, he went off in a boat for Cavite, a small town on the opposite-fide of the bay where the flip lay. There sands. the arsenal and dock-yard, where two or,F 6 three
three hundred indians, brought by force, work a gallons and other large ships, of about fifty-five and sixty spans length in the keel.,C H A P. XXII. rT'e author's lIng and dangerous voyage from Manila t3 Acapulco in America ; a description of Acapulco; his johnnie from thence to Aexi-o, with an a account of MiAexici; its situation, riche, trade, number ss hbabiia;;ts, fine Lui';ilngs, &:. Some account if the anoint and modern Indians; their habit ant r;a,:er of writing. A description of the fiver mines Ã³t Pachuca. F Friday the 22d of June, the vessel having allies lading aboard, Gemelli embarked, and next day there were prayers for their good voyage: and mio, of the pilots being of opinion that the vessel was overloaded, the captain ordered that all the seamen that had two chests should put one ot them afore; for tho' the burthen of the vessel was only fifteen hundred bales, they had put aboard two thousand two hundred, besides provisions and other necessaries. On Monday. the 25th, the go. vernon caused all she bales above the flip's burthen to be unhoped; but on Wednesday the 27th, and on Thursday, eight hundred barrels of water were caR away, the bales belonging to the go vernon's friends and acquaintance being put on board again. At last, on Friday the 29th, they set sail in presence of the governor; and on Friday the eth of Augurs, after coasting among the islands, ard dropping anchor continually, they got outs the frtii.h,, and being come into the open sea, to their great satisfaction they coiled their cables be tween decks, being to calf anchor no more till they,camt
came into New Spain, and the boat was, set adrift that he might be of no hindrance, because they had another in quarters in case of need, that is, in pieced ready to clap-together. About break of day, on Thursday the 6th of September, they discovered four of the Marian islands; having been greatly toesld in a storm two days before, in which the captain exposing the image of St. Xaverius, had vowed to make an offering to the value of the main sail, which was worth two hundred pieces of eight. There islands are at present called de Los Ladroness, upon account of-the thievish nature of the inhabitants who are of a gigantic stature, corpulent and very Rfrong, and will sometimes clap five hundred weight on their backs as if it were nothing; they are great swimmers, and dive so swiftly that they will take fish. No token of any religion has been discovered in any of these islands their language is different from that of the Phi pippins, and the soil is proper to produce all. things necessary for man's sustenance. In this long voyage there is a strange variation of the needle observed, for which there has been no satisfactory reason Signed, in two hundred years that voyage has been used. The pilots observe this variation, when the fun is setting ; for marking the true west point, they then see how the cardinal points of their card an(wer.,After having now spent six months at sea, and suffered greatly from the violence of that immense ocean, the cold of the latitudes they were obliged to run into, and the badness of their provisions, which all swarmed with maggots and vermin on Monday, December 3d, they were all rejoiced to see a very long weed, with a root like an onion, which the sailors affirmed was a sign of land, it having been pulled up from the mouth of some fiver by the violence of the sean upon the sight of,this
this Te Meum was sung, and all persons congratu. lated one another with the sound of drums and trumpets, as if they had been in their port, where. as they were then seven hundred leagues from it, At length, on Saturday the seth of January, 1698, they entered the port of Acapulco at the great clan. net, where all on board embraced one another with tears of joy, seeing themselves in their desired port, after a voyage of two hundred and four days and five hours.,On Sunday, three hours before night, the king's officers came on board, to whom was delivered the register or entry of all that was on board the gallon, to regulate the king's duties, which amount. ed to eighty thousand pieces of eight, betides the present to the viceroy. Having taken an account who Gemelli was, they expressed a great deal of civility, and offered their service to him. There being no inn at Acapulco, he was forced to go on Monday the' 21ft, to the Monastery of Neutral Sen nora de la Guca of the Franciscans, by whom he w s courteously entertained this city of Acapulco might more properly be called a poor village of fishermen than the chief mart of the South Sea, and port of the voyage to China; so mean and wretched are the houses, be ing made of nothing but wood, mud, and straw. It is seated at the foot of high mountains, which cot-er it on the east side, but render it very subject to diimpers. The ill temper of the air, and the mountainous soil, oblige it to be supplied with pro visions from elsewhere, which renders living dear th r, ; the place, besides being dear, is dirty ;ind inc i lenient, f, that it is inhabited by none but blanc a id mulattoes The barren ms mountains in the e l. noulhou:d are not without game. for there are de-r. r bb;ts, and other creatures, and, great variety osA fids.,A few
?p Â·~ A~kzi of theol london i a oJ CO :"Â·Â·lz~ t,,rT,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ,ndzrC#+~of~lexico 4: / V.Â· ~n,l~at.16.45YV ,i-Â· Â£wf~simLo~io8.l2aW z",.4sl~ns5~'n~can Bqabey~vuk LU lid .r4Aizs~atÂ·VF a,U-~ - Â·7:1: 110 Â·'F ?Â·% ~~~~~~li,07r Â·- 'Ac
A few days after the arrival of the gallon, fe vernal ships came in from Peru, on board of which were officers and merchants, bringing with them two millions of pieces of eight to lay out in Chi nee commodities; so that Friday the 25th, Acapulco was converted front a rustic village into a populous city, as many merchants had likewise ar rived from Mexico, bringing along with them much silver, and many commodities of Europe.,Saturday the 2d of February, Gemelli went to view the castle, which having no ditch or bastions is only remarkable for its good bears cannon, sufficient to defend the fort against any enemy. Tuesday the 25th, there was a little earthquake, but it did no harm; these earthquakes are so very frequent at Acapulco, that the people are forced of necessity to build low houses. Tuesday the 12th Gemelli ordered his affairs to set out for Mexico, hiring three mules for ninety pieces of eight, tho' it was to cots him six reals a day for their meat, On Monday the i8th, having got a pals, and taken a guide, he set out at four in the afternoon, and after travelling nine miles up and down wait high mountains, he came to the inn of Atuxo, consisting of five thatched cottages, where a legion of gnats sucked his blood all night. After travelling in this manner for eleven days without any accommoda tion in the inns, and sometimes obliged to seep on the ground, on very high mountains, where the snow covered him almost before morning; he at last arrived at Mexico, and entered the city over a causeway made upon the lake. Monday the 4th of March he went to pay his respect's to count Mon tezuma the viceroy, who received him courteously; and on Wednesday the ch he went to see the mint, where he was told they coined sixteen thousand pieces of eight a day.,Mexico,
Mexico, so called by the Spaniards, and by the Indians Tenoch-Titlan, is in the latitude of mind. teen degrees and forty minutes, and in the midst of a valley almost flat, fourteen Spanish leagues in length from north to south, seven in breadth, and about forty in compass. On the east side of this valley is a large lake, into which several rivers and other waters fall; the ridge of mountains that in. close it on all sides, in the lowest place is forty. 'two thousand and five hundred Spanish yards above the level of the lake. The city is situated in a persia plain, about the middle of the lake; the plat of it is square, and it looks like a curious chess-board, by reason of its long, wide, and well. paved streets. crossing one another at square angles-the compass is two leagues, being almost perfectly square, and having five causeways into it, being so many banks made in the Luke without walls-or gates. For excellent structures and ornaments of churches, it may be said to vie with the best in Italy, but for beautiful women it surpasses it.,Mexico contains about an hundred thousand in habitants; but the greatest part of them blackstone Mulattoes, by reason of the vast number of slaves that has beer carried thither; another reasons; that all the lands being in the hands of churchmen, as well as the houses, the Spaniards and other Eu; romans finding no way to get estates real, as all discreet persons ought to do, will not easily be per faded to marry, and generally they themselves be came religious men. Thus, though the city is not large, there are within it twenty-two nunneries and twenty-nine monasteries of monks and friars of fe' vernal orders, all richer than they ought to be. As an instance of the wealth of the churchmen there, the revenue of the cathedral is above three hun died thousand pieces of eight a year.,lThe
The weather in this city is very unequal all'the rear about, it being for the most part both cold and hot at the same time: that is, cold in the shade and hot in the fun. The soil, by reason of the great rains that fall, gives three crops in a year; but the third is called Adventurers, that is, accidental because it fails sometimes. In short,. Mexico must be allowed to be an excellent city, there never being any excess of cold or heat; and all the year round there are flowers and fruits of all sorts in its markets. The antient histories of Mexico make mention of a flood, in which all men and bears perished, excepting only one man and woman, who were saved in a boat; 'this couple, after thetford abated, coming to the foot of a mountain wentafhore, and there had many children, among whose descendants they reckon fifteen heads of families, who hap opening to speak the same language, joined together, and went about to find some land to inhabits when hey had wandered an hundred and four years from place to place, they at lai came to the place where Mexico now stands. After six of the most civilized of these fifteen nations had been fettled there three hundred and two years, came the seventh, called Mexicans, from their prince called Mei. The first king of them having reigned forty years, died without appointing his sons to' succeed him, and in return for this his moderation, the chief men assembling, chose one of his sons, who 'mar ring the daughter of a neighbouring king that formerly oppressed them, by that means procured each and safety for his fubjeas. This, according o their histories, happened but about two centuries before the Spaniards came there, which was n the fourteenth year of the reign of Montezuma heir ninth king; Cortes the Spanish general taking in prisoner, the Mexicans chore another king,while
while he was alive; but this tenth and last kin died a prisoner to the Spaniards. From this numb of kings, and other circumstances, some writen have drawn a comparison betwixt the Mexico empire and the beat mentioned in the Revelation with seven heads and ten horns for want of letters, the ingenious Mexicans us symbols, or hieroglyphicks, to express corpore things; and for others, other proper characters and by these, for the benefit of posterity, they note down every thing that happened. Their way writing was from the bottom of the board orpape upwards, directly contrary to the Chinese. Th( had certain circles painted which contained the fpt of an age, divided into years, with the proper syr bols: this age confided of fifty-two solar years, three hundred and sixty five days each: the girl owes divided into four chief parts, each contains thirteen years. This way of reckoning was not oen observed in their years but in their months though their month was of twenty days, yet wk they came to the number thirteen they began again but this caused no confusion, for every one of days of the month had its proper name; and U they allowed but twenty days t6 a month tt made eighteen months in a year, and added supernumerary days to bring it to agree withy fun's course: they likewise did not neglect theft hours, but took notice of them at the end of ths age.,The antient Mexicans believed the world wow end with their age, and therefore, on the lath of it, they kneeled on the tops of their houses, w their faces towards the east, doubtfully expel whether the fun would continue his course. WI the first day appeared they solemnized it with dru and other instruments they used; giving thank God for having granted them another age. Belike
likewise kept as it were a jubilee every fourth year, on the Seth of May, on which was the festival of one of their idols; they faced five days before it, and the priests abstained from their wives, and went about beating themselves in a penitential habit. All other people were clad in the same manner, and went in procession, begging one another's pardon. Upon the day appointed, a slave that was like the statue of the idol was sacrificed, and others with him. These captives, to make them more miserable, were fatted up some days before, and worshipped a. bout the city like gods. They had other festivals yet more detestable, as fleming of a lave and cloathing another with his skin whom they had led about the streets, shewing him to the people, and begging money for the temple. At other times they clad several fives with idol's garments a whole year before the festival, leading them in the day time about the city that they might be adored like the idols, and keeping them shut up at night, feeding them plentifully, and sacrificing them at the year's end. Some years they butchered to the number of twenty thousand. Their temples were built after the manner of pyramids, ascending by flairs, and, for the most part, of clay, the idol being placed in a tabernacle, and, round the bot tom, apartments built for the priests. Their manner of cloathing was sometimes very barbarous: the soldiers that they might appear the more dreadful to their enemies, gained their naked bodies, or else covered them with a whole lion's or tyger's skin, placing the head of the bear upon their own. They hung across them, like a shoulder-belt, a firing of men's hearts, notes and ears, with a head at the end. The habit of the kings and princes of the blood was not amiss, if compared with that of the common sort, excepting only the bad practice of boring their under lip, to sick a gold nail or smoother
other jewel in it. The habit of the Indians at pie. sent is a short doublet and wide breeches; on thei 'shoulders they wear a cloak of several colours, whic they call tilma, and which, crossing under the right arm, is tied upon the left shoulder, the ends making a great knot: instead of shoes some wear sandals; and, though all in rags and starving, they will no part with their hair. The women wear narrow coats, with figures of lions, birds, and other crew. turns, adorning them with curious ducks feathers the Indians at present are nothing near so inc. pious as they were formerly, when they successful applied themselves to the liberal arts and mecca nice; but now they are altogether devoted to idleness, and apply themselves to nothing but cheating. The are naturally very fearful, but excessive cruel if wel backed. The vices the Spaniards generally charge them with are, first, the want of sense of honour, for in their actions they shew nothing of it; being beastly in eating; lying on the bare ground; an :dying without any concern: on the other side, the are used like slaves, for they only work in the mines; and what is worse, all they get is taken from them by the governors and other officers, notwithstanding the daily threats from courtesan Mexico the Spaniards have built a pretty large theatre, where plays are aged, the profits of which go to the maintenance of the hospital. The bathe. drat when finished will be a very noble structure; it is large, and has three vaulted isles supported on high pillars of stone : in the midst of it is the choir, curiously carved in sweet wood, with beautiful figures and feuillage, and four fine altars in the arms of the cross. About the church there are fever chapels gilt. The front is extraordinary noble, wit three gates. Historians tell us, that this church wv founded by D. Ferdinand Cortes, on the very farm ground where the heathen temple formerly ftoo(,Thurfda:
Thursday, March 21 f, Gemelli rode three leagues cut of town to see the celebrated garden of St. An gel, of the barefoot Carmelitess, which, though not above three quarters of a Spanifi league in compass, yet a river running thro' the midst of it makes-it so fruitful, that only the European trees there planted yield a revenue of thirteen thousand pieces of eight. The church these fathers have there, though small, is all a meer mars of gold. Their library is one of the belt in the Indies, containing about twelve thou sand volumes. On Holy Thursday, the 4th of April, three pro cessions went out one after another; each of them carried images, with abundance of lights; and a company of armed men a-foot, besides others a-horfe- back, went before them with trumpets sounding dismally Friday the 5th was the procession of Jerusalem or Mount-Calvary. About three in the morn ing three trumpets sounded a doleful tune, and then appeared a great many brothers with lights in their hands, and among them several persons whipping themselves; then followed a company of armed men, one of them a-horseback, carrying the sentence in rising, title, garment, and other tokens of the aston; then persons representing our Saviour, the healed Virgin, St. John, St. Veronica, the good nd the bad thief; then two representing Jewish rifts on mules, and others, in very good order: n short, nothing was inferior to the magnificence of europe; and as Mexico is full of churches and re igious houses, a great part of the employment of he citizens is taken up with religious observances. As Mexico is situated it is subject to be overflowed y the waters of its lakes, which run down in vast quantities from the mountains about it: this hap end three times during the Indian kings; and the ear after it was conquered by the Spaniards, the waters swelled so high that they were obliged to,-8 - make
make a new bank against them; this not being x sufficient defence, they began to turn away the river Guatitlan, which did most harm. Another great inundation happened in the year 1580, the viceroy ordered some method to be formed to drain all the lake, but this was omitted upon account of the great expence. In Ice there was so great a flood that the city was almost swallowed up, which ride the carrying off the water to be thought of again. Ar. rio Martinez, a European, having planned out the work, on November the 28th, 1607, after mass sung, the viceroy himself, after having taken a spade, began to dig. The number of Indians that wrought from the end of November till the 7th of May next year, was four hundred, seventy-one thousand, one hundred and fifty-four; and those that made it their business to dress them meat were one thousand, six hundred and seventy-four. In ici the king de. handed a particular account of the.progrefs of the work from the viceroy, and he, by the advices understanding people, answered, That they had taken wrong measures, and therefore all the expence was lost. After several other smaller attempts, in 1637, it was again proposed to carry on the work, and the geometricians declared that seventy millions, seven hundred, twenty-one thousand, five hundred and twenty-fix cubical yards of earth gulf be dug to make way for four cubical yards of water of the lake. Though they had continued working from the year 1657, yet in the year 1698, there re. gained much more to do than had been done, and indeed they had rendered it impracticable ever to ac complied it in the method they proposed ; forwarding the canal, like a mine, under ground, the rivers no sooner fv-eil than they fill it up with the stores and trees they carry along with them.,On WVednefday the i7th, Gemelli set out to see the mines of Pachuca, and next day, about noo0,,arrived
arrived there, and was entertained by the chief officer of the king's revenue, who, as soon as they had dined, sent his son-in-law with him to the two nearest mines, about half a league distant, over a rough and craggy road. The depth of the first was two hun died and twenty-four English yards; of the other one hundred and ninety-five yards. Gemelli went down so far by five notched poles, but the miner would let him go no farther for fear he should tumble down headlong; and indeed the poles were wet, and a man's foot might easily flip as he was finding out the notch. By there upright notched poles the miners, in several of the mines, carry up he ore upon their backs. Having rested a little he went to viewthe mine of the Trinity, reckoned the richest of all, persons of reputation affirming that, within ten years, forty millions of fiver had been ran out of it, nine hundred or one thousand men working there every day. In another mine, about ne hundred and twenty yards deep, he resolved o see the veins-of silver; but after going down five notched poles, and finding how likely it was to humble down headlong, he thought of going up gain, but the miner encouraged him, and telling im there was but a few poles to the bottom, he entered to go down the rest, though with much ear, the miner going down before him with a light n his hand; yet sometimes he found it very difficult o clasp the pole with his arms and fix his feet on he notches; however, recommending himself to God, he went down three times as far as he ex eyed, and came at last to the place where the inert were working at the ore with iron wedges. Having said about two hours he went up again in 'such dread because of the bad aCcent, and was near y (pent by the time he got to the top, which having gained he reflected upon the foolishness and rash 'es of the action, having never been so much afraid,in
in all the five years he had travelled among barb; rous nations, and would not again have gone dow into that place, where curiosity alone had led hic for two or three thousand pieces of eight. Aunt dinner next day, they carried him to see the met separated at the silver works. Saturday 26, heft out from Pachuca betimes, and next day arrived Mexico.,All the plate dug out of the mines of New Spa: nuit be carried to Mexico to be entered in the a. chequer; and they say a million of pounds of sixteen ounces are entered in a year, besides what is flippt aside: out of this sum they coin every year few hundred thousand marks, into pieces of eight, this mint. The silver that is be coined into the is to be again entered into the exchequer, there pay to the king a real in a mark. It is coined in five different sorts of money; namely, pieces ofeigl half pieces of eight, quarter pieces of eight, fin reals, and half reals. Tho' every private citizens has silver may have it coined into money, yet mint is almost continually employed by mercian who buy the metal from private persons, and p two reals short of the value in a mark. There ing rome gold mixed with the silver, it is fepara in a place apart, and coined in the same manner the silver into pieces of sixteen, eight, four, two pieces of eight, which are called crowns gold thursday the 6th of June, the procession Corpus ChriRi was celebrated with great mag licence; the streets and windows of the city wC richly adorned with images, carpets and qui! which, together with the green herbs and beauty flowers, made a delightful show. In the fly smith's streets was the conquest of Mexico cu oufly painted, with the houses exactly-as they v then, and the habits the Indians then wore.,procei
procession began with about an hundred images adorned with flowers; then followed the brother hoods and religious of all orders, except the Jesuits and Carmelitess; after them the canons, carrying the sacraments on a thing like a bier: the lash were the archbishop, the viceroy, the ministry, magi states of the city, and nobility. The feast of St. Peter and St. Paul being the 29th, it was kept in the cathedral, the high altar being so richly adorned that it was valued at one hundred fifty thousand pieces of eight, the chalice alone, which was set with emeralds, having cost eleven thousand.,On Tuesday the-6th of July died the lady Fauna Dominica Sarmiento, grandchild, in the fifth de scent, to the emperor Montezuma, and daughter to count Montezuma the viceroy: she was then but eight years of age, and by her death a revenue of forty thousand pieces f eight a year fell to her youngest sister; for the counts of Montezuma in Spain, being descended from a son of the emperor Montezuma, who survived his father, and turning Christian, was baptized by the name of Peter: the king allows him forty thousand pieces of eight a year out of the exchequer at Mexico. The lady above mentioned was buried the next day with great so lemnity.,August the loth, some Indians, to slew their Skill, killed the lead birds, upon the highest trees, with pellets shot out of trunks; and, on the 14th of September, when the price of bread had been set at half a real for fourteen ounces, a baker was fined for selling sixteen ounces-for the same price: an action altogether unaccountable the time of his departure-drawing near, Gemelli Went to see rome Indian antiquities not far from the city. These are two pyramids about twenty miles from Mexico: the first is the pyramid of the moon, 'wo sides of which were about one hundred and VOL. VII. G sixty
sixty yards, the other two about one hundred and ten yards; the height, as near as they could guess was about fifty yards. To say the truth, it was no think but a heap of earth made in steps like the py raids of Egypt, only that those are of sone. There flood once on the top of it a very great idol of the moon, made of hard stone coarse enough, but the first bishop of Mexico caused it to be broke to pieces out of a religious zeal, and there are stil three great pieces of it at the foot of the pyramid, A little south from this stands the pyramid of the fun, two hundred paces from the other; two side of it were two hundred and twenty-five yards in length, but the other two were not above one hundred and fifty. Its height was about a fourth part more than that of the moon. The statue of the fun that flood on the top was maimed and displaced, but not thrown to the ground. This figure had a great hollow in the breast where the fun was placed, and all the rest was covered with gold.,It is dubious how the Indians, having no use of iron, could cut such hard honest and raise them upon such high structures, being destitute of convenient engines, and having neither mules, horses, nor oxen for carriage. The building of these pyramids is attributed to the Ulmecos, the second planters of New Spain, who some suppose came from the finland Atlantis, mentioned by Plato in his Times, all the Indian histories agreeing that these Ulmecos came by sea from the east; and on the other side, the inhabitants of the island Atlantis derived their original from the Egyptians, who had the custom of raising pyramids new Spain cannot be paralleled by any country in the world for variety of beautiful birds, but of them ail, the preference is given to the fefontle, which in the Mexican language, signifies five hundred voices, : is a shall matter less than a thrush, and of an,athen
ashen colour, only the tail and wings are speckled. with white. Besides, they have several sorts of parrots; and for eatable fowl there are two sorts of pheasants, and others like our hens, abundance of wild turkies, quails, and several other smaller birds, As for beasts, there are bears, wolves, wild bears, with their navel upon their back, hares, deer, foxes, tygers, lions, an't other-fOrts. The lions are not so fierce as those in Africa, but being pursued by the dogs run up the trees. - There are-several other kinds peculiar to the country; as fibres, as big as a cow, with a soft skin greatly valued; ardillas, like dormice; lobos, like leopards; and gorilla, as big as a cat: these, when pursued, flop to piss for their defence, because this water of theirs infects the very air for an hundred paces about, and overcomes those that pursue it.,The belt fruits of New Spain are its gold and silver, the pearl taken in its seas, the emeralds found among the rocks, and other precious stones of Peru: but of the fruits growing on trees there are all sorts that Europe affords, except nuts, cherries, medlars and service-berries. These peculiar to the country are plantains, pine-apples, annas, cocoa, ages and dates, betides the aguacates, like a walnut tree; and fates, the taste of whose fruit is sweet, and the most valued of all that grow in a hot country., There is a composition made of it which the ladies; chew to keep their teeth whites Among their. shrubs the molt refpeA is due to the cacao, which is the chief ingredient in chocolate, the other being the vanilla, which is the fruit of an Indian cane that twines about the orange-tree like ivy. Here grows a very useful plant, called anni or indigo, .necessary in dying blue.,G2 CHAP.
C H A P. Xxii The author leaves the continent of America, and sail from Vera Cruz to Havana: his voyage from thence to Spain, on board one of the galleons of th, plate fleet: he arrives at Cadiz: a description oj that city: his journey from thence to Madrid, by thb way of Seville, with a description of these two cities,,E MELL I being weary of his long slay in G Mexico, and having taken leave of all his friends, he set out from that city on Thursday the Both of October, intending-to embark on board the advice boat, bound for the Havana, in order to sail from thence to the Canary Islands, there be ing no hopes that the fleet would fail in any reason able time. After travelling four leagues he flopped at the inn of Chalco; and next day, setting out be. fore fun-rising with other company, they travelled five leagues. The third day of his journey he travelled eight leagues, and passed by the city Tlafcula, against which the arms of the Mexican empire could never prevail. Next day, being satisfied there was nothing worth seeing at Tlafcula, which is become an ordinary village, he went on his journey; and at one in the afternoon, after riding five leagues, he arrived at the city of the Angels.,This city was founded by the Spaniards in 1531, and so called because the queen of Spain saw in a dream a great many angels marking out the ground. The buildings here, for the most part are of lime and stone, and vie with those of Mexico. The streets are neater and cleaner, and the great square is much finer. Three sides of it are adorned with good porticoes, on the other is the cathedral, with a moil beautiful front and high tower. About the,city
city there are many mineral waters. On Monday the 14th Gemelli visited the monasteries of the Barefoot Carmelitess, and of the Dominicans, of the Fathers Hospitallers, of the Trinity, and of St. Clare, which is vastly rich, having five hundred thousand pieces of eight, raised by the portions of the nuns, which lie dormant. There are besides fe vernal other monasteries, nunneries, colleges and churches, which may give the reader an idea of the greatness, magnificence, and wealth of the city. When Gemelli took his leave the bishop made him a present worth thirty pieces of eighteen Monday the twenty-firs, proceeding on his journey towards Vera Cruz, he rode three leagues, and lay at the Indian governor's house: next day, riding seven leagues, he set up at the farm of Iftapa. Wednesday the 23d, having rode seven leagues thro' a very bad road, he lodged at a Spanish farm, where he was received courteously, but a fowl he gave them to dress came to table without legs or wings. Thursday the 24th, having travelled five leagues, he lay at the town of Cordova, the head of that alcadelhip. Friday the twenty-fourth, coming into a hotter country, he saw parrots of several sorts, and abundance of turkies: having travelled this day ten leagues, he lay at the inn of St. Corpus, where there was neither man's nor horse's meat. Next day, having travelled four leagues over a wild plains he found himself in tome distress, having a great river to ford. But making a virtue of necessity, he and another Spaniard made one of the Mulattos guide them, and being come to the bank caused him to go over first upon a tall mule, and saw the water come up to the crupper. There being no going back he made the Mulatto come again to carry over his portmanteau, in which were his ma manuscripts and money, besides one thousand pieces of eight of the Spaniard's. Being come to the others
side they bethought themselves how little the) should have been pitied had the Mulatto gone away with the mule and all they had, and left them in the lurch; for fear had so blinded their understandings that they forgot that one of them ought to have gone over first to the other side. After travelling four leagues farther through long grass, they lodged at a farm called Afperilla. Sunday the 27th, after riding five leagues, he arrived in the afternoon at the Sort of the New Vera Cruz, where he found his equipage sent thither a month before the new city of Vera Cruz is seated in the latitude of nineteen degrees and fifteen minutes, on a sandy barren soil, so that provisions coming a great way it is very dear living: the whole compass is scarce a Spanish league ; and the air, especially in summer, is net wholesome. Very often, when the north wind blows, the houses are half buried in the sand about them, which has lodged all about the wall, so that one may ride over it. In 1683 it was taken and sacked by a pirate of Petiguavas, who landing early one morning half a league west of the city, fur prized the inhabitants, who made no opposition. The castle is half a league from the city, so that it can no way defend it, but only serves to secure the port gemelli rested here a month after his journey, being promised a good conveniency on board a vessel that was soon to set out. During his slay he frequently went a shooting, but in the woods was greatly plagued with guarapatus, a sort of vermin like chalice,' which from the plants get upon people's clothes as they pass by and pierce into the very fiefs; so that it requires much trouble and dexterity to get them out. The vessel being now ready the governor recommended him to the captain, and gave him letters'of recommendation to,--leon at the Havana, and likewise made,him
him a present in money. Having taken leave of his friends, on Saturday the 14th of December he went aboard; the governor having added one favour' to all the rest, which was not to sussex his trunks to be opened at the custom-house. About noon they fell down along the western channel, close to the castle, and got out about evening. Sunday the isti they held on their course, and after a very stormy voyage of three hundred leagues they arrived - safe at Havana, and Gemelli landed and carried his goods to a hired house on Monday the 3oth.,The Havana is a little city in the island of Cuba, half a league in compass, situated in a plain, and in the latitude of twenty-three degrees twenty minutes. It is almost round inclosed with poor low walls on the land side. The inhabitants are about four thousand souls, Spaniards, Mulattos and Blacks,' who live most of them in low houses. The women are beautiful and the men ingenious. The governor has the title of captain-general of the island, and administers justice with the assistance of an assessor. It is very dear living here, for three ounces of breed cost three pence, and half a pound of meat as much a hen is worth six shillings and eight pence, and fruit and other things proportionable; so that a man can scarce live under two pieces of eight a day. The sand is about three hundred leagues in length, and about thirty in breadth. The inhabitants are poor, having no trade but tobacco and sugars the cultivation of which depends wholly upon the labour of Blacks, who are treated by their inhuman masters like brute beasts. The city of Havana has a safe deep harbour, defended by three castles. In the town are four monasteries and five churches : there is likewise an hospital for soldiers, having a revenue of twelve thousand pieces of eight a year. Saturday the eleventh of January, 1669, a boat arrived mn twenty four hours from the opposite coast of,G 4 Florida,
Florida, and set on shore some Indians of Cuyo. They were allowed to trade in hopes to corner them, because their cacique had consented to receive fourteen Franciscan missionaries into his country monday the I3th, a small vessel from Jamaica brought the news of the peace concluded betwixt France and the allies. Thursday the 16th the chess of pieces of eight began to be put on board the gallons, in all amounting to thirty millions, belonging to the king and merchants, for goods sold at the fair of Porto Bello,. a commerce carried on between the traders of Seville and Lima. There traders repose a great faith in one another, for, when once agreed about the price, they inter. changeable deliver the bales of goods and chefts.of pieces of eight without seeing any thing of the con tents; and afterwards, at the opening of them be fore public notaries, if any thing be found amiss, the companies of Seville and Liina are to make all good. This year the company of Lima paid five thousand pieces of eight for goods found over and above at the fairs of the foregoing year sunday the i 6th, the admiral made proclamation by sound of trumpet, that the fleet should sail on the Sith of the next month; and that all persons mute be aboard on the 8th ; prohibiting likewise, upon pain of death, any boat to go out of the har your, left the enemy should have notice that the ga leon were ready to sail. Sunday the 22d, the master builder of the (hips represented to the admiral that the ships, being higher built than men of war, it would be sending them to be lost, if they went out under loaded. Hereupon there was a council held of all the sea-officers, who concluded the hold must be well flowed: a determination of judges more for their own than for the king's service. It being now near the time of sailing, the people belonging to the gallons bought up a great many red birds, called,cardinal)s
cardinals, giving eight or ten pieces of eight for some of them; and upon computation it was said there had been eighteen'thoufand pieces'of eight laid out upon these foolish birds. D. Ferdinand Charon having generously given Gemelli his pallas-tis on board his gallon, he sent, on Sunday the gtn, for his equipage, and on Wednesday the 12th, sent his boat to take him on board thursday the 13th the warning piece being fired, all the gallons weighed anchor, and the admiral by fun-ring made way out of the harbour. Next day they were twenty leagues from Havana, when a woman that was found on board in men's cloaths was taken and put among the other women, there being no possibilities putting her on shore. Con tinting their voyage they arrived at Cadiz on Wed nefflay the 4th of June, and came to an anchor near the Tales, having failed one thousand three hun died leagues from Havana in eighty-four days. All Cadiz rejoiced, forgetting the loss of several millions by the late sacking of Cartagena: not only the houses but the steeples were adorned with colours set up, and all the shore covered with a multitude of people who come down to see them, the bells throughout all the city ringing to echo their joy. Before the anchors were dropt Gemelli went ashore in a boat, and took a room in an inn to recover himself after his past sufferings the island of Cadiz was first called Juno's Island, on account of a temple there dedicated to her: after that it had the name of Nadir and Gates, and lastly corruptly came to be called Cadiz. The city is seated to the northward of the Strait of Gibraltar, in thirty-fix degrees thirty minutes latitude. The port may be said to be one of the most frequented in Europe. The city is an island: fbr on the east side, towards the continent of Spain, there is a small channel, over which is aloft beautiful bridget 5 though
though small it is vastly rich, and the buildings, as well public as private, not inferior to many in Eu rope, but the streets are ill shaped and crooked, The island', though but three miles in length, is well fup.-S.cd with a:l sorts of provisions. On the east side is a small castle, and two forts upon the bay.,On Wednesday the 2d of July, Gemelli set out for Port St. Mary, two leagues from Cadiz. It is much larger than Cadiz, the streets handsomer, as are also the great houses: being situated upon an inlet of the sea that runs two leagues up the country, it is inhabited by very rich merchants. Having hired a calash for twelve reals, on Thursday he went in it, through a uncultivated country, three leagues, to St. Lucy de Barameda; a town bigger than Ca. dis, seated on the river Guadalquiver: here he took a boat before sun-set, and having run up six leagues w;it'h wind and tide, about midnight the waterman Cii anchor, and they lay there all night. - Making u' ofthe tide they went up the river all Friday, and on S :saturday the 5th he got into Seville, through the gate of the arsenal, where he gave the officers hall a piece of eight to pars his goods. Andrea Ca'2gnra, a Genoese, courteously received him in his house, and ester dinner they went in a coach and four horses to take the air in the Alameda. Here are long rows of trees, and in the midst of them a fountain which serves to water the place every night. At the entrance into this place there are two high and ancient pillars, with two statues on them, much imp ir-d with ae, one of which they say represents H-crcuies, and the other Julius Cfair.,Sev;Ele is ifeted in a plain, in the latitude of tlhirt, seven degrees twenty minutes. It is almorc round, and not much less than two leagues in com pats; bo roulious that it contains about forty-two rrcnaiireries of religious men, thirty-fix nunneries and twh'Â¢ve hospitals, besides the paris churches;,i,nd
and all there are good structures, as are the palaces and houses of the citizens; but the streets are not paved, but narrow, crooked and intricate, much like those of the Moorish towns. There are four teen gates in its low walls, and on the other side of; the river is another little city called Friana, joined. to Seville by a wooden bridge. Seville is nothing. inferior to Madrid for bigness or number of inhabitants the .ren are handsomer than the womenbut: very proud here is the palace of the ancient Moorish kings, which is a large structure consisting of many courts,, about which there are noble apartments; there are likewise several fine gardens adorned with myrtle walks, and fish ponds surrounded with orange trees; and the whole is inclosed with high walls and square towers at convenient distances. The lonja, or exchange, is a large structure, arched, and supported by pillars of hard front: here a prior and:. two consuls administer justice to merchants under a. canopy in a stately hall. Other things worthy of notice at Seville are an aqueduct said to be built it the Romans, the India-house, the house of St. Elms,. where boys are taken in to be intruded in the art of navigation, after which they are sent to the In dies: when they return the governor of the horse receives them, and recovers their wages of the king or traders as long as they will continue to live in, that house sunday the 13th, having taken leave of all friend, Ceme!!i set out frrMadrid in a coach-hired for fifty four pieces of eight. Going out of Seville, near filn.fetting, they came to castle Blanc by one in the morning, after having travelled five leagues,. Fart mountain and part plain. Next day they traveled seven leagues, and before they got in some of them were like to be killed by the overturn i" of thS coach. The three following days, hav,. 6 i
ing travelled seventeen leagues, they came to Me. rida, a royal city, inhabited by about eight hundred families, among which there are some noted nobility The most remarkable thing here is a noble stone bridge, half an Italian mile in length, over the river Guadiana, and broad enough for two coaches to go a-breast. Setting out from Merit next day, and continuing their rout for fifty-one leagues more, on Sunday the 27th they arrived at Madrid, over the bridge of Segovia.,The royal town of Madrid is seated in a plain, watered by the river Mancanares. The country about it is uneven, but the air is very good and wholesome; though it lies in no more than forty de green forty minutes latitude, yet the cold in winter and the heat in summer are intolerable. The shape of it is almost oval, being little above a mile in length-nd near five in compass. Before the kings of Spain chose it for their residence it was but a small village. Ti e walls about it are low and of mud, with fifteen gates: the streets are always very dirty by reason of the culomn of throwing all filth out at the windows. The houses, for the most part, cannot compare with those of Italy, being generally ill built with timber ribs ; but the king's palaces are molt magnificent as well from the greatness of the firuaure as for the richness of the furniture, curious pictures, abundance cf fountains, fish ponds and parks. All the churches are well served and adorned. Among tee public buildings the Place Major, or Great Square, is very graceful; all the houses about it are built after the same model, five stories high, with as many rows of iron balconies, all curiously made and uniform. Here the festival of riding at bulls is kept, when the squares is all richly hung and graced with the appearance of the king, nobility, magi states, and ladies of quality richly dressed. Gemelli being disappointed of going to Italy by the way of,Alicant,
Valiant, as he had intended, he took two places for twenty-four pieces of eight in the coach for Pampelona, and having taken leave of his friends. prepared for his journeys H A P. XXIV. She author's journey from Madrid to Toulouse, atd from thence to Marseilles: his voyage from Mar filles to Genoa; a description of that city; his journey from thence to Milan, Bologna, Florence, Rome, and his arrival at Naples, which concludes the journey round the zworld.,ONDAY the 8th of September, having per. M1 formed his devotions, he took coach after dinner and went three leagues; setting out again at break of day, he crossed the river Guadarrama, upon a good stone bridge, and came, at the end of three leagues, to the city of Alcala, where there is a famous university: passing forwards he lay at Junquera, having travelled nine leagues; and at a moderate rate of journeying they came tO Pamper iona on Thursday about noon. This city, seated in the latitude of forty-three degrees, is the me metropolis of the kingdom of Navarre, and'therefore the usual residence of the viceroy, and of all the courts. For spiritual affairs it has a bishop, with, a revenue of twenty-two thousand pieces of eight; The city stands upon an uneven ground:at the foot' of the Pyrenean mountains the compass of its walls is about half a league. The houses are ge neatly well-built, but the monasteries and churches' are not very stately. The citadel is very large, nd the walls so thick, that two coaches may go breast upon them,,i - The
The inhabitants of Pampelona, and general all the Navarrois, are affable, and-lovers of fran. gers, shewing them much reste:, and preferring them before their own people. Having got mules for eight pieces of eight each, to carry him to St. Jean de Pied de Port, he set out on Friday the igth, and travelling over very steep mountains, next day he came to the village of Roncesvalles, an ex. effie cold place. The church belongs to the ,king, and has twelve canons.,In this church they slew two clubs covered with iron, used formerly in war, and one of the stirrups of Orlando, the great champion of France. Riding thence along a craggy dangerous path on the mountain, and going down on the other side, he crossed a small river, which divides the two king. dons of France and Spain. A league from, thence they came from St. Jean de Pied de Port, the me metropolis of the Lower Navarre; it is well-walled, and has a small suburb, and on the hill that com. hands the city is a castle regularly fortified. On Monday the 22d, setting forwards, next day they arrived at Lascar, where the parliament of Beam meets to avoid contests about precedence: Pauli the metropolis of this province, and is watered by the river Gave, over which there is a stone bridge of a vals length; the city is divided into upper and lower, and neither of them is walled, The castle is well-built, after the ancient manner; there is Henry IVth's royal chapel, and the room where he was born. Thursday the 25th he rode five leagues, and lay at the town of Tare, the head o' the'province of Borne, but subject to a parliament of Toulouse ; leaving Tare Friday the 26ti; :-,. third day after he arrived at Thouloufe.,This - nous for its parliament and univer fit, is sea - . an excellent air, and may recalled the-greatest c,'- iii France, next to Paris, being,, I;a~
half a league long, and the third part of a league in breadth. In the 638th year of Rome, Q. Cepit destroyed it, and carried thence a vas quantity of gold and silver. The walls at present are of brick, with towers after the ancient manner. The houses are indifferently built of brick, and the streets well-paved; abundance of gentry live in it, and generally the inhabitants are well affected to strangers, behaving themselves civilly and politely. The bridge over the Garonne is two musket-shot in length, and broad enough for six coaches to go a-breast. The town-house is a'flately firuaure, the walls adorned with half statues of marble, and' the rooms with rich pictures of former magistrates. The famous canal that joins the ocean to the Ma mediterranean falls into the Garonne at this place; it was made by Louis XIV. to save sailing quite' round Spain. Several gatherings of water made on the plain and hills supply the canal, banks thrown up keep in the water at certain distances where, the ground is low, and the boats even mount over. hills by the help of sluices, like so many fleps.,Having hired a calash for nineteen crowns to. :Montpelier, Gemelli set out the last day of Sep temper betimes; after crossing the great canal fe vernal times upon bridges, he lay at Besiege; on. Wednesday the St of Otober, after riding six leagues through a well-peopled country, he arrived at Carcafonne. This is a large walled city, of a con miserable trade, especially in a kind of broad cloth. called by its name. All the streets are good, but the market-place beyond them all. Next day, as ter riding six leagues he lay at Pouffol ; and setting out early on Friday the 3d he dined at Betters. T his is a populous, plentiful, and rich city, seated on a hill within three leagues of the sea: moving forwards he lay at Pyrenees, the day after he reached the famous city of Montpelier, the capital of Lower.,Langue-
Languedoc, which being seated on the top of a his yields a fine prospect. The town-house is not so good as that of Toulouse, and the cathedral isn't greatly ornamented. The walking-place without the gat' is one of the-finest nature and art could produce for the eye is delighted with a prosper of the sea and pleasant fields of a long delicious plain after dinner he hired another calash to Marseille for seven crowns, and-having gone four leagues he lay at Pont Lune. Monday the 6th, setting out early, and having passed the Rhone twice, once over a bridge of boats one hundred paces long, he came to Arles, a city of good trade and an arch. bishopric. Tuesday the 7th, travelling along the famous aqueducts, at the end of eight leagues he came to Salons, remarkable for the tomb of Nos tradamus the famous astrologer. Next day, after travelling nine leagues, he arrived at Marseilles, This city was built by the Phoenicians, and was very famous in former times for its schools, which vied with those of Rhodes and Athens. At pre sent it is one of the most celebrated ports in the Mediterranean, though so shallow that it must be often cleansed, to be able to admit small vessels. The compass of its walls is not-above two Italian miles up and down-the houses are very good, but the streets are narrow, crooked, and dirty. Here is the Darfenne, where the galleys are built, large enough to build as many as they need, and a covered dock, in which two galleys may be built at once. The magazines for timber and naval flores are very large, and the armory will furnish arms for ten thousand men gemelli would willingly have gone to see the St. Hume, or the cave where Mary Magdalen is said to have lived thirty years; but thinking every hour an age till he returned into his native country, he made the necessary provision in haste, andre on
on Sunday the I2th set out for Genoa on board a Tartan. Next day they were off Toulon, and in the morning, on Wednesday the 14th, were oppo. site to the town of Heres. On Thursday the isti, when day appeared, they were in sight of Antibes. Here the river Var divides Provence from the domi nions of Savoy. At Villa Franca they anchored, where every vessel going to, or coming from the west, is to pay two in the hundred. After dining and paying the duties they went aboard again, and came two hours before sun-set to Menace, a very strong place on a rock, the walls inaccessible on all sides, and with only one gate, up to which there is a very uneasy way; there are abundance of heavy cannon, besides small, all well mounted: the garrison consists of about nine hundred men, paid by the king of France. All next day they could get no farther than St. Nemo in the Genoese territory. On Friday the x7th, they coasted a great way in sight of curious gardens, made fruitful by th: industry of the Genoese, though the soil na tally be rocky and barren. They left Final be hind, and then the city Noli, and at last came early to Savona, where they passed the night. Having hired a felucca, he set out from Savona on Saturday the 18th betimes, and at length came to Genoa before noon genoa lies upon the Mediterranean, facing the south, and being seated on the side of a hill, looks from the sea noble theatre. All the buildings throughout its whole compass of four miles, are adorned with excellent marble, and a new wall be ng lately built of fifteen miles compafs,within it new buildings are erecting, no less beautiful. The worst is that the streets are narrow and dark. The port Ps above a mile in length, with a light-house on the veil end, and good fortifications. The city is called the Haughty, because the nobility, conceited of,their
their little dominion, are proud and intractable, though the territory does not extend to above one hundred and forty miles in length along the shore, and under twelve in breadth. The ladies are beau. tissue and witty, but their short way of speaking makes them ridiculous. The men are extremely frugal, and inclined to trade, which has gained them vast wealth. The doge's palace is one of the largest and most beautiful structures of Europe, The pharos or light-house is very remarkable; it is founded on a rock, defended by cannon, and raised four hundred and fifty feet high, in the top of which, at night, they set up thirty-two lights to dire the ships that sail by that coast.,WVednefday the 29th, his trunks being come by sea from Cadiz, he put them on board of a Neap. titan felucca to be carried to Naples, being resolved to go himself by land, because of the ill weather which had haired many days. Accordingly, on Thursday the roth, he hired a calash for Milan, and fLt out on-Saturday the St of November. As. ter several times crossing the river Polfevera, he struck over barren mountains, and having rode twenty miles, came at night to Taylio. Next day he went on to Gave. Monday the 3d, having pal. fed through Novi, Tortona, and Voghera, he lay E the wretched inn of Purana. WVednefday the 4th setting out betimes, and ferrying over the Po ani the Resin, he flopped and dined at Paria, a strong! city, enclosed with a broad wet ditch, and goI0 outworks; it is populous, rich, and adorned with good palaces, and of greater antiquity than Milan Its university is famous for having bred many learnt, men; and the town is memorable for having hel out the siege laid to it by Francis I. king of Franc in 1525. Riding ten miles after dinner hear before night to Milan,
The city of Milan is thought to have been built by the Gauls three hundred and ninety-five years after the building of. Rome. It is above eight miles in compass, containing about two hundred thousand inhabitants: this place is famous for four things, the multitude of its people, the magnificence of its cathedral, its impregnable castle, and its famous library called Ambrosial, containing at least thirty thousand volumes. The castle has six bastions, with twelve pieces of cannon upon each of them, and six half-moons, and the rampart wholly surrounded with a wide and deep wet ditch. At the entrance there are two high towers, with brick walls about twenty-four feet high, and cared with hard stone diamond cut. On these and the walls of the curtains, there are very heavy pieces of cannon. This cattle is generally looked upon as the best, the greatest, and safest of all the fort refines in Europe; and its armory, though at present not so full, is reputed sufficient to arm all Italy.,The great hospital, founded by the duke of Mi han, may be said to be one of the belt in Italy; it has a stately front outwards, and within is a great square court, with double rows of pillars, which support both the upper and lower arches, and both above and below are many galleries for the sick, besides apartments for those who serve the tick. Its revenue is said to be above one hundred and fifty thousand philippines. Half a mile from the city, without the Roman gate, they were making a burial place for those that died in the hospital, and the work is so great, that they had then laid ut two hundred thousand philippines upon it. The Lazaretto, for people infected with the plague, is other great flruaure, with above three hundred rooms about it. L The cathedral being two hundred cubits long, and one hundred and thirty in breadth, is count-sed
ed the eighth wonder of the world, for its large ness, curious marble, excellent statues, and other such ornaments, though it is not yet quite finished, after so many years, notwithstanding the great num. ber of artificers always employed, and the large revenue left for its fabrick. All the structure both within and without, up to the very roof, is adorned with excellent statues of half lengths, and other choice carving in marble wednesday the i2th, a coach setting out for Boa lorna, Gemelli went in it, paying a pistol for his place. Next day, ferrying over the Po, they came to Piacenza, seated on a plain, and about five miles in compass. The houses and streets were good, but ill inhabited. Here is a palace of the duke of Parma, magnificent both for structure and furniture. Leaving Piacenza, two days after they arrived at Parma, seated on a plain upon the Via Flaming, and of such an excellent air, that rome of its city. sens have lived to one hundred and twenty, and every to an hun ;red and thirty years of age. Its buildings are magnificent, the churches well adorn. ed, and the streets wide. The compass of it is about four miles, and the river Parma runs through the middle of it, whence it takes its name. The college is one of the finest structures that can be seen, both within and without. There are rooms enough for two hundred and sixty collegians of good birth, and for the professors, officers, and fera nts.,They set out late from Parma, and at five miles end, passing over a bridge where every traveller pays ten pence, they entered the dukedom of Mo. deny; and riding ten miles through well cultivated fields, they flopped at Regis, famous for its great fair, its good churches and streets, and fine pa. laces. Next day, having travelled fifteen miles they came early to Modena, seated on the Vil,2Emilia
Emilia: the. country is marshy, being level, and watered by two rivers. The town is between three and four miles in compass, and there is nothing re markable in its houses or narrow streets, unless-it be abundance of dirt. In the middle of it is a very high tower, made of rough marble, an argument of the antiquity of the place. Thursday the lath, jetting out betimes, and riding three miles, they ferried over the river Panaro, and three miles more entered upon the territory of Bologna; and riding fourteen miles farther they came before night to Bologna. This is a city of great antiquity, famous for its university, beauty, bigness, wealth, delight. fulness, and number of inhabitants, which amount? to eighty thousand. The buildings are of the best f Italy, all adorned with noble porticos. Gemelli meeting here with the messenger of florence, who was to set out the next day, re. solved to go along with him: accordingly on Wed essay the ruth they set out early, and after riding teen miles among the Appetite mountains, whose eepnefs does not hinder the country people from wing a great deal of corn upon them, they dined t Judano, and in the afternoon going forwards hey entered the dominions of the great duke, after having Shewn their certificate of health. Thursday the 20th they set out two hours before day, he wind blowing hard and cold; and having passed er the high mountain Giogo, which seemed like otus's court, and riding eighteen miles farther, they carme in the evening to the gates of Florence, There the trunks were narrowly searched. Florence is so beautiful, pleasant, and well built, hat, in the opinion of so great a prince as Charles /. it ought to be shewn only upon holidays, for it exceeds the noblest cities of Italy in spacious fleets, "magnificent palaces, stately churches, magnificence public structures, squares, fountains, and excel-lent
lent statues. It is seated in a plain encompass, with mountains, and is said to have been found by Scylla's Soldiers, six hundred and forty.fi years after the building of Rome. The triune made it a colony, and after the declining of their pire and rise of the Lombards, it became an im peril free city, and continued so till 1530, whe it was forced to submit to the power of Charles Its compass at present is about five miles, we walled with a ditch, and a firing castle, and inh bited by near a hundred thousand souls having hired a calash to Rome for twelve pinafore he went along with the messenger, who set out( Sunday the 23d before noon; they travelled oe hills and mountains naturally barren, but mad fruitful by the industry of the Florentines. Ne day they came early in the morning to Siena: th ancient city is seated on an ascent, the buildings few but good ; the third part of it being full of orc arts and vineyards. They travelled eighteen mil after dinner, and lay at the castle of Turning Tuesday the 25th, going out two hours before da they did nothing but go up and down hills, wit ra n and fog; and the rain continuing after ths hard ot into the plain, they lay at Aquapendent the rlt city of the patrimony of the church. Ne: da rid ing twenty seven miles through rain and snow thy,' i - at Viterbo, which is three miles in compas T uc rf(y the 27th they went five miles up a froze mczilut:;:-; and after riding thirty-five miles, the lay . --ccareo: next day by noon they camel Roche, ite queen of cities, and formerly head' the vworidc,Saturday the 29th Gemelli set out betimes, an travelling twenty miles lay at Bulletin, seated on mountain. :sunday the 30th, riding twenty)fe" miles he lodged at Piper, a town ill walled the side of a hill. Next day, having travel!,tweni 8
twenty-five miles, he lodged in the city of Fond in the kingdom of Naples. Setting out early on Tuesday the 2d, and riding thirty miles, he lay at Agate di Seffa. Wednesday the 3d he set forwards four hours before day by torch light, and came to dine at the city Capua, near the river Vultures. This city is more ancient than Rome, and enclosed with a good wall, and defended by a strong castle. It was reduced to servitude by the Romans for having entertained Hannibal, and came afterwards to be a colony, though it had vied with Carthage and Rome itself. Riding eight miles after dinner, through delicious plains, he came to Averse, and four miles from thence he began to meet his friends who were come out to honour him. After mutual embraces they took coach, and proceeding four miles farther, entered the long willed for city of Naples; and thus he finished his journey round the world, having spent in it five years, five months, and twenty days.,A VOYAGE
A VOYAGE round the World,begun in the Year 1708, by tw( Bristol Ships called the Duke an Duchess, Captain Woods Rogers H AP. I. The cccafim of this expedition: the Duke and Dutchfi,failfrom Inroad in the Bristol channel; they ar. rive at Cork are endangered by an ignorant pitt; names of the officers of the two hips; the manners the crew's behaving at Cork i the captain of thb Has kings very civil; he quits company; a Sweid Ship seized; a mutiny in consequence of parting with her; how quelled; the Duke's boatswain sent iz irons to Madeira : a Spanish bark taken; delay; about her ransom; ceremony of ducking under tll tropic: they arrive at the Cape de Verd ]lands; same account of them; a linguist deserts; regula. tions made in regard of plunder; a mate mutsiri and is punished; they come to anchor at Grande; the Portuguese mistake them for French; success 6f the French pirates; a monster killed; two deserter frightened by monkies; a Portuguese canoe fired a by mistake; procession at Angredekeys; that town described; the townspeople treated on shipboard. I Do not recollect any trading city in England,,that has been so forward to promote expect. tions for the improvement of commerce, and discovery of unknown lands, as Bristol, where, by the wealth which has been amassed by many private people in business, we may see that for-tune
tune is not always blind to desert, but sometimes (miles upon indufiry.,Among the many ships fitted out from that opulent city for adventure, few have made a more re markable voyage than the Duke and Duchess, which were tent out in concert, at the expence of a company of merchants, to cruise in the south seas, and officered with as experienced sailors as could possibly be collected. Woodes Rogers was appointed captain of the Duke, and commodore of the voyage. On board this ship sailed, in qua city of pilot, captain William Dampier, who had been twice round the world before, and three times in the South Seas; Thomas Dover a Doadoi of physic, a man of great skill and excellent sense, was second captain on board the Duke. The first captain on board the Duchess was Stephen Cour tenay, and the second captain Edward Cooke.,The crews of both ships were college from' various nations as well as trades, and amounted to three hundred and thirty-three men. The burthen of the Duke was three hundred and twenty tons, aud she carried thirty guns; the Duchess two hun died and sixty tons, and twenty-fix guns august gift, 1708, they weighed from Inroad, and on the 5th about noon, came to anchor in sight of Kindle; here, it being calm, a pilot came on board the Duke, who undertook to fleer her into the cove, instead of which, on the morning of the 6th, it being yet dark, and the weather foggy, he would have carried her into a bay to the westward of Cork, whereby She might have been in tome measure endangered, had not cap tain Rogers, who was happily better acquainted with the coast, chastised and prevented him, and brought her to anchor himself in the cove late in the afternoon vol. V1I. H During
During their slay in this harbour, they set th ship as much as possible to rights, flowed in a large quantity of provisions, and enlisted some good sail ors, having cleared themselves of above forty liz land-lubbers, some of whom they discharged, ant others ran away.,On the gift of September they weighed anchor from Cork, during their tay in which place, fe. vernal of the sailors got themselves wives, and parti. clearly a Dane, who was married to an Irifhwo. man, not a word of whofelanguage he understood, yet he grieved very much at being parted from her, and was several days at sea before he rightly reco0 vexed his spirits his majesty's flip the Hastings kept them corn any till the 6th; captain Paul, who command her, had supplied them with several necessaries, the want of which had been overlooked, such a! a speaking-trumpet, scrubbers, and iron scraper! for the flip's bottom, &c. nor would he accept any retaliation as they were going so long a voyage only desiring their owners might be made acquaint cd with his civilities, from whom a return would not be unpleasing; and accordingly they dispatched by him a letter addressed to alderman Satchel and company, and the rest of the proprietors the Duke and Duchess.,The evening of the preceding day, a councils ti the officers of both vessels was held on boar the Duke, in which it was resolved to acquaint thei respective crews of their intended course, in orde that they might exchange, with captain Paul aa hands that were averse to a course so long and dan serous; and it is remarkable that only one rnm on board Rogers's ship appeared discontented, an! the re;:fcn of tea. v.'as his having been chosen ti IthOr.,man c.f his car'lh that year, his wife being in co: sequence of his absence, liable to a fie,fort
forty pounds; however, he was soon reconciled, on considering he might be repaid by the profits of the voyage, in case it turned out to be successfully the both of September, about three in the afternoon, after a chace of nine hours, they came up with a Swedish flip, which brought to, after being fired at twice; from some words dropped by two or three of her hands whom they found drunk, three was some room to suspect the had contraband goods on board; but finding, after a firic examination of the malter and several of his men, that it would be very difficult to prove her a prize, and not thinking it worth while to delay, in order to carry her into port, they let her go without the least embezzlement. The malter seemed very thankful at being detained so short a time, and at his departure presented to captain Rogers some dried beef and two hams, in return for which he received a dozen of red-streaked cyder. She was a (hip belonging to Fat, of twenty-two guns, and tho hundred and seventy tons, had taken a sweep round Scotland and Ireland, and at her leaving the concert ships saluted them with four guns. While this flip was in custody, a design had been formed privately en board the Duke, headed by the boat Vain and three other inferior officers, to make a prize of her; and when they found that she was given up, they were near rising in mutiny: how ever, their proceedings were flopped by putting ten of them 'in irons, displacing Gyles Calli, the boatswain, to whom succeeded Alexander Winter, and by giving a-found whipping to another of the principal pointers. In a few days after these dispositions things began to run again in their proper channel.,Some inclination of the same nature appeared among the hands on board the Duchess, but it sub sided when those of the Duke were quelled.,H 2 Septem-september
the 14th, some of the this's company, headed by a bold daring fellow, came to the fleer. age door and demanded Gyles Cash the discarded boatswain out of irons; captain Rogers gave them good words, and having decoyed the ringleaders them to a private conference with him on the quam. ter-deck, he had him suddenly seized, and lashed by one of his own followers; after which piece of jus. time, he sent Gyles Cash in irons on board the crown galley of Biddeford, which had kept then company since the 6th instant, and left them on the lath, standing in for the Madeiras, an island that the concerts agreed to pass, chusing rather to cruize among the Canaries, for liquor, of which they stood in some wanton the i 7th, they thought they discovered a sail, but upon a nearer view found it to be a rock lying a league to the south-west of Salvage's Island. In the afternoon they gained sight of the Pike of Te. nerifF, and the following day they took a Spanish bark of twenty-five tons, bound from Oratava to the island of Forteventura, with forty-five passengers, among whom was the guardian of the aforesaid island, an honest merry friar, who took his glass chearfully, and made no scruple of drinking a health to king Charles III.,On the seth, standing in for Oratava, they Sent the mailer of the Spanish bark ashore, with two or three other prisoners, to agree about her ran som; he was accompanied by Mr. Carleton Van burgh, agent for the owners on board the Duke, who went against the will and judgment of cap tir. Rogers upon this errand; in consequence of which obstinacy, a flag of truce came off the island :; the morning of the 20th, with a letter direct :3 the captains Rogers and Courtenay, and sign,. Toulon vice-consul, Bernard Walsh, J-.- ^I :d G. Fitzgerald, signifying that Mr. Van-,brugh
brush should be detained ashore till the bark was restored, to keep which was not only against a pri late contra entered into between Spain and England relative to the Canaries; but would be of the greatest detriment, as well to the trading subjects of both crowns, as to several English merchants residing on there islands, of whom would be exact. ed a tenfold fatisfaflion.,To this epistle the captains agreed to answer, that, in keeping the bark, they acted up to their intrusions; that they knew nothing of any private article in favour of the ships, of these islands; and that, if measures were not taken to ransom her, and restore Mr. Vanbrugh, they would bring their guns to bear upon the town the ensuing day, and afterwards carry the Spanish prisoners (for the main penance of whom, as well as themselves, they were sufficiently victualled) to the English settlements whither they were bound; for they judicioullycon- ceased their intentions of cruising in. the. South Seas.,Septeniber the 22d, frr. Crosse, one of the En rail merchants who had signed the abovementioned letter, came off to them in a boat, bringing with him Mr. Vanbrugh, together with Come wine, hogs, grapes, and other necessaries, to ranomn the bark; at the desire of that gentleman, whatever could be recovered of the effect belonging to any of the prisoners were returned to them, particularly the crosses, reliques, and books of the friars; and to the merry guardian of Forteventura, captain Rogers made a present of a cheese. On the 24th, a committee was held on board the Duke, wherein Mr. Van )rough' complaints against captain Rogers for some h;ing, which he supposed wrong in this treaty, were judged to be groundless ; and the captain una piously acquitted.,H 3 Septem-september
the 25th they passed the tropic, ant about sixty of the crew, who had never been this course before, were ducked three times, by hoitl ing them half way up the main-yard, with a rope to which they were well fastened, and shouting them into the water-this immersion was of special ser vice to some of them, cleansing them from the filth and dirt which they had necessarily contrasted in so long a voyage. Such as chose to pay half a crown a-piece, to be spent among the flip's crew in a merry-making, on their return to England, were excused from this purifying ceremony. On the :9th, a sailor fell from the main top-gallant into the sea, and was drowned; it was 'supposed he hai been suddenly seized with a fit. The same morning they came in sight of the Cape de Verd Islands, and on the roth anchored in the bayou St. Vincent.,Octoler the gift, they sent ashore their empty cafes, to be cleansed and filled with water, of which, as well as wood, there is in this place great :plenty. On the 3d, it was agreed to dispatch Jo 'sept Alexander their linguist, with a very respectful letter to the governor of these islands, pra ing leave to trafic, as being subjects of Great Britain, and allies to the crown of Portugal. During their stay in this place their linguist deserted, but for what reasons were never known. The deputy go. vernon, who was a negro, came on board the Duke, bringing with him limes, oranges, tobacco, potatoes bonnes, mug-melons, water-melons, fowls, hogs, and brandy, for which he was paid in prize. goods of little value, and was very well satisfied. Here were also made, in a committee held on board the Duchess, certain regulations relating to prizes and plunder; and measures were taken to prevent the sailors from selling their cloaths to the negros and natives of there islands, for brandy and other,trifle,
trifles, which, though not over-flocked, they were vastly prone to do. These poor people in general prefer any thing to cover them, and a few necessaries to money.,Of there islands we need not say much, they being already sufficiently known; they are ten in number, hut only six of them, viz. St. Jago, St. Nicholas, Botanist, St.-Antonio, Bravamayo, and Fuego, so called from its volcano, are inhabited. St. Jago and St. Nicholas are the molt populous, the former is the seat of the governor, and besides the capital, which is a bishop's see, and bears the same name with the island, here is a large town, said to con tain five hundred houses and upwards; it is called Ribera Grande, and has a good harbour., The soil is but indifferent; some corn and grapes thrive in the vallies, and the principal commodities are indigo, filgar, tobacco, and goat.skin, from which is made the fine maroquin leather. Their goats are fat and well-tasted; they yean once in four months, bringing forth three or four kids each time many ships take in yearly a lading of salt in the island of Mayo, where it is produced naturally by the fun operating on the sea-watershed island of St. Vincent is a better road for flip ping than St. Jago ; it abounds with Guinea hens, curlews, and various sorts of sea-fowls. The only game that rome of the Duke's people, who went ashore for that purpose, could Part, was a wild als, which, though wounded, escaped, after having led them a most fatiguing chace. This island was formerly inhabited, and had a governor of its own, but it has been deserted for bone years, except by a few negroes, who live by catching tortoises and wild goats. The land is mountainous and barren, nor can much be said in praise of its air; great part of it is over-run with wood, which is fit for little + else
else but burning, and between the trees there are cobwebs, spun by a very large sort of spider, f0 thick and strong that is not without difficulty they are broken through. The heat of the climate made a considerable impression on several of the sailors who had never faced it before; however, bleeding relieved them.,On the 8th of October, the deputy-governor was set ashore, near a rocky cavern, where he observe. ed he was to rest for that night, there being no houses any where near him; and then the ships set sail. On the 22d Mr. Page, second-mate of the Duchess, being ordered to a birth on board the Duke, refused to change his (hip, and struck cap. tain Cooke for insisting that he should: however he was mastered and put into the boat; captain Rogers condemned him to the bilboes, but before the fen. hence could be put in execution, he leaped over. board, with an intention to regain the Duchess, where he perhaps might have done some mischief, by exciting the men to mutiny, all her officers be. ing on board the Duke; however, the boat which was along side fun followed and overtook him, and having once again brought him before his superior officers, he was forthwith tied up to the main-peers, there heartily lashed, and then confined in irons in the Duke's hold, where he lay till the 29th, on which day he was set at liberty, having promised to behave better for the future november the 2d, two persons were ordered in. to the bilboes, it being discovered that they had concealed two shirts, a peruke, and a pair of flock kings, part of the plunder of the Canary prize, but they were discharged on begging pardon. The 14th they had sight of the land of Brazil, and on the i8th came to anchor in the middle of the entrance of the island of Grande, in eleven fathom water, :here being but little wind. On the 20th, two,boatrs
boats, in one of which was a lieutenant, in the other Mr. Dampier, were dispatched to the water king-place, to see that it was clear of enemies. Here they found a Portuguese boat, that complain. ed they had been lately robbed by the French. It rained all day so hard that the men could not work ;; and about four in the afternoon captain Courtenay put several hands, whom he had remarked as being generally most forward in mutiny, into irons for disobeying command. In the evening it cleared' up, and a pinnace with captain Cooke and lieutenant Pope was dispatched to Angre de Reys, called: by the Portuguese Nostra Senior de la Conceptions. a village about three leagues distant,. with a present: (;f butter and cheese to the governor, and a request of his friendship. As they came near the shore,, the inhabitants mistaking them for French, fired on them several times, but did them no damage, entreating their pardon when they discovered their: mistake; and a friar, who entertained them very. civilly, for the governor was gone to Rio de Janeiro a city twelve leagues farther off, told them they had very lately been plundered and abused by the Frenchmen the 22d of Oaober, several of the inhabit wants came off from the town in canoes, bringing" with them limes, fowl corn, &c. which they ex changed for trifling necessaries: to these captain: Rogers and Courtenay behaved with much civility,. promising handsome gratuity to such of' ten as. should secure any of their men who might desert. 'I here are several gold mines. up the country, to, work wherein a Portuguese vessel that came to an cor here on the 234; brought-a cargo of: negroes;, our pinnace was fitted out and armed to enquire' whence flie came; to, which question her captain gave a very satisfactory answer and sent a pat of sweetmeats, and some very fine sugar, as a presents: 5. toto
the English commanders. The Portuguese are very careful in concealing their gold, and the roads leading to their mines, from all other nations, one of them affirming it to be a journey that would take up a month, others but fifteen or twenty days from Santa, the sea-port town, to these vast sources of wealth. Some French buccaneers, that not long before this time had put in here to water, in less then a month seized above twelve hundred pounds weight of gold in boats; for the land road leading from the mines to Rio-janeiro is very bad, and almost impaffab'e.,The 24th of this month, as the I lips were clean. ing, Meters. Dover and Vanbrugh went pleasuring in the pinnace, and returned with a creature that trunk in tolerably; the skin of it was all fur, stuck fui! of quills cr sharp prickles like a hedge-lo, and irs head was like a monkey's. The Portuguese, among whom were three or four Franciscan friars, who came very civilly to the side of the (hips, as f.rmtd it to be delicious food, the bad smell arising only shorn the skin; however, none of the sailors were sufficiently flharpfet to try it.,Tihe 25:h, two men deserted from the Duchess, but were so terrified by the noir made by the mon lies and baboons in the woods, which they mistook for the ho.-w!inG of tygers, that in the night they ran as far as they could into the water, hailing the f Dp, and praying to be taken on board again, Tv,) Irishmen. by name Michael Jones and James ro .vn cot (st from the Duke, the same day, into rls wvoo0c, but were surprized upon the strand, where lev waited for a Portuguese canoe to carry t:tm elsewhere, in two days after, and being br, ug:t before captain Rogers, that gentleman gave them a sharp reprimand, had them severely whip re, a:d afervr'ards laid in irons.,T!;e
The day before these fellows were re-taken, the pinnace and yawl were dispatched after a canoe, in which the captain suspected they lurked, as it scudded away very hard to escape; the former fired at hier, and wounded one of the Indians that rowed her, who died in about two hours after; he that elected was a friar, who ran the canoe ashore, and efckaed into the woods; but he was brought back ly another Portuguese, who told him they were English. The boat's crew were brought on board the Duke, and civilly entertained by captain Ro gers: however, the friar was not to be consoled: for the loss of his slave, and Tome gold which he had got by visiting the mines, and either lost in. this buffle, or buried in the place on which he had ran the canoe: however, he threatened to seek re dress in Portugal or else in Enaland.,The 27tli, captain Rogers, Captain Courtenay, and some other officers, went in their boat to Angre de Reys, to see a procession held in honour of the conception of the Virgin Mary. The Portuguese governor treated them with great politeness, and de hired that their music, which confined of two trumpets and a hautboy, might be permitted to assails at divine service instead of an organ, which request was granted. When church was over, the musicians who were by this tina made half-drunk, marched at the head of the process-in, wherein were horne lamps of incense; a hoff; and an image of the holy Virgin, adorned with flowers and wax candles, supported on a bier by four men; to which pageant succeeded the guardian of the convent, fol loved by about forty princess an] friars, the gower nor of the town, captain Rogers, captain Courte nay, and the other officers of the snips, each of t:iom, out of complaisance carried a wax taper; t::e rear was closed by some junior priests, and the Ililicipal inhabitants, every one with his corne-,H 6 cra.id
crated candle. When the ceremony was over. there was a handsome entertainment provided for the English gentlemen at the convent, and another by the governor, at the guard-house, where these mere then quartered twenty men, with a lieut. nant and an ensign; for the governor's residence was three miles farther off.,The town of Angre de Reys consists of about sixty low houses, covered with palmetto leaves, poorly built, and worse furnished; perhaps they had secreted their best moveables, as they had been stately ravaged by the French. Here are two churches, and a monastery of Franciscans, near, decent, and plainly furnished. The fathers had tome black cattle, of none of which they chose to dispose the duke now fell down to the entrance of Grande by the side of the Duchess, and then the boat went back to the town 'for liquor, and an in. vexation to the principal gentlemen to come on board, which they did, and were extremely merry.; in their cups they toasted the Pope's health; and captain Rogers, to be even with them, drank to the archbishop of Canterbury, and William Penn, the head of the people called quakers, all which loaf's they pledged with great good humour and good nature. At parting, the captain made the fathers of the convent a present of some butter and cheese; and as the weather was.hazy, the whole. company lay on board all night, but in the morn ii-i they were lent ashore in the boat, quite enraptured with the agreeable treatment they had met w-:ith, and promising to take great care of some let tars gi:.en haem in charges H A. P.
CH A P. II. i:Mr. Vanbrugh turned over to the Duchess; the flip quit the island of Grande; a description of that island; alo of the river of amazons; thefir/t discovery of that river by Francis Orellana; his va pious adventures in this expedition ; his death. N November the roth, a committee was held on,board the Duchess, wherein Mr. Vanbrugh's. contra, in firing at the Portuguese canoe, was examined and condemned; and it was afterwards una piously agreed, that, to prevent ill blood, that gentleman Should be turned over to the Duchess, and that the company's agent in that flip, Mr. Wil siam Bath, should take his place in the Duke; which being done, both ships got under weigh, with little or no wind, but came to anchor again in about two hours: however, they took the advantage of a gale springing up at earl and be north De member the 3d, and soon distanced the island of Grande, fleering for Juan Hernandez. The island of Grande is a remarkable high land, on which there is a good deal of wood, inhabited by monkies and other wild beasts, with oranges, le mons, and guavas growing wild; here are also plan pains, bonnes, pine-apples, Indian-corn, and bread fruits; fowls and hogs are scarce, but sheep and oxen indifferently plenty. T he wind veered but little between north and east during the slay here of the hips, and the weather was excessively hot. There being a very full account of Brazil, to Tvhich the island of Grande properly belongs, in the memoirs * of Mr. Nieuhoff, it were nedi1efS ' Vide vol. iv. of this ColleiQon, from.page-8, to }o, and from 169 to i 89.,here
here to repeat it; however, as the river of Ama. sons is the northern boundary of that country, and of prodigious consequence to trade, a few words e-. native to its situation and course, as well as to the different nations inhabiting its banks, will not, it is hoSed, be thought superfluous, or an impertinent introduction the river of Amazons is certainly one ofthe greatest in the world; it derived its name from a fierce and warlike sort of women, not unlike the famous female warriors of old, formerly supposed to have inhabited its banks ; but who, from the mel accurate accounts, appear to have existed onlyin fancy, and the fiery of them was perhaps an invent. tion of the natives, calculated to deter the Spaniards from penetrating farther into the country: it takes its rise at the foot of the Cordillera, or chain of mountains eight or ten leagues east of Qlitoin Peru, and after a meandring course of eighteen hunÂ· died leagues, empties itEilf into the Atlantic ces by eighty-four different mouths after the excursion made by Gonzalo, the bro. ther cf francis Pizarro, over the stupendous nmcu. pains that unr.d the province of Los Quixcs to ths northward, he found the cold so intolerable, that he was obliged to leave his cattle, together v;i the best part cf his baggage and provision, behind him, and to shrike into the valley of Zumaque, from whence he pursued his way to the province of Coca, the cacique of which v. as very kind to him, furnishing him with as much provision aske could possibly aims,. and assuring him, at the fare time, that i the either embarked. cn the river, which watered these Fli:in, or coasted among hit, it w'u in a short face crier him into c e of the mo-o pcFo c tissue, as wall as one cf tic riches countries tIe fun e er shone upon, the inhabitants of it bei'ii comer with plates of gold.,Tbir
This information was sufficient stimulate Gon halo in his progress, his sole view being, if possible, to make himself as considerable as his brother, by new discoveries and conquests. Having made the cacique a present of a fine sword, in return for his civility, he put himself at the head of his cavalry, ad began his march by the side of the river Coca, the country every where round him appearing like a second paradise: but, alas ! this was but a transitory scene: the face of things began soon to change; the verdure and woodlands degenerated into fan's and desarts, and the roads to grow craggy and un even, crossed often by rivulets, over which they were obliged to swim, whereby his people were considerably harassed, having no canoes, nor be ing able to find either fords, inhabitants, or, what was till worse, provisions for more than forty three days. At the end of this space of time, they arrived at a part of the river where it was but twenty feet wide, the stream being pressed by a rock on each side, through which it precipitated into a valley from a height of two hundred fa thomas. Over this water-fall Gonzalo contrived to throw a bridge, the admirable future whereof has met with prodigious encomiums from many S,anili historians; and on it he passed his troops to the opposite shore; but the prospect did not at a!! mend from the change; the country wore the same desart face, without admitting even a hope of an improvement, while the wants of his company daily encreased, and provisions grew more and more fcdrce,,this chain of disappointments induced him to set his people to work upon building a brigantine, sir the easier carriage ot his sick men down the dream, and with them he also embarked all his baggage, provisions, and Gold, wil fifty soldiers by way of guard, all under the command of Fran-,I ci
cis Orellana, a man of a good family in Truxillo, in Old Spain, whom he shrilly charged never to bfe sight of the main body of adventurers, but to make the same shore every night, and repair to the camp. He obeyed his general's orders for some time very exactly, till, upon circumstances grow. ing worse and worse, he was commanded to sail down the river in search of provisions and inhabitants agreeable to which injunctions he launched into the middle of the stream, and was, by its ra. rapidity, in three days, carried more than three hundred leagues, without using either fails or oars; He arrived at length in another river, much larger; but not so swift, the course of which he followed for more than a day; at the-end of which space, finding it widen still more,, he determined within himself to trace it to the sea, never once remembering either duty, gratitude, or the distressed si tuition of his general, nor yet paying any regard to the remonstrances made him on that head by.feve- rat of his people, to whom he represented the impost nobility of sailing lip the space, which in a few days they had come down, in less than many months as well as the probability of the general's coming up v.ith them on the banks of this new river, which, said he, his excellency could not possibly miss: however, he was strongly opposed in his.defign of proceeding, by Gaspar de Carvajal- a: friar, and Ferdinand Sanchez de Vargas, who formed a divi sion in this little vessel, and would have succeeded in their design of returning to Gonzalo with the provisions they had gathered, had not. Orellana broke the party, by setting Ferdinand ashore in a most dreary wilderness, bounded on one side by ve-ry high hills, on the other by a broad river, leaving him neither-arms nor provisions, and it is very probable he expired for want: he had'more prudence than to treat the friar-in this manner, on ac-,counI
count of his habit; but he intimated to him, that presuming to fathom the intentions of his commander would be attended with a revere chastisement ,Having in this manner smothered the intended revolt of his people, he began. to explain to them his intentions, by telling them, fortune had, as it were, led them on to one of the greater and most desireable discoveries ever made in the Indies, viz. the great river whereon they now failed, which. rising in Peru, and running from west to east, form ed undoubtedly a passage from the southern to the northern sea, by the finest channel in the world, opening to them an opportunity of reaping a har vest of wealth, which the adjacent countries would certainly afford, and which to think of sharing with any others, would be injustice done to them.alls by giving away those favours wherewith heavens seemed to indulge them particularly. These were arguments that not only quieted all the murmurs of his people, but also inflamed each individual f them with a share of that ambition and avarice whi' h war;,meu is u ;.:: ic a, r.,His necessities soon after forcing him ashore, for seven of his men died through want, they having been obliged to feed upon the leather they had on board, a desperate skirmish ensued between him and the natives, who fought with long fields, bows, and arrows, in which however he got so much. the: better, that he brought off a considerable. quantity of provisions but was pursued till he passed. the frontiers of this country, which is called, Machiparo, by eight thousand Indians in an hundred and thirty canoes: eighteen of his men were wounded in this fray, but they soon recovered having relied three days in a. town, at a good distance from this country, which the inhabitants had abandoned, he again launched into the middle of the stream, and the following day went alhore,at
at a village where he found force curious earthen ware finely painted, several monstrously shaped idols, and some few provisions, which he carried off by force: here also they saw some gold and ill. ver, and was told by. one or two of the natives, who chanced to fall into his hands, that the count. try abounded with both these sorts of metal. From hence he sailed on an hundred leagues farther, till he reached the land of Pagan, where he was very civilly treated, and readily furnished with whatever necessaries he flood in need of.,Some days after he came to the' mouth of a river, the stream whereof was as black as ink, and so ra. pit, that for-upwards of twenty leagues it did not commix with that of the Amazons. In his passage he landed at many towns, one of them particularly was surrounded with a wall of timber, and afforded him plenty of fine fish; in another he found only women, among whom he had some notion of taking up his quarters at least for a while, when their husbands, who had been out upon rome expedition, a"w22 t ".l:J. EA Evening, and attacking Orellaia, forced him to take refuge on board his brigantine, in which he continued his voyage, and saw, as he passed, many great towns, with paved roads, planted with fruit-trees; and attempting to. land, he was opposed by the natives, but their leader be ing killed, the followers dispersed, leaving Ortolan at liberty to carry off whatever provisions he could find.,He now received frequent informations of white people inhabiting hereabouts, whom, by the defcrip tion given of them, he believed to be Spaniards When he had sailed, according to the best compute' tion he could make, near fourteen hundred leagues without having any prospect of the sea, he was' tacked one night that he encamped ashore by a lare Lady of the natives, headed by twelve white '
men, of an athletic size, who fought with great re solution, till seven of them fell, and then the rest fled with their followers.,It is very probable there women were no more than the wives of the generals of these people, since it is common in the Indies for the women to ac company their lords to the field, as well as to en gage in battle by their sides upon an emergency. This little incident, however, worked so strongly on the romantic brain of our Spaniard, that he con cured up a fate of female warriors, inhabiting the banks of this river, of whom he gave a very for mal account; but as this nation has been invisible to all other travellers, there is no probability of its having existed any where, but in the fruitful fancy of Orel.ana ; and this river, which would other wise have been distinguished to his immortal ho your by his name, was from henceforward called the River of Amazons.,In a country wherein he arrived on St. John's day, which he therefore particularized by the name of that saint, he had a skirmish with te t,, hrs, whereby he lost several of his men, and his chaplain had one of his eyes thrust out with a spear. Soon after this engagement, Come islanders attacked him in canoes, having drums, trumpets, and' other mu. fiscal increments to inspire them; but though their number was seven or eight thousand, the kept them off with his fire-arms. From the'i;ext province which he reached, lying on the left side of the ri ver, and having many large towns, the people came off in canoes to gaze upon him, and then they discharged orme poisoned arrows, whereby he lost one of his men; and to cover himself from there missile weapons of death, he was forced to barricade his boats. He now discerned the tide; and as he came to the mouth of the river, having lost mores
of his men by poisoned arrows in his progress, he found the people more civilized, and ready to fur nisi him with provisions.,In August I541, he found a clear passage to the sea, and having coasted round the north cape, he flood over to the island of Trinidad, where having purchased a flip, he set sail for Spain, and made such a report of the value and wealth of his disco. verses, that the emperor Charles V. gave him a moR ample patent to settle colonies thereupon, &c. In consequence whereof, anno Ice, he returned to the River of Amazons; but this expedition was from the beginning unfortunate; a contagious dis. temper first swept away numbers of his men, where. by he was obliged to forsake two ships out of three, wherewith he set out, and his company was at last reduced to a little bark, which being cast away upon the coast of Malacca, he soon after died him self out of meer despair, though he survived mot of his followers; in rome few Spanish authors, th; River of Amazons is now called OQiljlag,CHAP.
C H A P. III. - Lewis le Melt fails to the River of amazons to make,diccoveries; but miscarried; Pedro de Orfua goes upipn the same expedition; is privately murdered; one of his assassins assumes the title of king, and is killed by Lopez the tyrant, closets up in his place: he murders his daughter; is taken, tried, condemn ed, and executed; fonte private adventurers from Cufig, and two jesuits make separate excursions along the banks of the river of Amazons, but have no success the expedition cf captain John de Palais; his death; count Clinton ajfils his followers, as does the government of Brazil: of the products of the countries lying on the banks of this river; the customs and manners of the people; the progress made by the jfrits herein; their mission; the temperature of the climate, and the course of the river described.,H E ill success of Orellana did not prevent others from following his steps. John III. of Portugal, to which kingdom by treaty belonged all such land as lay between the river de la Plata, and the mouth of the Orellana, sent thither Lewis de Melt with ten ships, eight of which he lost at the mouth of the river, and with the two others went to the island of St. Margaret to-refit, where he was deserted by most of his men, and all his designs fell consequently to the ground.,Some gentlemen of New Grenada afterwards tried their luck here without any success. But these disappointments had no effect upon Pedro de Orfua, a Navarre, whose birth and education were,both
both good, his courage unquestioned, and of hi prudence he had given many proofs. This gentle man weighed his undertaking well before he put i in execution; and when he published it, so uni verbally was he beloved, and so great was his repu nation, that people of all ranks subscribed liberals] towards the support of it, and soldiers of tried va lour repaired from every quarter to inlift under hi banner she departed from Cusco anno 1560, with fever hundred soldiers, and a good number of horses, at. tended by the prayers and acclamations of all the inhabitants. Never did any expedition,, fetonfcoo in these countries, bid fairer for success; his plan were laid so judiciously, that had he not been ruined by treachery, he and his followers had reap. ed immortal honour, as well as acquired immense riches.,In his train was a young Spaniard named Tertii nant de Guzman, and one Lopez D'Aquira, s ill-looking Bifcayner, whom he made his ensign these two wretches falling in love with his lady who was a noble example of conjugal fidelity, ann followed her husband every where, engaged foro part of his army to revolt; in the confusion p0 Orfua fell by the hand of an affair. Whether a no the gratification of their lust was the consequent of this murder, history does not say; but it inform us that Ferdinand de Guzman immediately affui ed the title of king, which mock dignity been toyed a very short time; for he was privately kills by those very persons-who had raised him, and LI pes D'Aquira succeeded him, who straightway gaD his followers to understand, that his intention w to possess himself of Guiana, Peru, and of Ne Grenada, the riches of which countries should divided, he said, among them.,Net
Never was sway more bloody nor tyrannical than that exercised by Lopez, wherefore he is even at this day remembered by the Spaniards under the name of the Tyrants Being himself meanly born, he had a sort of innate antipathy to gentry, and murdered almost all who could pretend to thatrank in his army, keeping continually about him a band of russians, by way of body-guards, and becoming so jealous of his new dignity, as well as fearful of his life, that if any of his people only talked toge ther privately, he suspected them of plotting against him, and had them immediately taken off by treachery nor did even the women escape his cruelty ; for liberal of them, whom the fatigue cf travelling weakened and disordered, he abandoned to the fa vagc mercy of the natives, helpless and unprovided of every necessary.,He embarked in Orfua's vessel, upon the river Coca, which soon brought him into the River A- nazon, the current whereof he not being able to sharer, it carried him forceable into the great channel leading to the North Cape, from whence he failed to the island of Margaret, the place where he landed being still called the Tyrant's Port. Here the governor mistaking him for one of the king's servants, treated him with great respect and hospitality. The return which he made thereto, was to murder not only his excellency himself, but also his father and all his friends; and then, with the assistance of John Burg, another villain, ravaged the whole island, committing the most horrid barbarities, as well in the island of Guiana as here; from whence passing over to the coast of Carrack, he laid it waste, together with all the provinces lying upon the river Venezuela and Baccho. He the entered Martha, where he put all to the fv.'ord; and having designs next upon Quite, he continued,his
his march through the kingdom of New Grenada; where he was forced to a pitched battle, his who army entirely defeated, and he himself caught, a it were, in a toil, finding no possibility of escaping every pass being shut up, addressed himself thus tl a darling daughter, who had attended him final his adventures," Daughter, no father's affection ever transcend cc ed mine for you; whom to place upon a thron( ' was my principal view, and the chiefs of m) " wishes: since fortune has cruelly traversed m) " designs, it were injustice to let thee live the "b hateful save of exulting enemies, who will I' brand thee with being the daughter of a traitor, " and of a tyrant. To save thee, child, from this cc ignominy, is mercy; from it there is no safety ' but in death; if thou hast not sufficient courage " with thy own hand to administer the remedy, " thy father's arm shall do the friendly office." The poor girl, thunder-struck with this speech, en. treated a few moments might be allowed her to .pray to heaven; which petition he granted; but imagining her conference with God too long, he shot her, she being till upon her knees, with a ca rapine, and then stabbed her to the heart with his dagger. Soon after this filicide he was taken pri. sooner, and carried to the island of Trinidad, were he had a good estate, and after a short trial, con. denned to be quartered, and the houses which be longed to him were razed to the ground and strewed with fait, that no remains of what had appertained to such an earthly fiend hould be traced in futurity the next attempt for discovery upon the river of Amazons was set on foot by the people of Cuf co in 1566, but it was disconcerted by the leaders quarreling among one another, whereby they be-came
came a prey to, and were cut in pieces by, the hia. times, only two priests, and one of the captains named Maldonado coming off alive.,By command of the king of Spain two generals were sent up this river next, but the many cross accidents which they met with, rendered all their schemes abortive about the year 1606, says Ovalle, two jesuits set out from Quito, upon a mission in there provinces, one of whom was massacred by the natives, the other very narrowly escaped with his life.,In I635, captain John de Palaces went from Quito to this river, with a few armed men and some Franciscan friars; but he was murdered at Annette in 1636, with all his followers, two friars and six soldiers excepted. There last got a small vef. fel that carried them to Para the capital of Brasil; the governor of which place, relying on their report of the situation of affairs, furnished them with four canoes, seventy Spaniards, and twelve hun died Indians, to pursue the expedition, wherein, the year following, they were considerably assisted by the count de Clinton viceroy of Peru, by whose appointment father D'Acunha, rector of the college of Cuen:a, and another jesuit, set out for Para, where having collected the best information possible, touching this last expedition, he embarked for Spain, where anno 1640, he published his ac count of this rivers re we find, that on its banks grows a tree called andirova, which is an excellent cure for wounds; also plenty of red-wood, cedar of pro. vicious thickness, brazil, log-wood, iron-wood, so called from its hardness, all kinds of timber-trees, and trees of the bark of which may be made cor date and fails; here were also found cotton-trees. The inhabitants make hatchets with tortoise shell edges, or with hard stones ground fine, with pro-vol. VII. I vicious
vicious labour. They have also chisels, and other instruments for carpenters work, made oi the teeth and horns of wild bears. The chiefs and directors of their religious worship are for. ceres, by whom they are taught that revenges meritorious, and instructed in the most ingenious methods of poisoning their enemies. Some of them keep the bones of their deceased friends in their houses, others burn them, with every thing belonging to them; and having mourned for their deaths a short while, conclude the lamentation with a drinking bout, wherein they are seldom flinch ers.,Some of those people, the Omaguas for example, whose country is very populous, and near two hundred and sixty leagues long, live by trafficking with their neighbours, and dress themselves decent. ly in cotton; others of them wear golden. plates at their ears and nostrils, and slew themselves good mechanicks in making chairs, all sorts of houshold furniture, and representations of animals. Theses suits inform us, that the natives of the Amazons river are in general courteous and good natured; they also say, that its banks, on each side, from the city Jan in the province of Bracamoros, where it begins to be navigable, down to the sea, are cover ed with tall trees of many useful species, among which may be numbered cloves and sarsaparilla: the woods also abound with tygers, buffaloes, wild boars, &c.,1638 was the firs year the jesuits attempted to preach the gospel hereabouts, and they have succeeded wonderfully ; their mission, which daily en larges itself, extending along the banks of three other great rivers; and their capital city St. Fran cis of Borja, in the province of Man's, being three hundred leagues from Quito, whence they set out. They often make very hazardous voyages in canoes,,among
among these rivers, some of them often falling victims to the cruelty of the,favages, as was the case of eight of these reverend fathers who were mur tered in 1707. .Their industry has been prodigious having themselves founded thirty-nine towns, and civilized by their preaching and instructions, the people whom they have brought to inhabit them; and besides the .many converts they have made, they have moreover contracted friendly al lances with many different nations, for whose con version they have room to hope. The Portuguese have Come towns at the mouth of this river, and a sort upon Rio Negro; and of late they have ex tended their, commerce as far as Quito, and several other distant places in Peru.,The banks of this river are well inhabited by multitudes of people, who are neither so polite au those of Peru, nor yet so barbarous as those of Bra zil; they live upon fruit, corn, and roots, are all idolaters, but pay little or no refpea to their idols, except when they are going to war. The different nations are reckoned by Canons and others to be about an hundred and fifty, with villages so very thick as to be in call of one another. Among these the Homages a nation near the head of the river, are famous for their cotton manufactures. The Wrofipares for their earthen ware; the Shrines, who live betwixt latitude five and ten, for their joiners work; and Topinambes, who inhabit a large ille upon this river, are remarkable for their strength: they make war upon one another, fighting with darts, javelins, bows and arrows, and wearing tar gets of cane or fifi-skin; they make slaves of their prisoners, whom they use otherwise very well.,It is common for the petty kings, who live near the firearms that empty themselves into this great river, to decide their quarrels by battling on the water in canoes, and the conqueror generally con-,I 2 eludes
eludes the war by eating up the conquered. Their marks of regality are a crown of parrots feathers, a chain of lions teeth or claws hung round the neck, or girt about the middle, and a wooden sword in their hand. Both sexes go naked; tht women wear very long hair, and their breasts are as long as their hair; but they pluck their hairs from the crown. The men thrust pieces of cane though their ears and under-lips, as well as through the skin of the pudenda. At the gristle of their noses they hang glass beads, which wag to and fro when they speak. They are great thieves, but rangers to the use of money, bartering one ne cesare for another, and glass beads will go a wait way in purchasing from them commodities, They are such skilful marksmen, that they will shoot fIsh as they swim, and what they catch they eat without bread or salt. Their woods consist of every species of useful and valuable timber, the circumference of many of the trees being five or six fathom. They also abound with delicate veni son, and variety of wild fowl, among which we reckon parrots, whereof here are vast plenty, as delicious morsels. Their honey is finely flavoured and very medicinal; they have a balm which they reckon a panacea, and no part of America whatsoever has better corn and roots. Their lakes and rivers are filled with the wholesome fish, and the manatee and tortoise abound upon their banks; but the fishermen muss be upon their guard against the crocodiles, alligators, and water-serpents, which also swarm here. Their gardens are always in bloom, and their fields are crowned with unfading verdure that which pesters them worst is the muskets, for they are more free from venomous insets than either Peru or Brazil.,The
The-air of the country in general is temperate, though in: the mid of the torrid zone; this perhaps is owing to the'multitude of rivers that water it, and which annually swelling over their mounds scatter fertility all around. Perhaps the east winds, which blow most part of the day, contribute, as much as any other cause, to the salubrity of'the. climate. The first course of this river is from west to east, then it bends to the southward, and after a while directs its main course east to the At antic ocean, into which it falls by a mouth be tween fifty and sixty leagues broad, stretching from the north cape on the coast of Guiana, to Cape Za- parara on the.coaft of Brazil. Its mouth lies alios: under the equator, and its main stream is in the fourth and fifth degree of south latitude; its channel from Junta de los Keys, about sixty degrees 'from its head, to the river Marathon, is from one to two leagues broad; it then widens from three to four, and grows gradually broader as it approaches the ocean. From Junta.de los Repos to Marathon,. its depth is from five to ten fathom: between the latter and Rio Negro it encreases to twelve and deepens to twenty fathoms; after which it is some times thirty, sometimes fifty fathoms, and sometimes more in depth, till it comes near the Atlantic: it has no sand banks, nor does the shore shelve so as to make it dangerous for the vessels that approach it. The rivers that run into it are from one hundred to six hundred leagues long, and one that fall into it, on the north side, rise in the first and second degree of north latitude ; on the south side omne of them begin in the tenth, fifteenth, and others in the one and twentieth degrees of south latitude having been so ample in our description of the River of Amazons, otherwise the Orellana, which is the northern boundary of Brazil, it were injustice 3 should
should we omit to say something the southern boundary of this rich country, which is the river Plata; it lies within the limits of the South Sea company, and is finely situated for opening a trade from the North Sea with Peru, Chili, and other vast countries, which are inexhaustible mines of wealth chap. IV. 7hs river Plata described; the ;.: y virtues of is waters; of Buenos Ayres and its trade; a description of Paraguay; the vail power and policy of the jesuits in that country; a character of the inhabitants the fruits, birds, beasts, &c. of Para. guay.,HE river Plata, otherwise Rio de la Plata, begins near a town of the same name, which is a sort of metropolis, confiding of several hand. some buildings, besides fifteen churches and four nunneries. It lies in nineteen degrees south latitude From hence to Buenos Ayres, the distance is five hundred leagues, and the times necessary to paTs from one to the other, is about ten weeks. It was called de la Plata by Juan dias de Solis, who first discovered it either in I512 or 1515, and supposed the adjacent country to abound with gold and silver, he having seen these metals plenty among the people. But in this notion he was de civet, this wealth coming from the banks of the Paraguay, which river after falling into the Plata, keeps it company for some time, without commix ing its firearms, as may be easily discerned i the Paraguay being quite muddy, the La Plata very clear. This river is seven leagues broad at Buenos Ayres, below which, it discharges itself into the,Atlan-
57--P~hRaGUAY1) Part of,nn~~~~~e aa i cp~aiS odes,* ZamueoiX ~akP,cl ~ ~ ~ ~ T j,~~~~1 O A C2 ,izanr Yaya~s - uy,.chi Ab ~ MPA - c,AJde OChRE AN y, 4 rart~ad P. 4*i~L~nuasnes iyu Buenos Ayres -o 311&s~ H E41R.A P A Mi P A S - ~CAyl4nr~nnm,delosP ~2?J'CVnn Ocean t~Zm a~,~tde:;F~ k~Grro '~,~~~s Ca1i'zsona
Atlantic ocean, in thirty-five degrees south latitude and at its mouth, it is by some writers affirmed to be fifty leagues from point to point; it annually overflows the country for many miles, and during the inundation, the people inhabiting, its banks put themselves, with all their substance, into ca noes, wherein they paddle about till the stream again retires to its proper course. It is so very ra pit, that Ovalle affirms it to freshen the sea for same leagues after it falls therein the water of the river Plata is very sweet; it clears the lungs, is good against rheims and delusions but is of a petrifying nature; of its sand, there are vessels of various figures naturally formed, by means of this refrigerating quality, which look as if they were artificially polished, and in them water will keep a long time very cool. The inhabitants cf la Plata have melodious voices, and are naturally inclined to music, which endowment the jesuits take care to cultivate for their own private pleasure, by teaching them to play on all sorts of musical instruments; and of these reverend fathers, among whom the valuable country of Paraguay is divided, having their train of musicians; many of whom manifest very great skill and tafle.,The country about this river is quite flat, with out any high lands to intercept the prospect, or any springs of water for many leagues: wherefore people who travel within land, carry vessels of water with them; and the oxen, which draw the wag gone used in these journeys, will smell water at a vail distance, and running thereto with fury not to be-restrained, drink up the very mud which they raise with their feet buenos Ayres, which is the chief town upon this river, lies about fifty leagues from the sea; it consists of two large streets crossing each other; and the houfci, each of which is no more thanes 4 one
one flory high, were all built of clay, till the je. suits taught the making of brick, lime, and tiles. Its principal exports are hides and tallow, with the fil ver of Peru, and the riches of Chili; all sorts of European goods are imported, and yield a good price. The harbour is a good one, but not sus ficiertly sheltered from the north west and west winds. Here is a cathedral and five other churches, with a handsome edifice, wherein the Spanish go vernon resides; though a few leagues up the country thejurifdidfion of thejefuits begins, who ma nage matters so politically, that they permit no in recourse between the Spaniards and the inhabitants of the numerous provinces over which they sway. And they are commonly mailers of such well timed liberality, that they effectually prevent the Spanifh governors from enquiring into the worth of their passions; merchants who enter this country, bt i known by the name of Paraguay, are not sus served to make any slay here, lest they should report to the astonished world, the luxury and riches of these reverend fathers who first got footing here, under pretence of reducing the Indians, over whom they reign with the mots despotic power, to the Spanish government. As the jesuits are compo fed of people of different nations, consequently have no natural affection to Spain, and are en timely attached to the aggrandizement of the so city, their jurisdiction over this race is more ea. fly maintained. They have ten colleges, some whereof are five hundred leagues asunder, and the number of brethren in them all does not exceed one hundred and sixty. The fathers have divided Pa. raguay into twenty-fix cantons or towns, each un der the care of one or two missionaries at most, and containing perhaps six or eight thousand souls. These cantons are divided into streets of clay, huts without either chimneys or windows; so that the,hioke
smoke. is enough to suffocate a person who has nos been always used to it. Their chief furniture is a pumping to hold water, and a tyger or ox (kin for a bed, with a hard stone by way of bolster; the better sort lie in a net fastened by way of ham mock across the house. The door is a thick hide; they roast their meat upon a wooden spit before the fire, cutting it off in slices as it turns, and often. eating it before it is warmed through the whole family, father, mother, children,. dogs, cats, &c; all lie in the same room in com mon, for their huts have no partition; and the fa tiers are careful to match their girls at fourteen,. and the boys at sixteen years old, otherwise they would chute for themselves, and come together, as they often do even under there restrictions, without ceremony. Here is never any dispute about dowry; the principal thing considered is mutual liking: the woman is the courtier; she opens her mind to the father of the canton, laing perhaps for some time. before wooed the man to whom she inclines, who. is immediately sent for; and if he answers in the affirmative, when asked, if he will take that maiden to wife, the match is straight concluded: the man promises to furnish the hearth with fuel, and the woman to supply the house with water. The ceremony being over, the missioner gives them a: cabbin, five yards of stuff to each for a wedding garment, together with a fat cow, a little salt, and Some bread, wherewith perhaps they entertain their parents; but they are allowed no music, nor dancing nor any merriment that tends in the least to rot or extravagance their complexion is a deep olive colour: the men have round flat faces, thick legs, large joints, and Prong black hair. The hair of the women, whore faces are wrinkled, hangs loose over their foreheads, and Last of it they twill down to their hips; theirs 5 arms,
arms, shoulders, and breasts creaked; and round their neck, hands and arms they hang chains of fish bones or of mother of pearl, a triple crown of straw distinguishes the wife of one of their petty princes, and their caciques throw a doe-skin over their shoulders, and wrap another piece of Skin round their middle, which hangs below their knees; round their necks they wear collars of coloured feathers, and slick fil-bones, or coloured feathers in their ears and chin, which parts are perforated for that purpose their children run about quite naked; they wrap them in a tyger's skin, and give them the breast as soon as born; but this is soon taken away, and meat half raw given them in lieu thereof to suck. At the death of a near relation the men chop a finger off the left-hand, and if a handsome daughter dies, her Skull is preserved as a drinking cup these people, says father Sepp, are so very flu pit, that if the instruction of them is only one day neglected, they will forget to make the sign of the cross; and there is scarcely any work which the missioner himself is not obliged to perform, or at reast to superintend ; even the salting is soup, and rubbing up the church-plate; so that he must be clerk, cook, physician, architect, gardener, smith, painter yet this character of stupidity cannot be easily reconciled to that of their being so happy at imitation, that they will make watches, or. guns, and pieces of mechanism, after having nicely inspected their flrueure, so very exactly, that to distinguish between them is scarcely possible; and one of them copied so exactly a printed mass-book, that asunder it could not be known which was which. The chief distemper among these people are the spotted fever, the bloody flux and worms; by all which,. great. numbers of. them are yearly,ffwept
swept away: the remedy prescribed against the lat ter of there is a vomit of tobacco leaves, and new milk with the juice of lemon, rue and'mint infused the rein they are To indolent that they must be beaten - to their labour; and they take castigation with great patience, giving the fathers thanks for the blows, and calling out Jesus, Maria; so that they are perse proselytes of passive obedience. They are extremely affected with the taste, elegance, and splendor wherewith the priests ornament their churches: and it would be wonderful were it other wife; for molt of them have beautiful paintings, images finely finished, chandeliers and chalices of massy plate, with a ring of bells and a couple of, organs, which the natives are taught to accompany with many musical instruments besides the voice; and with these proficient in that charming science, the fathers spend their hours of dissipation in the most lovely spots that can be imagined, in islands for beauty excelling the dominions of Ca lypfo; where nature's choicest sweets are ever springing, and where laurel, palm, lemon, arid citron eternally flourisb.,When father Sepp, a Germianjefuiit, from whose account of there people this. extract is taken, landed, wi!: rome morejefuits, at Japegu, a district of about a month's journey from Buenos Ayres, they were re civet bey a most delicious concert of music, and re fresher with variety of fruits and sweetmeats ; while on the water, which was covered with boats lined with fire arms, and trumpets, a mock-fight was ex habited, and the Indians diverted them with wrest ling, dancing, and other innocent seats of activity. The superior and procurator appeared at a distance, each at the head of a troop of Indian horse, and several companies of foot, armed with scimitar, flings, bows and arrows, &c. and clad after theft 6 Sparry
Spanifhlfafhion, which went through their military exercise with great regularity from the there side they were conducted and fol lowed by thousands of people shouting with joy, through a green triumphal arch, purposely erected, to the church, where were several Indian women, so intent at their devotion that they scarcely cast an eye on these reverend new-comers. When the service was ended, the chief of the Indians wel comet them with a brief, but emphatic speech; and was seconded by a woman, whose expression was elegant and her delivery easy. The following day was spent entirely in merriment, and in the evening they were entertained firs with a dance of boys handling pikes and lances; secondly, a dance of two fencing-mailers; thirdly, a saraband by six sailors; fourthly, a mock tournament by six boys on horseback: the place was illuminated with ox horns, filled with suet, and set in silver; for they have neither oil nor wax vines thrive extremely well in this soil; and did not the vast quantities of pismires that swarm here spoil the grapes, wine would be very plenty: it is for the moss part well tailed, but fours soon without it be well limed. It sells from twenty to thirty crowns a cask. The soil is extremely ser. tile; Turkey corn is the only grain they cultivate. and this, when reaped, is laid. up in barns by the ministers, and delivered out to the people as they need it, who having pounded it in a mortar, for they have no mills, either bake it on the coals, or boil it with their meat. The fathers have indeed a few acres of ground sown with wheat, but of this they are so careful, that for a loaf the natives will give two or three horses; not that these sons of humility and the church stand in need of the exchange, for they are absolute masters of every thing, even of the women and children, whom,they
they call, perhaps not unjustly, sons and daughters; and they allot to every family their portion of land, and quantities of cows and oxen, though these swarm about in herds that have no owners. From Buenos Ayres to Cordova, in the kingdom of Tu. human, there extends a plain two hundred miles long, wherein 'is seen neither tree nor cottage, the pasturage whereof is very fine, and covered with black cattle, over the horns of which any man may cast a halter, and make them his own that chuses to do so. They are often killed purely for the sake of their tongues, hides, and tallow, and their carcasses exposed a prey to tygers, eagles, &e. which often carry off the young, calves, even in the towns. A fat ox may be bought for two or three needles, or a two-penny knife; a horse for trifles of about two shillings value; and a crown's worth of fish hooks, needles, nails, and knives have been known to purchase a score of horseshoe woods are full of peaches, almonds, figs, and of almost every sort of fruit ; they also abound with deer, wild boars, goats-and such flocks of partridges and wild pidgeons, that they may be knocked down with a slick. They also produce honey, which besides its medicinal virtues, serves to mix up with sallad instead of oil and vinegar. In 1691, silver was cheaper here than iron; a two penny knife sold for a crown, and a bridle-bit for three horses, a two (hilling hat for twelve crowns, and a twelve shillings gun for thirty crowns: the (hips which carried over father Sepp and some other missionary, carried back to Spain thirty thousand ox-hides, the worst of them worth six crowns in Europe, which they had for only the trouble of catching and killing the beasts. Tygers often leap their fences, and do them mischief. If you will believe the milliners, there creatures have such a respect to the clergy, that they never hurts-them:
them: they generally strike an ox or cow in the first joint of the neck, then tear it to pieces; they bite the head off a calf, stealing upon it by de. green, and then suck its blood cocks, hens, pigs, goats, and sheep multiply here exceedingly, and mules are very much valued. The rivers abound with the most delicate fish, which the Indians, for want of fishing-hooks, they being very dear, catch with a crooked nail, and often with their hands. The missionary instruct their congregation of both sexes in writing and reading, at which they are very expert, as well as in other useful employments. The dress of the fathers is a black linen cassock, a cap like a bishop's, leather shoes without heels, and-stockings of sheep-skin coloured blacks H A P. V. Captain Rogers arrives off shetland of Juan Fernan-,dez, tbtJeory of Alexander Selkirk ; the oil, productions &s. of this island. F EARING that we have trespassed too long upton the patience of our readers in describing la Plata and the River of Amazons, we shall hasten after our concert ships now on their way to Juan Hernandez, which they made on the rift of January 1708-9 ; the following day captain Dover and the boat's crew manned the pinnace with a view of going ashore, from which design he was deter red, by perceiving a large fire kindled on the island, which he feared might belong to an enemy ; so that he returned on board after night-fall pretty heartily tired february the 2d, both ships flood in for the shore, from whence there came such frequent and,sudden
Tbe East~av Taw Lilt 3r up""eGatid 1~~~~~~~-Â· '' Â· .41t-3340", '4411
sudden gusts of wind, that they were forced to reef their topsails, and land by the masts lest they should go by the board. Seeing the coast was clear, and no sight of any ships in the ay, Cap tain Dover and Mr. Frye, with six armed men ventured to go ashore in the paul, which not re turning in hase, was followed by the pinnace, well manned; they both came back towards evening, and brought with them a man cloathed with goats-skin, who appeared wilder than the goats themselves: he seemed very much rejoiced at getting on board, but at first could not speak plainly; only dropping a few words of English by times, and without much connexion; however, in two or three days he began to talk, when he observed that his silence was involuntary, for. that having been four years and as many months upon the island, without any human creature with whom to converse, he had forgotten the use of his tongue; and having been so long inured to water, and such insipid food as he could pick up, it was some time before he could reconcile himself to the flip's victuals, or to the taking of a dram this man was a native of Largo, in the county of Fife in Scotland; his name was Alex under Selkirk; and captain Dampier, to whom he was well known, giving him the character of a good seaman, he was appointed a mate on board the Duke. He belonged to a flip called the Cinque Ports, commanded by one Stradling, who upon some difference, set him ashore here, where he had been before to wood and water, leaving him a firelock, with a pound of powder, ball a knife, a hatchet, a kettle, rome mathematical instruments, a bible, and two or three other use ful books, with a small quantity of tobacco, bed bedding, &c. At first the terror and loneliness of the place sunk deeply on his spirits, but in time,he a
be became inured to it, and got the better of his melancholy. He had ereAed two huts, one of which served him for a kitchen, the other for a din. king room and bed-chamber; they were made of pimiento-wood, which supplied him also with fire and candle, burning very clear, and yielding a most refreshing fragrant smell; the roof was of long grass or rushes, and his wainscotting the Skins of goats, near five hundred whereof he had killed during his residence here, and caught above five hundred more, which he marked on the ears and then let at liberty when his ammunition was exhausted he catched them by running, and so practised was he in that exercise, that the swiftest goat upon the island was scarcely a match for him ; and captain Rogers in. forms us, that during the flay of his people upon this island, Mr. Selkirk went often out with the dogs to hunt goats, whom he always distanced, and frequently tired quite out. On his being firs abandoned here, he relished his food, which was boiled goat's flesh and craw-fish, but indifferently, for want of salt; however, in time he got the bet ter of his nicety of palate, and was well enough pleased with the seasoning of the pimiento-fruit, which is not unlike the black pepper of Jamaica. IVhen his cloaths were worn out, he made for him self a covering of goat-skin, joined together with thongs, which he had cut with his knife, and which he run through holes made with a nail instead of a needle; he had a piece of linnen by him, of which 'he made a sort of shirt to put next his skin, and this was sown in the same manner. He had no shoes left in a month's time, his feet having been so long bare, were now become quite cal tous; and he was some time on board before he could wear a shoe, his feet swelling considerably under the refrain. The rats at first plagued,bhi
him very much, growing so bold as :to gnaw his. feet and cloaths while he slept; however, he soon taught them to keep a greater distance, with the affiance of some cats that had been left ashore hy the ships; of these and a few kids he made pets, and used to divert himself by dancing the hey among them, and teaching them a thousand tricks. Mr. Selkirk on his coming to England, supplied Da noel Defoe, who was pilloried, with his memoirs, in order to digest them for publication; but that honest writer stole the materials, which he gave to the public, under the name of Robinson Crusoe, and returned to Mr. Selkirk his papers, from the profits whereof he was for the most part cut off by this piece of knavery. The climate of the island of Juan Hernandez is so good that the trees continue green all the year round. The winter lasts no longer than June and July, and is not then revere, there being only a slight frost and' a little hail, but sometimes great rains. The heat of the summer is equally moderate; neither is there much thunder, or ten peftuous weather of any sort. Mr. Selkirk, to whom the flip's crew gave the name of governor, saw no venomous creature on the island, nor any sorts of beasts, but goats, which had been fit put ashore on purpose for breed by Juan Fernando, a Spaniard, who fettled there with Come families for a time; but the continent of Chili having submitted to the Spaniards, and being a more profitable soil, the planters were tempted to quit this island, although it is capable of maintain ing a good number of people, and of being made very strong the bay is all deep water, and ships may be brought up close to the rocks, if occasion require. The Mind blows always over the land, and at worst,along
along shore which makes little or no sea. It is for the most part calm at night, only now and then some land gusts. Near the rocks there are very good fib of several sorts, particularly large craw-fish, easy to be caught; also cavalier, gropers, and other good fill, in as much plenty almost as in Newfoundland at the best fifhing-feafon.,Piemento is the onoft useful and finest timber on the island, but very apt to split till a little dried; the longest and cleaned is chosen for firing cabbage trees bearing excellent heads, are found about three miles up the woods, on the tops of the nearest and towel mountains. Here are found store of turnips, which in the warm season are very good, and water-cresses grow in the brooks, which are very serviceable in all scorbutic cafes the soil is a black loose earth, the rocks very rotten, so that without great care it is dangerous climbing for cabbages; besides there are abundance of holes dug in several places by a sort of fowls like puffins, which holes suddenly give way, and endanger a man's bones. Mr. Selkirk says, that in July he has seen snow and ice here, but the spring which is in September, October, and November, is very pleasant, there being then abundance of parsley, purloin, &c. and an herb springing up near the water-side, very useful in fomentations, not much unlike feverfew; the smell of it is rather stronger and more grateful than that of balm, and being gathered in bundles, dry'd in a Shade, and strewed in the tents, it tended much to the speedy recovery of the sick men, of whom there died but two be. longing to the Duchesses November the seals come ashore here to whelp and engender, when the shore is so full of them for a tone's throw, that it is impossible to pass through them, and they are so surly that they will not move out of the way, but like an angry dog run at a man,,tho
tho' he have a good slick to beat them; so that it is dangerous to come near them: however, at other times they will make way for a man; and if they did not it would he often impossible to get up from the water-side, for they line the shore, commonly covering above half a mile of ground all round the bay, keeping a continual noise day and night, some bleating like lambs, some howling like dogs or wolves, that they may be heard above a mile from the shore. Their fur is very fine, far beyond any yielded by the otter another strange creature here is the sea-lion: some of there, according to Selkirk, are twenty foot long, weighing not less than two hundred ton. They are striped like the sea dogs, but have a different kind of (kin, a head much larger in proportion, pro vicious wide mouths, monstrous flaring eyes, a face resembling that of a lion, and huge whiskers, the hair of which is stiff enough to make tooth-picks. There creatures come ashore to engender about the latter end of June, and slay till the end of Septem ber; during all which time they are never observed to go into the water, but lie in the same spot for months together, at about a musket shot distance from the water side, and take no manner of sullen. ance; it is surprising what a quantity of oil these creatures yield. Their hair is short and coarse, and their skin thicker than the thickest ox-hide I ever saw.,The only land birds to be seen here are a sort of black-bird with a red breast, not unlike the English black-bird; and the humming-bird, which is curiously variegated, and no bigger than a large humble bee here is a small but uncertain tide i the spring-tide flows about seven foot.,CHAP.
C H A P. VI. hey set failfrom the island ss Juan Hernandez, and take twu rises ; t;eyhfind citer to Lobos de la Mar; songe account of thes islands. Mrs. Vanbrugh occa. sins new disturbance. Adore prizes taken; a de. scent upon Guiaquil concerted ; she town of Pasta .surprized. They are discovered in their dAfgns upon Guiaquil. february the i3th a committee of the principal officers of both ships was held on board the Duchess, wherein it was agreed to sail for the sand of Lobos de la Mar; and which ever vessel arrived there first, was to leave directions for her consort how to proceed, buried in a glass bottle at the depth of twenty yards, at certain spots which they named, The next day they weighed anchor with a fair gale at S. S. E. and Mr. Hamburgh was the day after re. civet again, in his old birth on board the Duke; on the 4th of March every man was put to an allow. ance of three pints of water per day, that their flock might hold out, they being resolved to keep out to sea, in hope of taking some good prizes from Lima or elsewhere, according to which expectation, on the i6!h of March they spied a sail, and the Duchess being nearest took her.,She was a vessel of about I6 ton, belonging to Payta, and bound to Cheripe, with a small umn of money on board to purchase flour. The smaller's name was Antonio Heliagos, a Multee, begotten between an Indian and a Spaniard; his crew con filed or eight men, one of them a Spaniard, one negro, and the rest Indians: from there they learn ed that there had been no French ships in these season
for upwards of six months; and that the French were so hated at Lima, that it was as much as a Frenchman's life was-worth to be seen in the' freets.,After they had manned the prize with English sailors, they haled off close on a wind for Lobos, having shot within it, and. had they not been better informed by the crew of the prize, might have en angered their ships. by running in' farther, because there are shoals between the sand and the main the prisoners told them there had been no ene my in those parts since captain Dampier, which was four years ago. They likewise informed them, that captain Stradling's flip, the Cinque Ports, who was Dampier's consort, foundered on the coast of Bar bacon;, where he-with scarce more than six or seven of his men were saved, and being taken in their boat had been kept ever since prisoners at Lima, where they li'cd much worse than poor Selkirk, whom they had left ashore on the desolate inland of Juan Hernandez, had done march I7th they came to anchor betwixt the two islands of Lobos de la Mar, together with their prize, which on the following day they prepared fit out as a cruiser, under the command of Mr. Stratton, calling her the Beginning; on the 20th having manned her with thirty-two men and flocked her with provisions The put to sea, and on the 26th the Duchess brought in a prize which they had taken in company; her burthen was fifty tons, with a cargo of timber, rome cocoa nuts, and tobacco, whLih latter was distributed among the crews of the Duke and Duchess. On the goth having cleaned and refitted the last prize they gave her the name of the Increase, and then removed the sick of both ships on board her, under the care of a door, and Mir Selkirk, as matier.,The two largest sands, called Lobos de la Mar, (to distinguish them from those called Lobos de la,Terra)
Terra) are about sixteen leagues from the main, and six miles in length. There is another small island close by the easternmost to windward, not half a mile long, with some rocks and breakers near the shore. The soil is a hungry white clay mixed with sand and rocks; there is no fresh water, nor yet is there any verdure on the islands, but vast numbers of vul. turns or carrion crows, which look so like turkeys that one of the lip's officers blessed himself at the first sight of them, hoping to fare deliciously; nay so very eager was he to take them, that-he would not slay till the boat could put him ashore, but leaped into the water with his gun in his hand, and getting near enough to a parcel let fly at them, but when he came to take up his game, it slunk so into tolerably that he was laughed at by all his messmates besides these birds here are penguins, pelicans, boobies, gulls, and a sort of fowls like teal, that nestle in holes on the land; the men got loads of them, which when skinned, they affirmed toe very good meat. They found abundance of bull-rules and empty jars that the Spanish fishermen had left on shore; for all over this coast they use jars, instead of casks, for oil, wine and ant sorts of liquids here is abundance of seals, and some sea-lions; the seals are much larger than at Juan Hernandez, but the fur not so fine: they killed several with a design to eat their livers; but one of the crew, a Spaniard, dying suddenly after eating them, this sort of food was forbid. The prisoners accounted old seals very unwholesome the wind always blowing fresh over the land brought an ugly loathsome smell aboard from the seals ashore, which gave captain Rogers a violent head-each, and every body else complained of it.,They had found nothing so offensive at Juan Ser nandez.,Their
Their prisoners told then that it was expected the widow of the late viceroy of Peru would shortly em bark for Acapulco, with her family and riches, and flop at Payta to refresh, or sail near in sight, as customary, in one of the king's ships of thirty-fix guns and that about eight months before a flip with two hundred thousand pieces of leighton board, besides a cargo of liquors and flour, had passed by Payta for Acapulco. They added, that they left one Mr. Morel, in a flout fhipladen with dry goods, bound for Lima, recruiting at Payta,.where was ex passed in a few days, a French built ship, belonging to the Spaniards, to come from Panama richly laden, with a bishop aboard. Payta is a common recruit king-place to those who go to or from Lima, or most ports to windward, in their trade to Panama, or any part of the coat of Mexico. Upon this advice they agreed to spend as much time as possible cruising off of Payta, without discovering themselves for fear of hindering their other designs april the if the sea was entirely the colour of blood, which appeared upon inflexion to be caused by the spawn of fifi. On the 2d, lieutenant Frye was dispatched in the pinnace after a prize which came then in sight; he soon brought her in, the proved the Flip before spoken of, commanded by Mr. Morel and his brother; her burthen was five hundred tons, and besides her cargo, the had on board fifty negroes, and many passengers bound from Panama to Lima, with a fine flock of fresh provision; the command of this velel was given to Mr. Frye: and the day following the Beginning took a prize of thirty-five tons burthen, bound from Gui aquila to Chance; by which veiled they were ad vised that the bishop, of whom mention has been lately made, was still at Payta, and would soon pass the road wherein they now lay in his way to Lima. In consequence of which information the cruisers ere
were disposed in such Rations as seemed to bid fairer for shortening his lordfhip's-voyage.,On the 7th of April Mr. Vanbrugh continuing still to behave in a very riotous and an unbecoming manner, was in full council of the officers of both (hips turned out of his post, being voted mutinous, and not fit to be entrusted ; and on the 12th an at. tack upon Guiaquil was unanimously agreed upon; the best regulations possible being made to satisfy the men with respect to plunder, and to hinder them from mutinying.,April the i5th the French-built prize, which they had so long expected, appeared in sight, and being attacked by the boat and the pinnace, repulsed them having killed two men, one of whom was captain Rogers's brother; he was shot thro' the head, how. ever she struck soon after to the Duchess. She had five hundred Spaniards, and an hundred mulattoes, negroes, and Indians on board, but they had set the bishop ashore together with his treasure and attend ants, about ten days before at-point St. Helena.,On the 17th all the men intended for the descent upon Guiaquil, to the amount of two hundred and one, were put on board the barks, each having a ticket delivered to him, setting forth to what come any he belonged, and his particular flation;a measure which was thought absolutely necessary to prevent the men from straggling ; it had been before agreed upon that the command of this affair should be by turns divided between captain Dover, captain Rogers, and captain Courtney; captain Poverty have the lead at landing, by way of compliment, as he was part owner of the concert ships, and a man of good natural parts, much improved by experience, As there were three hundred prisoners in custody irons were put on board the Duke and the other vessels, in order to intimidate-them, the men lefttc guard them being not much more than one third o,3 ths 3
that number. Captain Fry and captain Cooke, to whom the care of the Duke and Duchess were com mitted, were directed to keep out at sea for forty cjiht hours, to prevent their being discovered by the enemy ; and afterwards to wait the event of the expedition at Punta Arena, off which place captain Rogers and hi; barks, together with cap tain Courtney, came to anchor about ten at night; where taking to their boats with forty men, they made for Puna, an island covered with swamps and over-run with mangroves.,On the evening of the igth, they approached - nearer the town of Puna, where they expected there was a look-out for them, disposing themselves to avoid being discovered, in such a manner, that they had the appearance of drift timber upon the water. With the break of day of the 20th, they got up close with the town, securing all the canoes; but notwithstanding the alarm was spread, by an Indian who escaped them, they secured the lieutenant governor of the town, and with him about twenty people, by whom they were assured that the inhabitants of Guiaquil could have no intima tion of their being so near; those who had fled from Puna having taken refuge in the woods. In this town, they found, a paper sent from Lima, co pies of which it seems were'difperfed all along the coast, giving notice of captain Dampier being in those leaf; however, they were pretty well satis sied that they should be able to execute all they de signed, before any forces from Lima should reach this quarter, sufficient to oppose them captain Rogers left captain Courtney and cap tain Dampier at Puna about two in the afternoon us tee 20th, and went in quest of the barks; ad firing they did not come in sight, they being now a tide and half behind. He carried with him the,VOL. VII. K
of Puna, and went with th great launch and'pinnace, designing to join capt Courtney and captain Dampier again, who were( lie all night in the river, to prevent being disc(, vexed by any advice going up before them to Quia. quit. He found the barks about four o'clock:, foul leagues below Puna. It seems they had been mis led by the pilot of the Dutchess's bark, v ho was not so well acquainted with the road, a, they thought, or he pretended to be, the molt skilful pi. lot being in captain Rogers's boat, nor were the rest of the pilots so very careful as could have been wished at so critical a juncture as this was; however, captain Rogers had ordered one of them who got drunk at Puna, to be severely whipped in fights all the men; which necessary example had the de sired effete upon the rest captain Rogers was not aboard above half an hour before low water, and had just time to embark captain Dover and part of his company in the launch, and as many more as they could carry in their pinnace to get before the-barks up the river. They rowed till twelve at night, when judging it high water, they came to a grappling It blew fresh, was very dark, with a snail rolling sea; and the boat being crammed with men, captain Rogers declared he had rather have been in a storm at sea, than here; but in regard to the undertaking, he thought no fatigue too hardest day break they saw a bark above them in the river. They thought it to 'be a stranger, and sent out their pinnace to her. By eight o'clock, they were on board her, and found it to be their own bark ; which the honest pilot had brought so high the las tide. They had no sight of the Duchess's bark, since they had,left
left her the night before. About ten, they came up to captain Courtney and captain Dampier, who told them they had kept a good look-out, and that nothing had passed them up the liver. About noon it was high water. They lay with the boats under the mangroves all the ebb, and the bark off in the river. They were now about half way up toGui- aquila from Puna, and might have gone farther, but that there was a plantation or farm near at hand which would have discovered them, and alarmed the town, should they have gone higher before night april the 2d it was very hot, and they were pestered and flung grievously by the mulattoes, as they lay under the mangroves. At six in the even ing, the barks and boats made way up the river. By twelve at night they were in sight of the town with all their boats, in which were one hundred and ten men. They now saw a very great fire on the top of an adjoining hill, and lights in the town. In half an hour, they were a-breast of it, and ready to land, but delayed a while, as the lights appeared to encrease not only on the hill, but in and about the town. They enquired of their Indian pilots, whether it was any saint's day, or what might be the occasion of it? and were an swerved that it must be an alarm. It was frill very dark, and whilst they lay driving on the ri ver, it being just high water, they heard a Spaniard on the shore talking loudly that Puna was tAken, and that the enemy were coming up the ri er. This made them conclude it was an alarm. Immediately after, they heard bells, together with the noise of voices, and then a folly of small arms and two great guns. Above an hour was spent in debate between captain Dover, captain Courtney, and captain Rogers, whether they should land. The lieutenants in all the boats were con-,K z suited,
suited, but they differed in opinion, and few were for landing in the nigh tit drew near two in the morning, arid the ebb run so strong, that the great boat and all could not row up to land; so that it being too late to attempt the town, captain Rogers advised them to fall down the river (ut of sight, to meet their barks, and land with the morning flood. Upon this, all the boats drove down with the ebb, about a league below the town, where they lay till day. break, and saw their bark, Mr Glendale common. der, brought by the honest Indian pilot a mile above them; they having passed him in the night, They rowed back to him and recruited their men as well as they could. There they found the water fresh, and drank of it. The bark lay against wood of tall trees close by the flore, and they kept a file of musketeers with their arms point ing into the wood, with orders to fire if they saw any men; who accordingly kept firing a musket now and then, to prevent ambuscades. About three, their vail and-launch came aboard, for they could .not row back with them to the bark till the tide slackened. At ten, they saw the leeches's bark come in sight. Captain Rogers immediately ordered the anchor to be got up to fall on the town, which was about two miles from them; but captain Dover opposed it, prefixing tha; they might have a constitution with as many of the officers as were prefect, and to lie in the boat astern of the bark; that what was debated might not be overheard by the rest of the company. They were accordingly immediately assembled, and cap tain Dover insisted on the (difficulty of attempting the enemy, now they had been so long alarmed, alleging they should but throw away their own and their men's lives, or else weaken themselves f .such, that they should be unable to perpetrated)
any thing of consequence during the remainder of the vovyae; that the town appeared large-and consequently was better able to reest, than they were to maintain, the attack ; and though the Spa niards in these parts had no extraordinary fighting character, yet if they armed the mulattoes, as they generally did on the like occasions, the attempt might be found very desperate. He concluded that their best method would be to send a trumpeter, with proposals to the enemy t, trade with them for the cargoes of negroes and other goods aboard their prize,; that an immediate meeting should be ap printed, the prices for the negroes and goods fixed. and hostages given them for the performance within a limited time; and observed, if they agreed to there measures, there was no need of landing this proposal captain Rogers opposed with the best arguments he could think of, urging the ne celity of an immediate descent, iefl the enemy, gaining time by their delays, might send off their wealth, and strengthen themselves, so as to bid de fiance to all attempts. The majority tiding with captain Rogers, the descent was at 'once agreed upon, and by way of compliment to captain Do ver, who was a part owner in the ships, he was ap pointed to lead the attack, agreeing in case he took the town, to give the watch-word that night; as captain Courtney and captain Rogers were to re lieve him by turns. But this resolution did not hold, for captain Dover reflected on captain Ro gers, telling that he should be answerable for all the damage the owners might sustain from this ill concerted expedition. By these reflections, and fame other people's indifferency, which manifested heart-burnings and partial divisions among the men, captain Rogers had reason to doubt of his success; wherefore he thought it best to give in to captain Dover's measures, and to send proposals to the,K 3 enemy
enemy by two of their prisoners, for whose return within an hour, the remaining prisoners should become bound ; and this proceeding was thought better than sending two trumpeters, nor was there one man who seemed displeased at it.,CHAP. VII. various prsr:c'dings at Guiaquil: that city at Lazgtl,'anf,'red and :vaulted. IN consequence of the measures taken notice of,in the preceding chapter, the captain of the French-built prize, and the lieutenant-governor of Puna, were sent on shore in a boat, with a proper commission and a tric' charge to return within the hour. In the mean while, the bark ran up and lay at anchor opposite to the middle of the town.,As they sailed up, they saw four barks put off from the town, to go higher up the river, in pur suit of which they dispatched their boats well manned and armed, to which the enemy soon fur rendered and were brought off. Mean while the two prisoners returned from the town, with a Spa riifn officer, who said, that at his return, the cor regidore or governor, with another gentleman, would come off and treat wherefore he was soon put ashore, and immen lately after came ors the corregidor, with another gentleman, whom captain Dover and captain Ro gers met in their boat with a linguist, and carried aboard one of the barks Lat had been taken endeavouring to escape up the river april the 22d, nothing was done, but securing t!e barks and treating with the governor. Several of the prisoners affirmed that they did not doubt to find credit here, and that they would allo,traffic
traffic; so that there were now hopes of more profit by selling their cargoes and negroes, than by ransacking the town. The corregidor agreed for the goods at one hundred and forty pieces of eight per bale, one with another, and talked of the pice for other things about five in the afternoon he desired to go ashore, that he might prevail with the other gen tlnmen to agree with him, and promised to return. to confer with the three commanders on board one of their prizes, at eight in the evening. They ordered their linguist to get candles lighted, and the best entertainment they could provide; but the time being elapsed, and he not appearing it gave them great reason to suspect they were tricked therefore they sent their boats again above the town, and alarmed them afresh in the night. Their sentinels bailed a boat after midnight which came on board them with one gentleman, who said he was sent by the corregidor with a present of two bags of flour, two sheep, and two hogs ready killed, two jars of wine, and two of bran dy; and to assure them, the governor would have been with them, according to the appointment, had not one of the chief merchants concerned been. absent; but he would come off in the morning by seven o'clock, and requested them to believe he was a man of honour; for though he had been considerably reinforced since he leftthem, and more mien were continually coming into the town, he removed to discharge his promise of yesterday ; and therefore hoped they would forbear any hostilities above the town, because the women and children were there in sanctuary, with little or no wealth to prompt them to plunder the three commanders returned their compliments to the corregidor, and their kind thanks for his present, observing that they were sorry they,K 4 had
had nothing to oblige him with by way of return; but desired he might be told from them, that they 211 wondered at his not keeping his word, and fill depended that he would convince them he was a man of honour, by meeting them at seven o'clock the nest morning; otherwise the treaty was at an end they were all uneasy till seven in the morning, when they saw a flag of truce on board one of the new ships, where supposing the governor to be, they manned their pinnace, and sent their linguist to give their promise, that if the corregidor came on beard the prize, he should be at liberty to re turn. Upon this invitation, he came aboard with ;i.ree persons more, and they ordered their two frigate barks to go chose under the Shore, next the best part of the town, and that every thing should be kept in readiness-for landing, in case they should break off the agreement. The first proposals made by the three captains, were, that fifty thou sand pieces of eight should be paid by way of contribution for the town, and the two new ships that lay i:car the shore, together with the six barks: betides which, the governor was to oblige himself to buy off the cargoes of negroes, &c. belonging to the prizes, at certain stipulated prices to be paid within the term of nine days; to the latter, the Spaniards agreed, offering to leave two hostages with captain Dover, &c. till they had perform ed it, which were not thought sufficient; but they would not give near that sum demanded for the town and ships, alledging, that they had men and arms sufficient in the town and in the ships, to pro' tcÂ¢& them the captains concluding from their delay, that they cnlyv wanted to gain time, informed them ths they could seize the ships in a minute, or set then cn f e; that they did not fear taking the town pleasure
pleasure; that they looked upon it as much their own as if it was in their possession, and that they must have the money, or good hostages; otherwise before night they would set not only the ships but Guiaquil in a blaze.,By noon, the corregidor and the other gentle men agreed with them to buy both cargoes, and. to give hostages for forty thousand pieces of eight for the town, the two new ships and the barks,; but neither of them were to sign this agreement till it was confirmed by the chief men of the town, ashore, which the corregidor was to procure in an. hour's time april the 23d, about one in the afternoon, the governor was put ashore in captain Rogers's pin name. Some of the men insisted on flopping hill, because not long before an Indian came in a canoe from the shore, to know whether the governor had. agreed, as his men were in readiness to begin the sight, in case he had not; waiting for nothing but his orders. This message was delivered in captain. Rogers's hearing, and occasioned disputes about keeping the corregidor prisoner. Those who were for it, urged, that if he went ashore, the enemy would certainly fight them ; and that, as he had broke his word the night before, he was' not row to be trussed ; but captain Rogers opposed the (detailing him, because he had given him his ho your to the contrary. At lait it was agreed he' should be sent afliore.,The three gentlemen however laid as hostages, lat the corregidor's request, never doubting but thea agreement would soon be ratified ,The time allotted for answer being pass, a me forger from the town came to inform them they could raise but thirty thousand pieces of eight, and did not mention a word of the trade; so they sent their linguist and one prisoner with this last message, that,K 5 isis,
in half an hour, three more good hostages for the forty thousand pieces of eight agreed on, were not font down, they would strike the flag of truce, land, give no quarter, and fire the town and hips. In the mean time they saw the Spaniards quit the two new ships, and they took possession of them. Their messenger returned, and in half an hour, three men more from the town came to the bank opposite the captain's barks, holding out a white handkerchief, as if to parley again. Their re. solution, they said, was to give thirty-two thousand pieces of eight, and'no more: to which proposal the E:vgiih replied, they had done treating, and hid the Spaniards a shore retire forthwith, and keep out of theIr fnht, as they valued their lives hey ail at once struck their white flag, and let their martial colours. Captain Rogers then or tered two guns, of about six hundred weight each, mounted on carriages, into the great launch, and filled th-ir three boats with men in order to land he afterwards went himself in one pinnace, captain Courtney in another, and captain Dover in the launch, the three boats carrying about seventy men, They towed the launch ashore : the third lieutenant tarried a-b,'ard the bark with ten men, to play their guns into the town as they landed; A here the Spaniards made a formidable show when compared to their little arniy.,As soon as they landed ever, man fired on his knee t the brink of the bank, then loading advanced and called to their bark to forbear firing i;r fear of huit inr their own men: riotwvithftandii;gr they iTi!! Sept loading and firing, the enemy made butt one discharge an] retired beck to their guns, where their :ogre drew up a second time: the English at last came sip to their firs houses, and as they opened the streets law four guns pointed at them before a spacious church; but as loon as ever they came in sight, the,horle
horse moved off with precipitation. This encouraged captain Rogers to call to his men to run and seize the guns, he himself advancing with about ten men within pistol shot of them; which boldness fq intimidated the enemy that, after one general discharge they took to their heels and left their pieces to fall into the hands of captain Rogers and his fol lowers, some of whom possessed themselves of the church, where they took about a dozen prisoners. Many more of the English coming up with captain Courtney and captain Dover, captain Rogers re trained to secure that pols with a few men, while the rest marched to the other end of the sown. From the time they landed to the time they seized the guns and took poflsclson of the church, which lay above a furlong from the water-side, was not more than half an hour. Captain Dampier was now poked, with twenty-five men, at the guns,, which were turned on the enemy, who quickly eva coated the town. By this time the remaining part. of the English were landed, and marched after cap: tain Courtney and captain Dover. All the men in general behaved with great courage; but, like: sailors, would be kept under but little command as soon as the first piece was fired; however, after the attack, they kept handsomely together, and forbore hard drinking captain Rogers overtook captain Dover and cap tain Courtney at the other end of the town, where. he ict captain Courtney to keep guard at a church,. and then Rogers returned to his first pelt, whilst Dampier with his men went to reinforce Dover and Courtney.,Thus they were in quiet possession of the .town by sun-set, and made a proper disposition of their, guards, having met no opposition after the enemy ,tufted the great church. In the evening Rogers 6 went-went
on board the bark, fettled a good watch, and then returned a-shore to the church captain Dover now set the houses that fronted the church on fre, which burned all night and the next day. There was a hill near his quarter, and thick woods within a musket-shot of the church, where the enemy were almost continually popping at him during the whole night; and the next day some few parties made their appearance, but retired on receiving a volley of snail sÂ£ot.,The enemy might have done Dover great mischief in the night had they been courageous, since his friends were not near enough to slit him; for as the town was long, the whole could not be kept without dividing the men into parties at great distances; but his firing the houses covered the worse part of his quarters that night, and was of much service to him. Captain Courtney relieved him at day-break, and then both quitted these quarters, as being too much exposed to the enemv.,An Indian that was taken prisoner, told Rogers, that he knew of much money up the river in bark logs and houses; upon which twenty-one men were detached out of the English companies, and sent in a boat up the river. Rogers would fain have sent both pinnaces to seize that wealth, as they had found little or none in the town; but the others would by no means content to it, left the enemy might engage them the next morning in the absence of their boats and men. Roger desired that Courtney's boat might go because the largest, and the was accord in:-ly manned, out of both companies.,In the morning the English began with iron crows, and ther instruments, to break open the churches and a!; the 'fore-houses, cellars, &c. which taction was soon done to very little purpose, for,Ikarcely
scarcely any thing of value was left in the town but flour, pease, beans, and jars of wine and brandy. They began to carry these to the water-side, but having hot, wet, and unhealthful weather, and their men being fatigued, they became so weak that they could not work well at this new employment. They fain would have had the boarded for of the church taken up to look amongst the dead for treasure, but captain Rogers would not sussex it, because of a contagious distemper that had swept off a great number of people here not long before they found but two of the enemy killed in the town, and one prisoner, who was wounded in the head; but on farther enquiry were told that fifteen of them were killed and wounded, among whom was the chief gunner, an Irishman. On the side of the English, two men were wounded april the 24th the English kept their colours f king on the tower of the church, Dover keeping guard there all the day, whilst Rogers and Court ney took care to have every thing that they found useful carried to the water-side.,They then sent the lieutenant of Puna, and another prisoner, into the country, with proposals to ransom the town, a great part of the enemy being in the woods about a league from them. The print inert returned in the evening with an ambiguous answer, but desired they might be permitted to go a rain in the morning, in hopes to prevent the burn i ni of the town. About ten at night the boat that they had sent up the river returned, having been away about twenty I four hours. It had proceeded seven leagues, and sixteen of the men landed at six several places, the other five kept the boat, having a swivel gun to de fend themselves. At one place they separated, and four of the men rambled so far into the woods to look for wealth that, after three hours search, they couldn't
not find the way back to the rest; but by accident they met again and motto the boat. One of the mer was (hot through the hinder part of the neck by th( enemy, but the wound was not dangerous, and none of the ref were hurt. They chased thirty-five horsemen that were well armed, coming to affix the inhabitants of Cuiaquil. They reported the houses uD the river to be full of women, particularly at o:!e place, where there were above a dozen hand. some, well-dressed young women, from whom they took several gold chains and ear-rings, but were otherwise so civil to them that the ladies offered to dress victuals for them, and brought them a calk of good liquor. Some of their largest gold chains were concealed, and wound about their middies, legs and thighs; but the ladies in these hot countries being thinly clad with silk and fine linen, the men, by prefixing on the outside of their apparel, felt their chains, and by their linguist modestly de. sired them to take them offwith their own hands and surrender them. This is mentioned as a proof of the sailors modesty, and in respect to ivr. Convey and Mr. Selkirk, the late governor of Juan Fernan des, who commanded this party they called at this house for provisions as they returned down the river; and having been so civil at first, their fair landladies expressed no uneasiness or surprize at a second visit. They had taken a large empty bark in their progress, but abandoned her, and brought down with them, in gold chains, ear rings and plate, to the value of one thousand pounds, with a negroes that had been serviceable in discover ing part of the hidden treasure ; but they all agreed that the want of another boat lost them much more than they got; for whilst they searched on one side, the canoes and bark-logs crossed the river in their light, carrying many people with their fubftanceout,j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
of reach, which they could not prevent, not having another boat to pursue them they also informed captain Rogers, that in the places where they had been above the town, they had seen more than three hundred armed horse and foot in several parties, so that they apprehended the enemy's design w:xs to gain time by pretending to ransom, till they were capable of attacking them with vas odds. nut the English, for fear of being surprized, agreed to assemble in a body at every alarm, which v-as beat fever times a day on the sight of any large parties, though it in some mea sure retarded their buf;nefs.,Five jars of powder, some matches and shot, a Coot quantity of ordinary arms, three drums, and federal (words and lances were found in the church, where captain Rogers picked up the corregidor's gold-headed cane, and another with a silver head ; for among the Spaniards none carry a cane but the chief officers, and of those none under a captain mus wear one with a silver or gold headmaster captain Dover had quitted his poll in the morning, one of his men came to tell him that the enemy was coming down the hill. On this the alarm was given, and part of the men being left with the guns, captain Rogers marched with. the rest, and met captain Courtney with part of his company on the bridge retiring. He reported that the enemy was numerous and well armed in the north end of the town. Rogers however defied that they might join and march against them, to which Court ney consented, and their whole force, not exceed ing seventy men, they went forward ; but the Spa niards, not chusing to face them, retired into the woods as they advanced, from whence they some times assailed them with firing shots, which the English returned at random, none of them being hurt.,Courtney
Courtney and Rogers not agreeing with regard tc keeping possession of that end of the town, they marched back again, and took what they liked bed along with them, and carried it a-board their barks april the 25th, about one in the afternoon, the prisoners returned with an offer of thirty thousand pieces of eight as a ransom for the town, ships, and barks, to be paid in twelve days, which the cap. tain did not approve of, nor would they have staid for a much larger rum, being well apprized of the enemy's having dispatched an express to Lima to expedite the expected succours, unto the arrival-of which it was their design if possible to have delayed the contort ships. The next morning the three captains agreed upon sending this final answer, viz. that the town should be set on fire by three in the afternoon if sufficient hostages for the payment of thirty thousand pieces of eight, within six days, were not immediately delivered : in the mean time a cessation of arms should be granted, and the Spa niards be at liberty to come down to Puna to trade for negroes and the ref of their cargoes.,A Frenchman belonging to captain Rogers's com any, who had been sent with some others to strengthen captain Courtney's quarters, standing sentinel at night, slot one of the sailors dead. This ac cedent was occasioned by a severe order that had been given zt their quarters, to shoot every person 'in the ,.ilht who did not answer on being challenged which the deceased could not do, as being ignorant of French, in which language the sentinel had called out to him.,In the afternoon an officer and nine men were en. gaged :t the north end of the town with a party of Spaniards, whom they chased into the woods, but following them too far were attacked by others, and one of the Englishmen was shot through the calf of his leg i and another received a shot whilst he was,endea.
endeavouring to recharge his piece, upon the middle of the pole-ax that hung by his side, which made an impression on the iron, and bruised the part im mediately under it, but it proved a piece of armour well placed. The other man, who was wounded in the leg, by his irregularity and hard drinking, fell into a fever that carried him off. Captain Court ney's chief lieutenant, having his pistols hanging at his side, one of them unluckily discharged itself .gains the outside of the thickest part of his leg, and left a bullet in the fiefs, but without endanger in? lib lace. These accidents, and the increasing boldness of the enemy, influenced captain Courtney to draw off with his company to the quarters of captain Rogers.,At i::ht they all lay in the church, round which they i:ept sentinels within a musket shot of each other, with a charge to challenge each other every quarter of an hour, to prevent their being fur prized in the night; every man keeping his arms and ammunition in exact order, and being ready to life at the least alarm, for the enemy were con finally popping at them from the woods; the weather was very lot and faint, the streets were deep and slippery, and the way to the water-side very bad; all which circumstances contributed greatly to incommode them april the 26th, about two in the afternoon, the prisoners returned from the enemy's camp with two hlioemcn, who told them that their lait proposal was agreed to; and, that the lieutenant-governor of Puna, who had been very instrumental in the con ciBiirn of it, together with an old gentleman, on board one of the barks, were to remain as hostages for the performance of it; and these messengers added, that if there two gentlemen were not thought sufficient security, they themselves were also ready to remain prisoners ; which offer was refused, and,they
they were permitted to return to their camp, with their meiTe-2er, who was to bring back their agree, ment signed, which was worded as follows," Whereas the city of Guiaquil, lately in subject. " tion to Philip V. king of Spain, is now taken by ' storm, and in possession of the captains Thomas " Dover, Woodes Rogers, and Stephen Courtney, " commanding a body of her majesty of Great Bri. " tain's subject;: we, the underwritten persons, ' are content to become hostages for the said city, " and continue in the custody of the said captains " Thomas Dover, Woodes Rogers, and Stephen " Courtney, till thirty thousand pieces of eight " shall be paid to them for the ransom of the said '- city, two new ships and six barks; during which " time no hostilities shall be committed on either " side between this and Puna; the said sum to be " paid at Pure in six days. from the date hereof, " and then the hostages to be discharged, and all " the prisoners to be delivered immediately ; other. " wife the said hostages do agree to remain prison. ; hers, till the said sum is discharged, in any other " part of the world. In witness whereof we have " voluntarily set our hands this 27th day of April, " old stile, in the year of our Lord 170o.",The two hostages lay this night at the Enelil quarters, and next morning were put on board ship, while the Enliven crew off from the city with drums beating and colours flying, leaving the Spaniards at liberty to return to their houses. Captain Rogers, who brought up the rear with a few men, picked up many pistols, curtains and pole-axes, that the net dropped through laziness as they marched, wvicb' shewed that they were grown wca.y of a mlltar life, and that it was time to depart. Their harder task was to get the guns down to the water, ths earth being so soft that they who helped to carft,the:
them sunk half leg deep. To make it as easy as possible, a frame of bamboo canes was contrived, under which six men could stand and bear an equal weight on their shoulders. Though they w. re large four pounders, the gun and the frame did not ex need fifteen hundred weight; but had not the prisoners helped them they would not have been able to perform tIU'ir woik.,April tht 27;i, in the afterz,(,un, every thing was fettled on ibo:trd the bart s as wei, as they could ; the men vere separated on t- ard tht: prizes, where the English had put ricfl of 'heir goods and plunder, being about two hundred .nd thir( bags of flour, beans, peale and rice, sit e n jars of oil, about one hundred and sixty jars of ther liqueurs, some cord age, iron ware alii !ma!. liss, with about four half jars of powder, a ton of pitch and tar, a parcel of cloathing and necessaries, and about one thousand two hundred poun'l; in plate, ear-rings, &c. one hudrei and fifty bales cs d:y goods, tour guns, and about two hundred Spanifh ordinary useless arms and muP:et barrels, a few packs of indigo, cocoa, &-. with about one ton of loaf sugar. Abundance of goods were left in the town, besides liquors ,f molt fits and sea stones, with several warehouses full of cocoa, divers ships on !he frocks; and two new ships unrigged lying at anchor in tes bdv.,About two in the afternoon, a Dutchman that has been mise,' the day before, rose out of his braid-wine fit and came a-board. This was the only man, since the taking Guiacuil, who had lo much tranilgr flt by drinking,.,Abou ( it in the morning :he English set sail V.irh all their barks, and at parting nmaue what fho.v arid noise they could with drums, trumpets, and ui'n, and thus took leave of the Spaniards very Cheerfully, but not half so well pleased as if they had,taken
taken the town by surprize, for they were wel! assured from all hands, that at leash they should have then got above two hundred thousand pieces of eight; gold and silver plate wrought and un. wrought, besides jewels, and a much greater plenty c' necessaries, though the place had not been poorer for fort)' years, by reason that a sudden fire, ;bout eighteen months before, had destroyed the better half of the town.,C H A P. VIII. G?''aq:.i; defied: ths Ezgili/h sailors return t tiheir,si: ps :a, a scout of the men lft/ in this enterprize: - ,i y (d.iJ ihelr homages and fail.,'U I A QU I I,, the metropolis of the province, G.~ is about a mile and a half long, divided intothe old and new town, which are joined by a wooden bridge above half a mile in length, designed only for foot passengers. There are some houses at a distance on each side of the bridge, and thofcof both towns may amount to four or five hindred, besides five churches: the inhabitants are about two thousand in number. Their chief church is that f St. Jago, or St. James, the apostle, wherein are three altars, and before it is a handsome square; the others are thole of St. Augustine, St. Francis, St. Dominic, and St. Ignatius: the latter belongs to the Jesuits. Before that of St. Dominic there is a square with a hair moon, upon which they former ly planted guns, but more were mounted when til English took it. Three of these churches were very lofty, one of them stone, and well ornament ed with carved work, pictures, &c. In that of St, Augustine there was a good organ, but the priests had carried off all the plate belonging to them into the woods time enough to secure it.,Some
Some of the houses were very high, several of then, being brick, but mostly built of timber, and the meaner sort of bamboos. There is one regular direct along the side of the river to the bridge,, and from thence along the old town. The situation is in a low fw.Impy soil, so dirty in winter that without the bridge they could scarce go from one house to another. The town is governed by a core adore, who is their chief magistrate, and appointed by the king, It is well seated for trade and ship-building, Lying four leagues from Point Arena, and seven from luna. The river is large, being the recevoir of several others, and having many villages and farm houses on its banks, with abundance of mangroves and sarsaparilla, which impregnating its waters make them efficacious against the French pox; but in the time of floods it is unwelcome, because of the poisonous roots and plants wasted down from the mountains. They have plenty of provisions, black cattle, sheep, goats, swine. poultry, several sorts of ducks unknown in Europe, and store of horses. The water of the river is fresh at low water aloft as far as Puna.,An Englishman who had lived here some time, in formed the captain that, in the foregoing December, they had three weeks rejoicing for the birth of the princeof.Afturias, when they muttered one thousand one hundred foot and five hundred horse in arms, beside a much greater number that had none; but molt of those troops came from the adjacent country During this solemnity they had baited many buts to death after the manner of Spain, and run at the ring, :c. which are their chief diversions. The hostage: also informed them, that during the treat,, eighty thousand dollars of the king's money was sent out of the town, betides their plate, jewels, and other things of greatest value; but they were sobbed of a great deal by the blacks, whom they,had
had entrusted in their hurry. The English took several of them with stolen goods as they went their rounds by nigh:, and therefore they made signal to the inhabitants to return, as they marched off, that they might not sussex any more loss by those villains the French, by heir commerce in these seas. zi the Spaniards in general told them, damage their trade so much that their sea-ports are sensibly im. perishes, and this town was much richer six years ago than now.,A mile below the town captain Rogers took his leave of the barks, with the pinnace double manned, designing to get before them to the ships at Point Arena. The day came on very hot, and they saw many alligators in the river april the 28th they reached Puna, and met Mr, Duck and Mr. Hatley in the beginning; and an empty bark which they had taken, the Spaniards having run a-flore and left her at anchor off Point Arena. The people who had been left behind began to be concerned at the delay of their comp nions, who had sent them no news, and the scarcity of water had made them give the prisoners buta pint a day for tome time pat ; they had also bee forced to fink a small prize they had taken conning from Payta to prevent the prisoners running awi? with her, not having hands enough to spare tor manning hereby day-light captain Rogers got a-board, wher he found all the people overjoyed at his return again, after twelve days absence on an undertaking subject to so many fatal accidents, all which he hi happily surmounted. Cook and Frye had been, during that time, very uneasy. They had ufudili given the prisoners liberty by day, but kept the arms always ready, and the after-part of the ships;Â° themselves. At night they shut them up in the sores cash
castle, or between the decks; but aboard the prize, which was not so secure, they put them in irons every evening, and let them out in the morning, but never suffered any correspondence between the prisoners in.the several ships, by which means they neither knew their own strength nor the weakness of their masters, any further than in the respective flips.,Roger Booth, one of the Duchess's men, who had been shot through his windpipe, died the 20th infant: William Essex, a flout sailor, died the 24n., so that out of both ships four good men were lost in this expedition. Air. James Stratton, a quartermaster belonging to the Duchess, that was wounded by a niufket-ball in the thigh, was now out of dangers The wounded in those parts are more frequently attended with fevers, and other dangerous accidents, than in Europe. April the 25th captain Cooke dispatched the Havre de Grace's boat, well manned, in pursuit of a vessel that came in sight about three in the afternoon' which immediately surrendered upon being hailed, and proved to be a bark of about thirty tons burthen, with six men on board beside the master. She was laden with beans, pease, quinces, marmalade, sugar, plumbs, apples, onions, pomegranates, Guiaquil cheer, two hundred and seventy lacks of flour, two hundred sugar-loaves, and some dried beef. They had been out seven days from Planta, where they had left some flout French (hips, and where orders had lately been received from Lima, warning the magistracy to keep a good look-out, as an English squadron was soon expected in those seas, but. against what particular place they bent their designs was not yet discovered. From this intelligence it appeared that the arrival of the consort ships in there seas was not yet generally known.,From
From this time to the second of May they imp. twenty expected the stipulated ransom from Quia qu;:, but as yet to no purpose; so that they began now to think the corregidor meant to disappoint and delay them till succours should arrive from Lima: while the hostages repined at their fate, hardly hoping any other destination than that ot being carried captives to England: however they were in some measure relieved from these uneasy reflections about evening, by the arrival of a boat from the town with twenty-two thousand pieces of eight, in part payment of the ransom; which boat they immediately returned with a message to the corregidor, acquainting him that they intended to sail the following day; and, that if care was not taken to send the remainder of the money before their departure, they would carry the hostages away with them. In a short time after captain Courtney took charge of the Havre de Grace, and fell therewith down to the Punta Arena, whither captain Frog rs agreed to follow him the next morn ins, w aiming only to take on board some sheep, hogs, black cattle, with plantains, cocoa, water, fails, and fine other useful commodities which filles gained on shore. Before his departure he set the lieutenant governor of Puna a shore, having made him a present of four sick negroes and a damaged bail of goods: captain Rogers also behaved ex. extremely .eil to several other prisoners, particularly to a hearty old priest, whom he here set at liberty's mie 5th in the morning, captain Rogers went on b';; ::.e Havre de Grace, and, with the assistance of Mr. Morel and a skilful Indian pilot, brought her off from the edge of a shoal, where fne was threatened with some danger, but happily there 'as little or no wind abroad. Captain Courtney now began to manifest great uneasiness that the consort ships should delay so long here, affirming though,there
there was no foundation for the supposition, that they would fall a prey to the armament preparing certainly againftthem at Lima, and insisted there fore that they should immediately hoist sail and quit this station; in which proposition he was seconded bv the majority of officers, notwithstanding it was plain that they might reap great advantages from trading with the people of Guiaquil and Puna, who began now to be in some measure reconciled to them, as appeared on the morning of the 8th, when, with a boat that brought three thousand five hun died pieces of eight in plate towards the ransom, there came a gentleman who brought with him some goods on purpose to traffic, and assured them that Don Pedro de Sinfuegos, who had been their prisoner and was worth money, with many more of the inhabitants, were preparing to follow his ex ample. However, captain Courtney carried his point, and the majority of voices being for fleering towards the Gallapago Islands, they set sail the next morning, taking with them the hostages, the two Morels, the Indian pilots, and a young gentleman belonging to Panama; all the other prisoners were set ashore, and captain Rogers got again on board his own flip the Duke, as did Courtney on board the Duchess. On the t J th of May, on board the Duke, above twenty men feel tick of a malignant fever, and near fifty on board the Duchess, among whom was the Captain himself, and the number diseased on board both chips hourly encreased. This disorder had certainly been contracted at Guiaquil, where a few .weeks before the arrival of the concert ships, multitudes of people had been swept away by a conta lion, from the effets of which the air had yet been archly purged. May the 1 7th lind was discovered othe south fouth-wcff, bearing about ten leagues disant; anil oil the I8th they ap feared to be several Vel. \ II. L islands,
islands, whither, having first agreed on a particular rendezvous in case of separation, the boat was sent ashore to look for water, of which they had but a scanty allowance; however, (he returned from two different trips without success, report. ing the soil to be rotten and heavy, like cinders, giving way under the foot at every step, and so very parched, that it appeared as if it had never felt the refreshment of a shower or a spring; whence, though it was not destitute of some hfrubs and verdure, Rogers infers it to have been the seat of a volcanoes the gift the Duchess distributed a large quantity of turtle and other fish, which she had just caught, among the tick of both ships, which proved very serviceable, as most of their fresh pro visions were exhausted ; and what encreased their present calamitous condition, was, that, very unexpectedly medicines began to run short, although they had thought themselves sufficiently flocked therewith, and the sick dropped off fast, without the disorders seeming to abate; but in the course of it, we ought to observe, that those only were in scared who had been ashore at Guiaquil, the ref preserving themselves in good spirits, to which a plentiful distribution of punch, ordered by cap tain Rogers, who held up pretty well, contributed very much.,On the 22d, Mr. Hatley, with five men on board one of the prize barks, together with a galleon, another of the prize (hips, were missing; nor was there any sign of their returning, though lights were kept all night at the top-mast head of the Duke and Duchess, and guns incessantly fired; whereupon captain Rogers went in search of them with the Duke, the Havre de Grace, and the balk, and came up with the gallon in a few hours, near thereat
raff sand, but could gain no intelligence of poor Mr. Hatley, whom they gave up for loft.,On the 26th, it was agreed in a council of the officers to hand over for the main, in order to take in water, which none of these islands had been hitherto able to afford; and on the 6th of June, one of the sailors overheard a discourse between tome of the black and Indian prisoners, tending to lay a scheme for murdering all the English sailers, and running away with the flip; however, on being charged with it they denied the design, acknowledging indeed they had had some talk of that sort, wherein there was nothing seriously meant; and to prevent any fatal consequences, captain Rogers dispersed and divided them among the other ships, as the best way to break their cabals the same day, a flip of ninety tons burthen, struck to the Duchess, after a short chace ; the was called the St. Thomas de Villa Nova, and St. De mas, Juan Navarre Navarre commander, and bound from Panama to Guiaquil; there were about forty people on board, including Don Juan Cardiff, who was going to Baldivia, of which place he was go werner, and eleven negro slaves: the prisoners knew nothing of the concert ships being ill those seas, but were alarmed, as were also many of the inhabitants of the Spanish colonies, with a report that Lord Peterborough, with a formidable fleet under his command, would soon make a hostile appearance in this part of the worlds C H A P.
CHAP. IX. Bte hips anchor at the if and of Gorgonaaaaaa ; a deign projected of attacking the mines of Ba, bacore, bi laid aside ; they careen at the island of Gorgonaaaaaa; the Havre de Grace fitted up as a twenty gun lip ; leffi-s. Afsrel and the other prisoners jt at libGry ; thy traffic for prize goods; 'enormous serpents found upon the coal ; a large quantity of tiresias and papa! bolls found on board the prizes; an acecurn of a miracle; new regulations made in regard to pl.nd, r ; a designed mutiny on board the D.i'ke dJcozfered and prevented. JUNE the 7th, about four o'clock in the after-noon, they dropped anchor in thirty fathom water, about a cable's length from the shore, on the east side of the island of Gorgonaaaaaa: and the day following the boats of the Duke and Duchess seized a bark which was watering to the south ward; she was called the Golden Sun, burthen thirty-five tons, Andros Euriques Master, with ten Spaniards and Indians, a few negroes, and some gold duff, and a gold chain of about five hundred pounds value, wherewith they intended to hive purchased silt and brandy at Guiaquil, whither they were bound, from a creek within this island to which the vessel belonged. In the evening, a council of all the officers, captain Rogers excepted, he being indisposed, was held on board the Duchess, wherein, after the prisoners had been examined, it was resolved from their accounts of its situation and conveniences, to fleer for the find of Malaga, where, leaving the ships in a safe road, they were to ro, ' up the river in their boats, till they could,surprise
(surprise rome canoes, as better adapted to flem tho tides of the river, and in these they were to pro need to the golden mines of Barbacore, or St. Juan, where they might be certain of a considerable booty, as the Spaniards in that quarter had not the smallest intimation of an enemy's being To near. As captain Rogers had before agreed to consent to whatever they (hould resolve, about twelve of the same night they hoisted sail for Malaga; but Ro gers, upon receiving the report of their deliberations took upon him to discourse with Mr. Mo well, and some other prisoners, of whose know ledge he was well satisfied concerning the place of their destination; and from these he learned, that whoever had advised the council to such mea sures as they were now intent on pursuing, either meant to betray them to ruin, or else were very ignorant in thole affairs with which they pretended to be well acquainted; for the island of Malaga was not only barren and unfrequented, but the road extremely narrow and full of shoals, with a tide so very strong, that if the flip got over, which (he could only do at spring tides, she ran a chance of being forced from her birth and run ashore. Besides, they assured him that the banks of the river were well inhabited all the way up to St. Juan, by a race of people strongly attached to the Spaniards, who would take every measure they possibly could to annoy an enemy, which they might do with ease and safety, with their poisoned arrows, from the covert of the woods; moreover, the channel was so narrow, that by felling trees across it, they might effectually bar the retreat of the invaders, and cut them all off. This informa tion made a firing impression upon captain Rogers; he shuddered at the danger into which his coadjutors were inconsiderately running, and immediately sent for captain Courtney and captain Cook,,L 3 toto
whom the truth of his remonstrances appeared so very plain, that they immediately changed their course, and bore away for Gorgon, where they determined to careen, and to sit up the Havre de Grace as a twenty-gun flip, manned out of the Duke and Dutchess, to act as a third concert with them, under the command of captain Cook.,June the i3th, they came to anchor near the shore of the sand, in forty fathom water, and as. ter having held a committee, in which they filled up two vacancies caused by death; the Duchess was appointed to careen, and the Duke to lie on guard, for fear of being surprised by the enemy. As foci as the was turned out, the Duke was careened in turn; and in about fourteen days they were once again in prime order for sea, to the great surprise of the Spanifh prisoners, who declared, that careen ing one of the king's ships at Lima, where there were all kind of necessaries, and artificers ready to lend affiance, took up generally six weeks. June the 2:S, they Fut all their sick ashore, with two doctors to attend them, in tents built for that pur pole; here they recovered pretty fast, although the Spaniards had represented this as very unwholsome air. The following day, the Havre de Grace, now called the Marquis, was brought ashore and-id in the sand, in order that her bottom might be cleaned; and as her fas s were quite worn out, and her mars and yards rotten, there was a ne ce.Tty for ringing her quite a-new, the woods on the infant affording some trees that served pretty wei! f r mass, excepting that they were a little too,Cn the 2d of July they found some Maria-wood, the Charities of which are not very different from thole of oak : and this proved very serviceable. Their encampment was a fine picture of industry for necessity made every fallow apply to some trader
or other, as rope-making, fail-making, block-make ing, smiths and carpenter's work, &c. &c.,July the 3d, the prize flour, though much damaged by rats, was made up in thirty-fix casks; and the English bread that was left appeared to be eaten bv worms, as hollow as a honeycomb. When the Havre de Grace, otherwise the Marquis, was fitted up, she cut a good figure in the water, and the cap pains ordered liquor to be distributed among all the men that they might drink success to her, and their owners health. The next thing to be done was to fit out MAr. Selkirk's bark, to carry the prisoners overt the main, they being seventy-two in number, who, had they been dismissed before, might have alarmed the coafL,On the 9th, hi a committee held' on board the Duke, it was agreed that captain Dover, Mr. Ro bert Frye, and Mr. William Stratton should have the care of transporting them, with forty-five brave sailors under their command; which resolution was straightway put in practice. The two Morally, Don Antonio, and Don Juan Cardiff were now dismissed, and at their departure seemed well satisfied with the treatment they had met with; the latter was particularly ready to acknowledge this, as he had been very ill used by a Jamaica privateer, which he had sometime before fallen in with, in the North Sea, not far from Porto-bello: this gentleman, the reader may recollect, was bound, when taken, to Baldivia, of which he was governor; he was a lively genteel man, about thirty-five years old, and had been a colonel in the Spanish service. The Morals promised, provided the concert ships would wait for them, to return in a day or two, with as much money as they could raise towards purchasing such prize goods as remained on hands, which, most of them being only valuable in this quarter, tl!c captains declared they would otherwise, burns 4 together
together with the gallon in which they were con. gained, which was a mere burthen to them, and they had not more than sufficient room on board the three concert ships, for rich commodities as were much more necessary. On the I7th, in the morning, the two M/lorels 'and some other ge theme came off in a large canoe, and purchased some goods, at rates so very reasonable, that they intreated they might be permitted to come again with as much more money as they could raise; a request which was not in the least displeasing to the captains, as long as there was no apparent danger of an enemy that could hurt them.,On the isti, a negroes, who had been bitten by a fmi!al speckled snake, died in less th;:n twelve hours, notwithstanding the doctor exerted his ut minos fill to save him. The island of-gorgon abounds with there species of snakes, some of which are as thick as a man's leg, and three or four yards long; one of them was found and killed the same day upon the forecastle by the men: it had conveyed itself on board by the help of the cable. They are of an amphibious nature.,In rummaging the Marquis on the igth, there were found on board her five hundred reams of pope's bulls, which being a free gift from his ho lines to his catholic inajeliy, produce a considerable revenue in the Weft-Indies; being sold from three reals to fifty pieces of eight each, according to the circumstance of the purchaser, who is thereby ex cried from fasting on some particular days, from hearing mars, or from some other ecclesiastical injunctions, which to neglect would otherwise have been deemed mortal sins; the ransom of there had been of some value, if the bihfop had not escaped them, but now they threw Tome of them overboard, and used the remainder as fuel to the fires which they kept under their kettles.,On.
On the 20th a canoe came on board with some money to be disposed of in trade; together with some fowls, limes, and other refreshments, and this was succeeded by another canoe on the fol lowing day.,On the 22d, five of the flip's negroes hid them selves in the woods, with a view of deserting to the Spaniards when their mailers were departed; but one of them, being retaken the same day, was severely punished. Three more of them were caught on the 24th, being forced by hunger to quit their asylum, and were brought to their old births. On the 25th, the Duke spared thirty-five, and the Duchess twenty-fix hands, being sixty-one white men, besides twenty negroes, to man the Mar quis, captain Edward Cook commander, Mr. Charles Pope second captain; and it was agreed unanimously that her officers should be every way upon a footing with those of the Duke and Duchess, pay and flare, &c. all alike. The following night her crew were alarmed, by her having sprung a leak, which made eight inches water in an hour; but the carpenter soon found and flopped it. On the 27th the canoes returned with Mr. John Morsel, who said his brother would come on board the. following day, with as much money as he could possibly raise to traffic; and it now was plain, that they had held off so long, hoping the cruisers would have parted the goods for little or nothing, as they could not carry them to any other market, but finding themselves deceived, they were deter mined to make the befit bargain they could, being firmly persuaded they would never have another opportunity of purchasing goods at so easy a rate july the 27th, Mr. Morel, together with his bro ther, came on board again with what money he could get; he told the captains, that the country being much alarmed, he had much ado, to get leaves 5 r&
to come to them; that the governor of Barbados( was at the water-side, at the head of more thar two hundred men, as well to prevent then from being traded with, as to hinder their land. ing; and that all the shore was lined with men as. sembled for that end. The cruisers had taken out of the gallon three hundred and twenty bales of linen, woollen, silks, &c. besides boxes of knives, fcifc far, hatchets, &c. They found aboard her a great quantity of bones in small boxes, ticketed with the names of saints, some of which had been dead seven or eight hundred years ; with an infinite number of brass medals, crosses, beads, and crucifixes, religious toys in wax, images of saints made of all sorts of wood, tone, and other mate. rais, to the amount of thirty tons, with one hun. died and fifty boxes of books, in Spanish, Latin, &c. all which things had been brought from Italy, and were designed for the jesuits of Peru; but be ing of small value to the English sailors, they con. tented themselves with taking a sample of moi forts to show their friends in England, and left the reft.,A large wooden effigy of the Virgin Mary, be ing either dropped or thrown over board, and chancing to drive towards the north point of the sand, some Indians from the main land who were then fishing on the coast, took it up and brought it to the shore, july over against their flip, where setting it up with great seeming devotion, they wiped it dry with cotton, and when they came on board told the flip's crew, that though they had wiped it again and again, it continued to sweat very much, while such of there poor people as were not employed in wiping it, flood around devoutly amazed, praying and telling over their beads. They also shewed the cotton to the lin gulf, which was wet by the excessive sweat of then holy
holy Virgin, as they fondly seemed to believe, and kept it as a ch ice relit.,The Morals perceiving that captain Rogers laughed at this for, told him a much stranger, in order to convince him of the truth of this, which was, That a few years before, at a procession in the cathedral church of Lima, which was at that time very richly furnished, and worth some millions of pieces of eight in gold, silver, and jewels. The image of the Virgin was most sumptuously adorned with pearls, diamonds, &c. And those ornaments being left in the church, according to custom, till the night after the procession, with out any guard, the people concluding-that none durst be so sacrilegious as to dare attempt robbing the church. An unfortunate thief resolving to en rich himself by one bold action, broke into the church at midnight, and made up to the image; but whilst he was going to take off a rich firing of pearls from the Virgin's writs, she caught him fash by the arm, and held him, till being found in that posture, he was apprehended and executed this story was confirmed as an unquestionable truth by all the other prisoners, who affirmed that all the fathers of the church at Lima, as well as many of the laity, that saw the thief in the Vir gin's custody, were ready to attest the truth of the flor yon the 29th, a committee for the regulation of plunder was held on board the Duke, wherein it was agreed, " That loose jewels, all kinds of womens trinkets, gold-rings, excepting such as-night be found in goldsmiths shops, should be deemed plunder; as also all sorts of ship-plate, and ready-made clothes ; besides which Mr.- James Stratton, in part amends for his smarts stoney, was allowed forty rupees; to Williams 6. Daw Sa
Davis and Derrick Derrickfon were given twenty rupees each, a rupee being of about half a crown value; to the boat's crew that engaged the Marquis when taken, one bale of serges, one of linen, and two of bays, to be by them sold where they should think proper; and to each of the men who went up the river last, beyond Guiaquil, in the Duchess's pinnace a suit of clothes, over and above their re specie shares.",These rewards were distributed by way of en encouraging the men to behave gallantly for the fu. ture: notwithstanding which generosity of the commanders, a dangerous mutiny was set on foot a few days after, which might have proved of the worst consequence, had it not been discovered by the seward of the Duchess, who chanced to over hear the ringleaders holding a council upon the manner in which they were to proceed: above sixty of them had bound themselves in certain ar titles, which they had respectively signed, to sand by one another till they had obtained justice, as they termed it, in regard of the plunder, which they imagined unfairly difiributed.,At first, four of the principal contrivers of this destructive scene, among whom was the transcriber of the articles, were taken into custody, and laid in irons: however, they were soon after set at liberty upon their expressing some contrition for their crime, asking pardon, and promising to behave better for the future. The captains thought mildness tl. belt measure, as circumstances then appeared, for to have proceeded rigorously again a few, when so many were concerned, might have been attended with the worst conSequences. Every thing seemed to move once again in its proper sphere, and the men unanimous in the common interest, after being harangued by captain Rogers, :who assured them that they should be satisfied goethe
the utmost in every legal demand whatsoever; promised them an encrease of their respective Shares of plunder; and concluded with pathetically re demonstrating to them the danger of encouraging such conspiracies as this that had been so lately premeditated chap. X. (Offers. Navarre and Montreal are restored to their re Jpc7iive hips ; civility of the privateer's people to the fi-ir sex ; the island Gorgonaa described; the Jhp sees fails Tecmes ; their proceedings while in that bay; Mr. Navarre takes leave of them; Secures described; a character of the natives; description of the Tres Maria islands; the natural civility of the natives of California; one of the Manila ships taken, another escapes; the Guiaquil hostages et at liberty; captain Dover appointed captain of the prize; op pend by captain Rogers.,UGUST the 6th, in a council of the prin \ cipal officers of the three ships held on board the Duchess, they bound themselves by oath, ne ver to quit company while there was a possibility of their keeping together; and it was also at the same time proposed, that every man should swear that he did not conceal, neither would he hereafter conceal any plunder whatsoever which he could not claim as his own, under a penalty of twenty shillings to be paid for every shilling's worth so con ceased; but this was objected to by many of the: hands, and therefore postponed for the presentation the 7th, it was agreed to give up to Messrs:. lorcll and Navarre their respective ships, with orme negroes, and such of the goods as were nott,Â·irms-
immediately vendible; and this was accordingly done directly. Some ladies, who were on board Navarre's ships, and about whom there had been found a good booty, acknowledged at their de. pasture, the great civilities they had received dur. ing their been, detained; and certainly, good usage to the fair sex, especially if they are young and handsome, is a great virtue in a privateer's crew.,Gorgonaaa is three leagues in length, north-earl and fouth-wvr: but narrow. It is about six leagues from the main, full of wood and tall trees, one of which is called Palma Maria, fit enough for masts, and from which a balsam if.ihs, that is efficacious in several disorders. The island appears at a distance indifferently high, divided into three little hills. There is rising for ships all along the north side of it, butin some places foul ground, and shoals near the flor;, particularly on the south. eat side, and near the fouth.-.efl end, where there is a small island almost joining to Gorgonaa, with shoal ground. The Spaniards mention strange forms and heavy tornadoes of wind as happening about this island ; but captain Rogers found it otherwise, meeting only some few showers, and now and then thunder; but from spring till the beginning of May there are frequent ifrong breezes from the northward about this island are several remarkable rocks, as one to the south-west, that looks like a sail, if viewed half a mile off shore. At the north-eat end there are several high ones, round and steep, near a cable's length off lore, where plenty of sea-fowls breed the beasts and insects in this iflirld are mon lies, Guinea-pigs, hares, lizards, and lion-lizards, the latter; cameleon-like, change their colours, and,iare n creatures to look at. Here are also several,.etse
species of snakes of all sizes, and those in such. plenty, that walking is not very safe there is great variety of plants and trees growing here, moss of them peculiar to the hot climates and scarcely known in Great Britain. Here are several sorts of sith not to be found in our feast betides mullets in great plenty, but hard to be caught with hooks and lines, which is oc cautioned by the clearness of the water; so that they easily see the hook, and avoid it. Here is also some white coral, and abundance of oysters, whence good pearls are very often taken.,Some of the Du!:e's people caught here an ugly creature, of the middle sized monkey-kind, the hair -f it thick and long, the eyes, nose, and features little, the face more wrinkled and deformed than that of a monkey, the ears not so large, the teeth long and sharp, the hinder parts clumsy, and the body thicker in proportion, with a very (short tail, and instead of five claws like fin gers, as a monkey has, this animal had only three on each paw, with the claws longer and sharper. One of them was allowed to climb up one of the mizen shrouds, and it was two hours in getting to the malt-head, a talk which a monkey would have performed in less than half a minute. It walked a slow and equal pace, as if all ifs movements had been directed by clock-work. The Spaniards call it, not improperly, a sloth ; they say it feeds on the leaves of a certain lofty tree, and when it has cleared all about it, before it can get down, and reach another; it grows lean and becomes almost starve dour navigator saw few land-birds here, the mon lies being great destroyers of their eggs. Of the lait mentioned species many were f :ot, and of them were made fricaiees and broth for the sick; but none of the officers would table them, provisions-,4lo.,
not being yet so scarce, captain Dampier indeed who had been accustomed to such food, said hi never eat any thing in London, that seemed more delicious to him than a monkey or baboon in theft parts august the Both captain Rogers proposed sending the Marquis to Brazilee, to sell her cargo of prize goods, and to procure an additional flock of-fresh provisions, while the Duke and Duchess, which he supposed sufficiently firing for that purpose, (hould continue in the present latitude in expectation of the Manila ship; but this proposition was rejected, tho' it was evident that acceding thereto must have been attended with many advantages, for the Marquis, though lightened considerably by having thrown over. board two heavy guns, twenty boxes of snuff; and some other lumbering goods, sailed very heavily: and it being captain Rogers's opinion that she would rather retard than assist their designs, he would willingly have parted both with her and the bark, and it appeared afterwards that he was right, though for the present the majority was against him august the 12th they found themselves thirteen leagues distant from Gorgonaa, that island bearing from them south and by east; on the I8th the Duchess took a vessel bound from Panama to Lima: he was about 70 tons, and had nothing valuable board but twenty-four negroes; from the crew of this prize they learned that the whole coast was now alarmed with their being in those seas; and that the inhabitants were in the greatest apprehend. sons imaginable, having dreaded a visit from them ever since the taking of Guiaquil.,August the 25th the two barks were ordered first into the bay of 7 ecumes, and the concert ships came to anchor near them in a few hours; it was here Sir Francis Drake took the very valuable plate prize in 1578 and here also in 1591-, Sir Richard,iawkin!
hawkins was made prisoner by the Spaniards. Mr. White, the linguist, having ventured ashore with omne sailors, without orders, had like to have paid for his disobedience, for the Indians attacked them from an ambuscade with fire-arms, bows, arrows, and lances; and they were obliged for their prefer nation from destruction to the shade of night and the shelter of a wood: however they came to an agree ment the following day, through the mediation of a friar taken in the lass prize; and the Indians having accepted of a present of three images of saints, and a feathered cap, intended as a present to the wife of their chief, they washed cff the red paint where with they were daubed, and which, when worn by them, denotes their intentions to be hostile-fending several bows and arrows as a gift, in return to cap tain Rogers.,They now behaved very quietly, pointing out to the boat's crew that went in search of water, where the freshest was to be had; and not scrupling to come on board and view thefhip; one of them par ticularlv, who was quite naked, was so charmed with the sight, that he was scarcely to be persuaded out of the great cabbin, in which he stretched him self, and lay a long while as if indulging in the ease it afforded; however at last he was content to depart, and seemed easily satisfied with a good draught of brandy, and a piece of old bayes given him by way of garment. The 26th the boats re turned laden with water, and brought a letter from the friar, who acted as governor of the village, set ting forth, that the inhabitants were ready to ex change all sorts of frcflh provisions, as cows, hogs, plantains, &c. for bayes and other goods to be sent allure for that end ; by which means they were Coon ell flocked with provisions, altho' not sufficient for the whole voyage, they being soon after obliged to bear away for the Gallapagoes, to take in a supply of,turtle.
turtle. Before they quitted Became, they set tht friar, who had acted as their plenipotentiary, ashore at his own request ; giving him, by way of acknow. lodgment for his good behaviour, a black female slave, of whom he appeared fonder than become his function ; they also sent to the friar or priest of the village a male slave, and a piece of bayes, in requital for his kindness; and disposed of-the ufelefsnegroee, four bales of bayes, and one piece of hamlet, to Signior Navarre, whom they parted with here, he promising to remit three thousand five hundred piece of eight in return, to Jamaica, by the way of Porto Bello, on their owners account. They now put all their prisoners into an unrigged bark, leaving them liberty to run her ashore at high water, and set sail about six in the morning of the 3 it, with a sel gale at south southwest, taking with them only two of the hostages that they had detained on accounts the non-payment of the ransom of Guiaquil, and whom they resolved to carry with them to England; there had been three in all, but the least confide. able of the three they had put on board the prize, with the other enfranchised prisoners the village of Became lies close to the water. side, consisting only of seven houses and a church, wherein the buccaneers found nothing valuable; fa that it was very probable, that on their approach, the inhabitants, who are very expert in hunting ani fishing, had carried off their best things to the woods. The houses are built of split bamboes,co0 vexed with palette leaves, and raised upon pols, with hogfiies beneath ; the ascent to them being notched pieces of wood, placed aslant, which fern instead of stairs; there is a larger village, the real hence of the reverend father whom we have besom mentioned, about four leagues up the country, r the intermediate space is not without people; the .re two or three contiguous rivers, which here di,chati
charge themselves into the sea. About'midnight a land breeze commonly springs up here at south and south and by east, which dies away about noon; and in the afternoon the sea breeze comes on and reigns till midnight at west and weft-southwest. The weather is generally dry here from June to December, and from January to May they have lit showers to the northward the Indians are barbarous and resolute, using poisoned arrows and fire-arms in their engagements: they are best at bush. fighting; there is no dealing with them by force, and whoever is necessitated to touch upon this coast, muff endeavour to make friends of them by gentle means september the 8th the three concert ships made the Gallapago islands, where they continued taking in turtle and salt, of both which here are great plenty, till the morning of the 17th: there is but one of these islands, which the Spaniards reckon fifty in number, that yields fresh water; they abound with sea and land-birds, among the latter are hawks, and turtledove so tame that they sussex themselves to be knocked down with a slick; here are also seals so very fierce that they will attack any man who chances to fall in their way, as captain Rogers experienced who found it very hard to drive sone of them that made at him with all the rage of an in censed mastiff, and which he wounded in three places with a pike that he held in his hand, before it would quit him; while they staid upon this islands seven of tsheirnegroes, out of ten that were sent ashore to cut firing, deserted into the woods.,On the 2d of Otober the land of Mexico bearing north-east at about ten leagues distance, some of the men began to grow faint and sickly however they were recovered by bleeding; their disorder certainly arose from their scanty allowance of bread, it being 'ut one pound and a quarter per day among five,snan,
men, and their principal food otherwise being tunli which, though as fresh provision it is a preservation against the scurvy, cannot be deemed a strengthened October the 4th they came up with the Tres Maria islands, where they remained till the 24th to cu wood and take in water and turtle; though it wi not without difficulty they found a stream that wi wholesome, all springs which they met, two except ed, from which they supplied themselves, being only bitter, but strong purgatives, occasioned bj some neighbouring mineral or bitter roots. Thes islands lie in latitude twenty degrees forty-five mi. notes, or thereabouts, the largess of them appearing to be about five leagues long, the middlemost about three, and the smallest not quite two leagues fro. end to end; they afford plenty of pigeons, dove, parrots, and other species of birds, with some excel, lent hares, canoes, and racoons, which are bold il-natured and snarl like dogs. It was during the fil of the concert ships at these islands that captain Thb mas Dover, byconfentofa committee, quittedttt Duke for the Duchess; here also a resolution wa taken of cruising off cape St. Lucas, the moftfouth fern point of California, in hope to fall in withal Manila or Acapulco (hip. On the roth a near woman on board the Duke was delivered of a gir, by Mr. Waste the chief surgeon, in a close rabbi provided for that purpose. Captain Rogers, ill account of this voyage, takes care to warn there! from accusing the crew lewdness, or an indulges of libidinous desires, which he fears they will othe wise be too apt to do, after a retrospect of thiscii cum france; he assures us that this woman had Es been among them above six months; thatanoth negro wench on board, called Daphne, was fvesl ly threatened in case she should be found unchaste and that one on board the Duchess was whipped the capfiern for a love-flip. These females had,,fecI
ems, a smattering of English, and supplied the ace of cooks, laundresses, and distresses. November the ifs, being in latitude twenty-two degrees fifty-five minutes, they discovered the land California bearing about eight leagues distant 'eft and by north; here very first orders were ate against gaming; on the x7th some Indians re discovered at a distance on bark-log, as it were hewing the flip, which they seemed fearful of ap reaching, but were at length prevailed upon by a resent of a knife and some bays, for which they turned some deer skins, two live foxes, and a cou le of bladders of water; they were quite naked, nd entirely unacquainted with the Spanish tongue, hence it was plain they had no communication with the Spaniards, and appeared to be strangers to he European manner of trafficking. Some of the p's crew ventured ashore on the Igth on bark dogs, for the sea was too high for them to attempt anding out of boats; the natives in a very good-nan used manner assisting them as much as in their over lay, wiping the water from their faces with heir hands. This ceremony being ended, each of the tailors, supported by two of these savages, was led through narrow path, of about a quarter of a mile's extent, o their huts, where their welcome was played upon most uncouth instrument, being only two jagged !ices, accompanied by a voice still more wretch !d, wild, and barbarous. Here they were enter gained with broiled fish, and presented with knives nate of shark's teeth, and several other little curio cities; these poor savages teeming as if willing to hare every thing with them, except their women nd children, of which they were too fond to per it strangers to partake, though this participation in,Pme parts of the world is esteemed an honour. The,21ft
gift the boat was sent ashore with a musician; but captain Rogers does not inform us what effect har. noxious sounds had upon these rough uncivilized people; he says that the boat did not return till the day following, when she brought an account sofa very safe bay not far distant, with a good rivers fresh water falling into it, and huts near it for five hundred and more Indians, who could supply the ships with nothing but fil; this bay our authors. poses to be the place wherein Sir Thomas Cavendish recruited, anno 1588.,On the 27th the Indians began togrowmo!e shy, and to keep a greater distance with the sailor, as if they feared the buccaneers slaying so long among them manifested a greater liking to leland than they would have probably consented to let them indulge. November the 28th two men were punished for stealing the key of the flore-room from the steward as he lay asleep, and filching there some sugar and bread: this crime was at this time the more unpardonable, as their flock of bread rana very short; nor did there seem any way of improve. ing it till they arrived at Guam, for which island the intended to fleer, when they should quit Californi,,They all now began to despair of meeting with the Manila ship this year, a month beingelapfed fine the common time in which she was wont to pah this way: but to the general joy se was discovered on the 2ifl of December; and on the 22d, He struck to the Duke, after a short engagement, where. in she loR nine men, and had many more wounded; the only damage the Duke sustained, was, that cap tain Cook waa, that in the cheek, whereby his jaw v, :s broke, and one sailor, a Welchman, was night bruited. This flip was commanded by Sir John P!chberty, a gallantFrcnchman, to whom the lucca needs in a few days after gave his liberty, togethi,svito
with the bark laden with prize goods, for which they accepted his bills upon London for six thousand dollars. On board this vessel the two Guiaquil ho sages were also permitted to embark this flip had one hundred and ninety-three men on board; [he mounted twenty guns and twenty parterres; and came out of port with a much stronger vessel of nine hundred tons, with which the buccaneers came up in some few days after, but were obliged to quit her after a flying might that continued near two days. January the if', the bark with Pichberty, the stages, &c. turned out of port Segura, where ey then all lay, fleering for Acapulco, being sup lied with a sufficient stock of provisions and wa er: and captain Pichberty, together with his osiers and chaplain, having all their books, clothes, nd instruments restored to them; a piece of civility by them gratefully acknowledged. In a day or two after, captain Dover was by a majority of officers, in a full committee appointed commander of the prize, which was named the bachelor frigate; and against this nomination, Voices Rogers, who had but an indifferent opinion of captain Dover, when considered in the git of a naval officer, entered a solemn pro ft, which was also subscribed to by the Duke's incipit officers; whereupon, to prevent the differs that might ensue from heart-burnings and e encouragement of disputes among each other; new committee assembled, wherein it was resolved it captain Dover should continue on board the size, with the title of chief captain, but without vy power in regard to sailing, engaging, or other airs immediately refpeaino the flip, the care of which business, devolved equally upon Mr. Stratton nd Mr, Frye; wherewith Rogers and his people were i satisfied, and unanimity was again restorers * l~~~~~~~~~~TF
It was next agreed, as their business in those seas was now pretty well over, and they should think of returning to Europe, that in case of a reparation, the place of rendezvous should be at Guam, one of the Ladrones.,January the lith, they weighed from port Segura, intending for Guam, having but a slender flock of provisions and liquors, the most of which they had got on board the Batchelor frigate ; and the daily allowance among five men, reckoning twenty-slur hours in the day, was a pound and a half of flour and a small piece of meat, with three pints of water each to drink, and to serve for dressing vic. tuas also. And now, good reader, while they are upon this voyage, it may not perhaps be disagree able to you, should we shep back a little, and take a view of California, Mexico, and some other count. tries, along the coasts of which we have for fume time accompanied the concert ships chap. XI. A description of California. IT is not yet certainly known whether Californians-an island, or joins to the continent. Some of the Spaniards sailed as far up betwixt California and the main, as latitude forty-two north, where meeting with shoal water, and abundance ot islands, they durst not venture any further. In all probability, it joins to the continent a little further to the northward; for shoal water and islands is a general sign of the contiguity of mair land. But the Spaniards having more territories ir this part of the cor i iran they knew how to ma naze, they are indolent in pursuit of other disco veries.,Somn
Some old draughts join California to the land of Jeflo. The Dutch say they formerly took a Spanish vessel in those seas, which had fas ed round California, and found it to be an island; but this fiery cannot be depended on. There is no certain account of its shape or bigness. The land is for the most part mountainous, barren, and sandy, producing nothing but a few shrubs and bushes, which afford some fruit ; and berries of several sorts. The country about fifteen leagues to the north, is covered with tall trees. The Spaniards talk of several good harbours in this country, but the English have not found them; from the quantity of smoak arising in different parts, one may judge that the inhabitants are very. numerous. An choking ground, in the deep water of the bay is very indifferent: upon the whole, it is a very bad recruiting place. The buccaneers, during their slay here, found the air serene, pleasant, and healthy, with light gales of wind, little rain, heavy dews, and the nights rather cool than other wife the natives, of which they few about three hun died, were strait and tall, with large limbs, and of a much blacker complexion than any other people in the South-seas. Their hair long, black, and strait, hung down to their thighs. The men were stark naked, and the women had a covering of leaves over their privities, or little clouts made of silk grass, or the skins of birds and beasts. Both sexes appeared to be miserably old and wrinkled: it is supposed they were afraid to let any of their young ones come in sight; but if a Judgment may be formed from the sample, this was a needless apprehension, for they could have offered but little temptations he language of the natives being harsh, broad, 2nd guttural, was as grating upon the ear as their,\',L. VIIi. aspect
aspect was disagreeable to the eye. The captain was once inclined to have taken two of these people away with him, in order to have fomeac. count of the country, when they had learned En lish enough to enable them to gave it; but being short of provisions, he durst not venture it.,Some of them wear bracelets of pearl, red ber. ries, bits of slick and shells fastened on silk gras about their arms and legs; and these trinkets thy preferred to the gaudy glass beads presented them by the tailors, which they rejected, as if sensible their intrinsic value. They coveted nothing but knives and other cutting instruments, and were io honest, that they did not meddle with the car. enters or coopers tools; so that whatever was lft 2a!ore at night, was found untouched in the morning they had nothing like European furniture o: ut nails among them. Their huts were low, ard made of branches of trees and reeds, but nt sufficiently covered to keep out rain. They ha nothing like gardens about them. They subsides chest. on fifi ; from which circumstance 2nd the vere cheers of their huts, which seemed ont made for a time, the English concluded they ha no fixed habitation. They have no nets or hook' fer filling, but wooden instruments, with which they strike the fish very dextrously, and they die to admiration. Some of the tailors told captain Rogers they hed seen one of them dive with he instrument, and whilst he was under water, p' up his officer with a sith on the point of it, whic vats taken off by another of the savages thatho vere over him on a bark-log. The captain three same ruby knives overboard on purpose to try the! div-hers, who seldom missed catching a knife besot it could fink above three or four fathom; an e extraordinary proof of their agility. ll,Insc'
Instead of bread, they used a little black seed, in tafte.not unlike coffee, which they ground with stones, and eat it by handfuls. They have some roots like yams; a sort of seeds that grow in cods and taste like green pease; and a berry resembling those of ivy, which being dried at the fire, eat like parched pease. They have another berry which they value greatly, it is like a large currant, white and tart, with a pulp, a stone and a kernel echoed. They have a fruit which grows on a tree like the pickle pear-tree, it tastes like a goose merry, and is an agreeable sauce; with many other ends and plants unknown to us. They seem to have a season for hunting, by the sins of deer, &c. They paid a sort of particular efpeEt to one man, whose head was adorned with fathers, made up in the form of a cap; other vile all things among them appeared in common. 'hey are lazy and idle, seeming only to look after rrefnt subsistence. They food and looked pon the sailors whilst they cut wood and filled ,ater, but did not care to lend a hand, or indeed o do an' thing that required hard labour. ' Thir arms are bows and arrows, with which ihcv can shoot birds flying. The bows are about cEn foot long, and of a tough pliant wood, with firings of silk grass; thir arrows four foot d a half, made of cane, and pointed with fish ones, artfully shaped for 'the purpose. Most of er knives and other cutting instruments are made ff:.aris teeth. They have flor of large pearls, which they wear in necklaces and bracelets. The ountly in general is pleasant and fruitful, abound-sig with cattle and provisions of all sorts. The natives grew very familiar with the English, d came frequently aboard to view their slips, liich they mightily admired. They have no-ti or canoes among them, nor any other failings 2 craft,
craft, but bark-logs which-they fleer with paddles, They gave one of the natives a shirt, but he soon tore it in pieces, and gave it to the rest of his company to put the seeds in, which they used for bread. Captain Rogers saw no utensils for cook. very about them; for they bury their fish in a heap of sand, and make a fire over it till they think it fit for eating. The fresh water here is very good, and they have abundance of samphire. They make a fire in the middle of their huts, which are very low and fmoakv; and this fire they produce by rubbing two dry flicks against each other, as is customary among the wild Indians.,The entrance into the harbour may be known by four high rocks, which look like the Needles at the Isle of Wight, as you come from the westward; the most wefiermoft are in form of sugar-loves. The innermost has an arch like a bridge, through which the sea makes its way. In the deepest part of the bay, you may anchor from ten to twenty, or twenty-five fathom waters H A P. XII. Mexico described. Mexico lies betwixt eight degrees latitude, LV.L and fifty or fifty-five north, but it is little known or inhabited by the Spaniards to the north ward of thirty-five; it is divided into Old or New Mexico, which in general includes all the beside of North America, as far as it is known. It is divided into the audiences, or jurisdictions of St. Domingo, Mexico properly so called, Guada- lajara or New Gallic and Guatemala; and there again are subdivided into several provinces, with the appellations of which, we fall not troublesome
the reader. That part of it called New Spain, is the belt and most famous part of all North America and the name of New Spain is sometimes ex tended by the Spaniards to the wholesale air in general is mild, temperate, and healthy, and the soil so fertile, that in some places it produces one hundred grains for one ear of corn; but the great rains in summer hinder their having oi and wine their moi remarkable plant is that called ma lucy, which abounds in this country, and rome of it grows in the Maria islands; of the juice the Spaniards and natives make a small wine, &c. ,nd of the leaves and other parts they make cordage, thread, and cloth, for sacks and shirts. They have great and small cattle, and fowl in such plenty, that they frequently kill them only for the skins and feathers. They have also excellent horses of the best Spanish breed there are few gold mines in this country, but. abundance of silver, and though not so rich as those of Peru, they are more easily worked their other chief commodities are iron, steel, and copper, hides, wool, cotton, sugar, silk, co lineal, fc,.let dye, feathers, honey, wax, balm, anbergreafe, salt, abundance of medicinal drugs, coco, cassia, &c. The sands of the rivers sometimes wild gold, and they have plenty of figs, oranges, citrons, and other fruits peculiar to the climate, betides all those common in Europe. In many places they pick up crystal, turquoises, emeralds parasites, bezoar stones, and pepper. This niuft be understood of Mexico in general, for all those commodities are not in one province, but some have one sort and some another; nor is the temper of the climate every where the same, for thole places toward the South-sea are warm, but in and about the mountains it is cold, and in some,M 3 places
places they have continued rains almost for eight ol nine months in the year, and are much infested with serpents, mofkettos, and other infers, esse. chilly near the torrid zone.,WVe shall not pretend to give the history of their kings, because it would puzzle the ablest critics to distinguish betwixt truth and falshood. The Spa. nisi authors say, the kings of Mexico were very potent; that they had twenty-five or thirty petty kings their tributaries; that their ordinary guards usually consisted of two or three thousand men; and that on occasion they would raise two or three hundred thousand; that their palaces were mag munificent, their temples sumptuous, and their wor. flhi barbarous, it being usual for them to sacrifice their enemies, and sometimes their own fubjefs.,The natives of Old Mexico say, they are not cf that race of people, but that their ancestors came from divers nations, who inhabited the northern parts of the continent, and particularly that called New Mexico. It was a long time before they united into one monarchy; for Montezuma, who reigned when Fernando Cortez invaded them, was only the ninth in their catalogue. The divisions among the natives, and the hatred which the neigh pouring princes bore to their kings, made the con quiet t of Mexico much easier to the Spaniards than they expected; so that in the bishopric of Los Angeles, &c. there are many thousands of In diana exempted from extraordinary taxes, because their ancestors assisted the Spaniards in the conquest of the countryside natives of Mexico, I mean such as are properly so called, are civilized, industrious, and ingenious; their skill in painting is remarkable, their colouring is very beautiful, but their figures not so well proportioned; they use for brushes feathers of the canons, a small bird, which is,said
said to live only upon dew. They make use of certain characters, inAead of the letters of the al habet, by which they have preserved some frag ments of their history. One of the Spanish governors of Mexico got it out of the hands of the natives, with an explanation, and had it translated into Spa nigh. The Flip in which it was sent to the emperor Charles the Th, being taken by a French flip, the manuscript fell into the hands of Andrew Sheet at Paris, from whose heirs, Hakluyt, being then almoner to the English ambassador, purchased it. Sir Walter Raleigh got it translated into English,. and the learned Sir Henry Seaman prevailed with Purchase to get the figures engraved. This history is divided into three parts; the first contains little but an account of the names and conquests of their princes, with a summary of their vices and virtues; so that it is not worth insisting upon. The second lias an account of the tributes paid by the people, which were proportions of the prcduA of the country for provisions, cloaths, arms, habits, and ornaments, paper, and household furniture. The third gives an account of the ceconomy, customs, and discipline of the Mexicans; of which, because they are remarkable, we shall insert a few parti culars.,i our days after a child was born, the midwife carried it to the yard of the house, laid it upon rushes, and after washing it, desired three boys, who were there at a sort of feast, to name it how they pleated. If it was a boy, the put into its hand the tools belonging to its father's employment; as, his arms, if a soldier. If it was a gir, a distaff or some other female utensil. If the boy was designed for the church, they carried him at a certain age to the temple, with some presents, and left him with the high priest to be educated ; and if he was intended for a military life, they carried 4 him
him to an officer to teach him the use of arms. The parents corrected them by blows, or pricking them with needles made of the magnet-tree. The father pricked the boys, if unlucky, all over their body, and the mother pricked her daughters only in the sifts. When boys were pretty well grown, they tied them hand and foot, and laid them in muddy water naked a whole day, and then their mother took them out and cleaned them at night. XVhen a maid was to be married, the marriage maker carried her on his back to the bridegroom's house, four women bearing torches before her; the bridegroom's friends received her in the yard or court. carried her to a room, and set her down by him on a mat, and tied the skirts of their gar nests together, offered incense to their idols, and had four old men or women to be witnesses of the ceremony. After a feast, the witnesses exhorted them to live well together, and so the whole was concluded the priests trained up their novices in sweeping and ornamenting their temples, making cane seats, forming needles or thorns of magnet, to draw blood for sacrifices, or gathering shrubs to keep in the perpetual fire; and if they failed in their duty, they were returned to their parents. If they were catched with women, they were pricked with those needle sone of the chief priests went every night to a neighbouring mountain, where he did penance, carried fire and perfume to sacrifice to the devil, and was always attended by a novice i others of them played on musical instruments, and some of them counted the hours by an observation of the stars. The chief dignities of the priesthood were attained to by degrees, and some of them always attended the armies to encourage the men and per form their rites. Those, who trained the youth to,srait,
war, punished their scholars by. throwing burning coals on their heads, pricking them with slicks of pine (happened at one end, or by burning off their hair. Their kings rewarded their soldiers accord ing to the number of prisoners they took, with military habits of several colours, or posts in the army, till they came to the highest. Their chief Priest were also men of arms, and capable of all I military preferments their capital punishments were strangling or tilting to death. If a cacique or petty prince re belled, all his subjects shared in his punishment, except they found some method to appease the king. They punished drunkenness in young men by death, but allowed it in old men and women of seventy. Highwaymen and adulterers they toned to death. They had assemblies for public affairs, wherein the great master of the emperor's or king's household exhorted youth to avoid idleness, gam irg, drunkenness, and other vices.,As to the present natives, most of them are sub jed te the Spaniards, but in Come of the mountains and northern parts, they are not reduced ; so that they frequently attack the Spaniards when they meet with a favourable opportunity. In that called New Mexico, some of the natives are very barbarous, and much given to arms; the men wear nothing but skins, and the women scarce any other covering than their hair. They live for the most part on raw flesh, and go together in troops, changing their habitation as the season or conveniency of pasturage require. Their oxen and cows are large, with finally horns, hair almost like wool, long before, and short be hind, a bunch on their backs, great beards like goats, and their fore-legs short: they are ugly looking creatures, but very strong; and the prin "pal riches of the natives, who feed upon their,1A 5 - fseQ
flesh make cloaths and roofs to their huts of their skins, thread of their hair, bowstring of their nerves, utensils of their bones, and trumpets of their horns; in their bladders drink is kept, and their dung serves for firing, wood being scarce here they have sheep as large as our asses, and dogs so firing, that they make them carry their bag. gage this country is inhabited by people's different languages and manners; some of them live in ci. ties, of which it is said there are several that con tain from thirty to fifty thousand inhabitants; others wander about in herds like the Arabs or Tartars: but in short, this country is so little known, and travellers differ so much in their rely. tions concerning it, that but few accounts can be relied upon there are many opinions about the peopling America, but the most reasonable is, that it was peopled from Tartary by way of the north pole, where it is supposed to join with some part of Asia This is very probable, because the Spaniards, who came yearly hither from Manila or Laconia, one of the Philippine islands in the East-Indies, are forced to keep in a high latitude for the benefited westerly winds, and have often founded, finding ground in latitude forty-two degrees north in five. rat lances of the ocean betwixt the East-Indies and America. It is wonderful that no considerable dis. coteries have yet been made in south latitude from America to the East-Indies. The south ocean ha not been run over by above three or four navis gators, who varied little in their runs from their course, and by consequence, could not discords much the land near the north pole in the South-Se, from California to Japan, is wholly unknown; al,4 thculh
though the old maps describe the Streights of Arian, and a large continent, it is but imaginary, for the Dutch themselves, that now trade to Japan, say they do not know whether it be an island, or joins to the continent. We shall take up no more of the reader's time with Mexico, as he will find many more entertaining particulars relative thereto by turning back to Gemelli.,Captain Rogers was informed by a man who es caped to him from the Spaniards at Guiaquil, that several Englishmen, who had been at different times made prisoners here, had grown rich, having ob gained their freedom by turning Roman catholics: among there was a clock-maker from Dover, his name was Thomas Built, and he was well fettled in TobaCco; captain Thomson, formerly of the Isle of Wight; and one Thomas Falkner, born in Pall Mall. No mulattoes, nor of the mixed breed are admitted to any ecclesiastical dignities ; the sweets of these are reserved intirely for native Spaniards. Through the intrusion of some few English, whom either chance or choice had thrown upon this coast, the natives of late had learned to make very fine woollen cloaths, and considerable improvements both in their silk and woollen manufactures. ]their mountain-woods consist mostly of pine, and no concert that can be conceived affords a harmony equal to what is heard from the birds that inhabit them; for no nation yields a greater variety of singing birds than Mexico; which terrestrial para dise we shall quit, to take a survey of the neigh bourne kingdom of Peru.,M 6 CHAP.
C -I A P. XIII. A dJc-r;ptiin of Peru and Chili, Ec. p E R U, properly so called, is about a thousand X leagues long, but the breadth varies from one iun.mred to three hundred leagues. The beds known part of it lies cn the South-sea, and is di vied into three audiences; Quito in the north, Lima in the middle, and La Plata in the south, The air of Quito is temperate, though under the line: the soil is fruitful, abounding with cattle and corn, and affording mines of gold, silver, quick silver, and copper; also emeralds and many species of medicinal drugs. The audience of Lima is mc:ft noted, because of its capital of the same name, being the residence of the viceroy of Peru.,This country abounds with mines of gold, filter, quick-fiver, vermilion, and fait. The silver mines of Potosi are much decayed, yet it is said the king of Spain receives from them annually two millions of crowns, or four hundred thousand pounds sier- lil;g, for his fifth the Spanish writers in general say, that for the space of five hundred leagues, reckoning from Tun bes to Chili, it never thunders, lightens, nor rains; but the want of this. is supplied by great dews, so that they have as good corn and fruit, and par ticular!y wheat, about Truxillo, as in any part the world.,In tie valleys near the sea, the climate is hot, hut tempered with breezes from the ocean and mountains. In the hilly part, far into the country, it is winter and very rainy, when it is summer in the laidns; though in the same latitude. The pro-,ducqb
otus beasts and birds, are much the same with those of the other parts of the South-sea coat they have their cordage, cotton, cloth, pitch, and tar from Chili and Rio Leo in Mexico; and though the country abounds with provision, it is al ways dear near the mines, because there husbandry is neglected. The cordage is made of coarse silk grass, which is very tough, drawing small when strained, but growing twice as big when flacked.,Captain Stradling, who had been formerly a prisoner here, told captain Rogers he saw several of the Spaniards at Lima, who had been prisoners to him, and they all acknowledged that they had been treated very civilly. The gold mines are most of them in the north parts betwixt Panama and the equinoctial line before the French traded to Peru round Cape Horne, there was a considerable commerce from Panama to all the ports of the South-sea; but since that time, they have had such a glut of European goods, that the trade is scarce worth following. The Spaniards have a great many (hips and small vesSels belonging to the several ports of Peru, which are chiefly employed in carrying timber, salt, salt-fifi, wine, brandy, oil, and other commodities from one part of the coast to another, without which they could not well subsist; for this country is said to be more populous and better inhabited than Mexico. They make woollen cloth of several torts; captain Rogers saw some made at Quito, worth about eight shillings per yard, sold there for live dollars. The Indians likewise make a coarse sort (f cotton cloth, but the French furnish them better and cheaper the Spanish settlements in Peru, as well as in Mexico and Chili, are not so full of Indians as formerly; for many of them are gone to remote parts, and live in colonies by themselves, to avoid,slavery
slavery and taxes, for they are obliged to pay from eight to fourteen dollars per head yearly to the king; which tax is now considerably lessened by the removal of so many natives the Spaniards in Peru are very profuse in their cloathing and equipage, and affect to wear the most costly things that can be purchased: so that those who trade hither with commodities of this sort, may be sure to have the greatest snare of their wealth chili lies nearest to those who stall think fit to attempt a trade from England to the South-sea. Father Ovalle, a native of Chili, agrees with our maps, in placing it farthest south of any part of America, on that called the South or Pacific Sea. He bounds it with Peru on the north, the Streights of Magellan on the south, Paraguay, and Patagonia on the earl, and the South-sea on the west. He begins it at south latitude twenty-five, and ex tends it to latitude fifty-nine, which is near five hundred leagues the breadth of it varies, and the broadest part from east to west he makes about one hundred and fifty leagues, though Chili, properly so called, is not above twenty or thirty leagues broad, from the chain of mountains named Cordillera to the South Sea: but when the king of Spain divided America into particular governments, he added to Chili the vast plains of Cusco, which are of an equal length with, and twice as broad as Chili itself. The country in general Ovalle places in the third, fourth, and fifth climates; the longest day in the third, is thirteen hours; and in the fifth above fourteen alm gro was the first European who attempted a conquest of this country, but it was never totally subdued till the year 1640. The Spaniards, who have sufficiently experienced the valour of this,people,
people, treat them therefore with more civility than they do the rest of the Americans.,The Canons say, that Chili, in the language of the country, signifies cold which is so excessive in the mountains called Sierra Nevada, a part of the Cordillera, that it freezes men and cattle to death, and keeps their corps from putrefaction; so that Allegro lost a great many of his men and horses as he past those mountains, of which march we have given some account in the fe conc volume of this Collection of Voyages, under the article of the Conquest of Peru. The val less towards the sea are very healthy, the climate temperate, and the soil fruitful, though with some difference, as it lies nearer or further from the equator; but the coasts are subject to strong gales of wind the country is divided into three quarters, and those three into thirteen jurisdictions. The quarter of Chili proper extends from the river Copia to that of Male, and is hotter than Spain. The second quarter, called Imperial, reaches from the river Male to that of Galleys, and much re females the climate of Spain. The proximity of the mountains on one side, and of the Sea on the other, makes it colder than otherwise it would be; but it has warmth enough to make it one of the best countries in America.,Ovalle tells us, that in Chili, properly so called, the soil and climate exceed in goodness those of any part of Europe and this report is confirmed by the confessions of the Europeans themselves: he says, it is like the greatest part of Europe in e'cry thing except the opposition of the seasons, it being spring and sumner in one part, when it is autumn and winter in the other; but in the valleys the heat and cold are not so excessive as in Europe, especially from latitude thirty-fix, or there-about,
abouts, to latitude forty-five; so that neither the heat of the day, nor the cold of the night can be complained of: from hence it is that the inhabitants make no difference between the summer and the winter in their bedding and cloaths. He adds, that they are not troubled here with lightning, and seldom hear thunder, except at a great difiance.,They have no forms of hail in the spring, and seldom above two or three rainy days together in the winter, after which the sky is serene. The north winds bring on clouds and rain, and the south winds clear the sky. They have no poison. vous or ravenous creatures, except a small sort of lions, which sometimes prey on their flocks, but always fly from men; nor are these lions numerous there being only a few of them in the woods and desarts. He observes, as a peculiar property of the air of Chili, that no biggs will live in it, though they swarm in Cusco, on the other side of the mountains. From the whole he infers, that there is no country in America so agreeable to Eu european constitutions as Chili, the air and prove. sons being so like their own. The spring begins about the middle of Augur, and lasts till the mid idle of November; the summer holds to the middle of February, the autumn continues to the middle of May, and the winter to the mid idle of August. During this last season the trees are deprived of their leaves, and the ground is co vexed with white frosts, which are dissolved about two hours after the fun rites. The snow falls fel dom in the valleys, but in great quantities in the mountains, from whence it is melted in the sum mer, and crucified the valleys and plains with rib valets. In the spring the fields are adorned with beautiful flowers of all colours and species. From them is distilled a liquid called angels water, which makes a noble perfume. The choices flowers and plants k
plants that the English cultivate grow wild there; they have groves of mustard-trees higher than a man on horseback, wherein birds build their nests. 7 hey have many physical plants and herbs, with which their Indian physicians perform wonderful cures, when the patients are even given over by the European doors; but they are very shy of communicating th-se secrets fruits and seeds brought hither from Europe thrive well, but those of Mexico and Peru do not succeed. Here are all sorts of English fruits, in such abundance that every one may take what they please; to that none is sold, except a sort of extraordinary large strawberries, which are cultivated with Come little trouble. They have oats, wheat, and mais, in such plenty, that they are seldom in want of grain. Their pastures are so rich, and their cattle, of all sorts, so numerous, that they do not value the flehl, but salt the tongues and loins, and send them to Peru with the hides and tallow, which is a great branch of their trade they have store of noble and generous wines, both white and red; their vines are larger, and their clusters of grapes much bigger than any in Europe, They have also plenty of olives, groves of coco-trees, extending several leagues; almond-trees, and flore of silk-grass, which they use instead of hemp ; so that they furnish all the coasts the South Sea-with cordage for their ships. They have also great quantities of annie and cummin-feed, fahr, six, wool, leather, timber, pitch, amber; and, ac ,outing to Ovalle, merchants upon the trade from hence to other parts in the South-sea, but especial to Lima, may gain from one hundred to three Hundred per cent. profit though they have abundance of mulberries, they *read no silk-worms; so that the ladies, who are extravagant in their apparel', impoverish the country
try by purchasing the richest silks, though they might easily have enough of their own produce. They have plenty of bees, yet have their wax from Eu. rope, for want of industry to improve their oven; bnd they have pepper and other spice from the East-Indies, though they have a spice of their own, which might very well supply the place of them. Herbage, fishing, hunting, wood for fuel, and timber, and salt mines are here in common. They make little use of their mines of lead and quick filler, for Peru has enough of the latter to purify their fil,.er.,Ovalle says the good mines are so many, that from the confines of Peru to the straights of i'a. magellan, there is no part of the country without them, but they are not so much noticed as in Pe. ru; nor do they apply to working of the fiver mines, because those of gold are wrought with less charge. Gold is not dug here in such plenty since the war betwixt the Spaniards and Arancanos; but the natives wait for the winter rains which wash it down from the mountains into rivers, ponds, &c when they go into the water, feel out the grains with their toes, and soon pick up as much as sup plies their present necessities; thus says our author: but it appears to be a very odd way of getting gold. He tells us, that he sent one of those grains to Neville, where being touched, it was found toe twenty-three carats fine without being purified. soft of the bells and great guns used in Peru, ait made of the copper of this countryside Andes or chain of mountains named Cordial. hera", he says, run from north to south from the pro. vince of Quito to the straights of Magellan, which i above a thousand leagues, and they are accounted the,* Cordillera is the Spanish for any ridge of hills of vast A' tent, but Is particularly applied to the Andes, these noiu;n; running the vehicle length of South America.,cit,
higher mountains in the world; being generally forty leagues broad, and intermixed with abundance of habitable valleys. There mountains form two ridges i the lower is covered with woods and groves, but the higher barren, because of the excessive cold and the snow lying thereon. The mois remarkable animals in these mountains are, a species of hogs called pearls, which have their navels on their backs; these go in great herds, with ech their leader, and till he be killed, it is not fare with hunters to close with them, but when he falls they immediately disperse. Wild goats, whose h :ir is as soft as silk, and much used for fine hats. Sheep shaped like camels, but of a far less size, with wool so fine that it is preferred to silk for softness and colour the antient Incas, or princes, cut two roads thro' there mountains ; and, if we may believe Herrera, one of them was paved for nine hundred leagues, ail the way from Cusco to Chili: it was twenty-five feet broad, and at every four leagues there was a noble structure, and, at each half league, couriers to relieve one another in carrying messages from the state. He says, there are still a sort of inns on this road, where travellers find all necessities; but the paths into the mountains are so narrow that a single mule can scarce pass them. The ascent begins at the very sea-shore; but to reach what are properly called the tops of the mountains, requires three or four days journey. Here the air is so very piercing that it is difficult to breathe. Herrera says, that those who pass them from Peru, are troubled with reaching and vomiting. Ovalle adds, that there are meteors upon those mountains sometimes so high in the air that they re semble ears i and at other times so low, that they s1ig-iten the mules and bus about their ears and feet. ie fi.ys on the top of those mountains, they cannot,fee
see the country below for clouds, though the rky over their heads is clear and bright, and the fun things strongly there are sixteen volcanos in this chain of mountains which sometimes break out x with dreadful ester, cleaving the rocks and throwing out great quantities of fire with the most horrid noise. It is thought there are many rich mines among those mountains, though the natives industriously conceal them, and make it death to discover them, which has defeated several attempts of that nature by tie Spaniards.,There mountains are passable only in sumner or in the beginning of the winter. There are frightful precipices and deep rivers at the sides of the narrow passes, which frequently occasion the loss both of mules and travellers. The firearms run with such violence, and so far below the roads, that to look down must turn a weak head, The ascents and descents are so steep that they are difficult to pass on foot, but the irksomeness ofthe way is alleviated by the beautiful cascades which the water naturally forms as it falls from the rocks and mountains; and in some of the valleys the water springs up to a great height, like fountains made by art among odoriferous plants and flowers, forming a most delightful prorpe.a. All these Streams and springs are so very cool that a man cannot hold his hands in them above a minute. In sone places there are hotifprinrs, good against many distempers, which leave a green tir cure in the channels through wh.ci they run. One of these l'crs, called Mendoza, has a natural bridge or rock over it, from the vault o0 which hang several collected drops of water con sealed, exhibiting various shapes and colours this bridge is broad enough for three or four carts to pats abreast. There is another bridge near this, ca'!.d Incas. laid over, as some say, by art,betwixl
betwixt two rocks, but our author thinks it is the work of nature the first particular river which runs from these mountains is that which rises in the confines of Peru, about twenty-five degrees south latitude. It is called the River of Salt because it is so salt that it cannot be drank, and petrifies whatever is thrown into it. The second is Copia, which riches in twenty-fix degrees latitude, runs twenty leagues from cast to west, and forms a bay and harbour at its en trance into the Tea. The third is Guafco, which rises in twenty-eight degrees latitude, and likewise forms a bay and harbour. The fourth is the river Coquimbo, which rises in thirty degrees latitude, forms a noble bay and a port, with beautiful myrtles and other trees on the bank, that make a noble and pleasant grove. The fifth in Aconcagna, a large deep river that rises about thirty-three degrees latitude and runs through several fruitful valleys. The sixth is Mayo, riling about thirty-three and a half degrees latitude. It is so rapid that it admits no bridge but one made of cables: it enters the sea with so much force that its waters form an eddy, and are distinguished a great way. It is brackish, noted for excellent trouts, and its bank afford mutton of a curious relish. Ovalle gives an account of many remarkable fountains in this country, both-hot and cold, and good against many distempers. He says that there are some salt lakes which bring in a great profit to the owners, because their fisheries are more certain that those of the tea ; they furnish most part of the lenten fair to the inhabitants, and, in a hot season, abundance of salt.,He adds, that in the valley of Lamp, near St. Jago, there is an herb, about a foot high, resembling sweet basil, which in summer is covered with grains of salt like pearl, having a finer flavour than,any 't
any other salt. The coast, he says, produces shell. fish in greater quantities than any where else; as oysters, which are good eating, and afford fine pearls; chorus, another sort of shellfish, which also breeds pearl; tongues, which have two round Shells, the inside of which resembles mother of pearl. In short, the sea throws up shellfish in such quantities, upon some part of the coast, that ships may be loaded with them; and their fells are of such variety of colours and shapes, that our Euro. pean virtuosi might from hence have a curious col lection, whereas the Indians only burn them for chalk. There are other sorts of fish on these coast, omne of which they call sea-bears, others suns and moons, because they resemble these planets. These fish reduced into powder and drank in wine, are an infallible remedy against drunkenness, and frequently used for that end, creating an abhorrence of wine in those who drink it. Great quantities of amber are found on this coast, particularly the grey sort, which is the belt. They have all other sons of fil common to Europe, besides many peculiar o1 themselves.,BefEdes those birds which are known in Europe, there are famengoes, larger than turkies, their feathers of a white and scarlet colour, of which the natives make ornaments, and their legs are so long that they walk through lakes and ponds. The child bird, so called because it looks like a swathed child with its arms at liberty, is very good meat. Arises, so much valued for their feathers to make tufts, that formerly, they say, every feather upon their heads cor tv,wo rials. These birds are very rare. There are others, called gafcoilos, whose feathers are ge neatly used by soldiers. Voycas, from whose notes the Indians pretend to foretel death, sickness, or other misfortunes: the feathers on their breasts are of a deep scarlet colour, and the rest brown. Pit.,gucdas;
uuedas: their body is of the size of an almond: they feed upon flowers, and shine like polished gold mixed with-green: the males have a lively orange colour tuft, like fire, on their heads; and the tails of those birds are a foot long, and two inches broad. Concords, which are prodigiously large, and white as ermine, their skins are extreme soft and warm, and therefore used as gloves. Some of there birds have been known to measure ten feet with expanded wings. They have abundance ostriches, and va piety of hawks, in this country they had no cows, horses, sheep, hogs, houris cars, nor common dogs of any sort, goats, actes, or rabbits, till they were brought hither by the Spaniards but now all these are increased to a wonderful degree by the richness of the country and pasture; so that one cow frequently yields one hundred and fifty pounds of tallow. A horse was formerly sold for' one thousand crowns, but now they are so plenty that they send them yearly to Peru.,The most remarkable animals, not common with us, are their sheep, shaped like camels, though not so large. Their natives used them for ploughing and carriage before they had European cattle. Their upper-lips are slit, with which they spit at those who vex them, and wherever the spittle falls it causes a scab. Wild goats, very much resembling their Ihcep, but of a red clear colour, so very swift that they out-run horses, and are never to be tamed. They feed in great herds, and are hunted by dogs, 'which easily catch their young ones, that are ex collect meat. The flesh of the old ones, dried and smoked, is reckoned the bess of its kind. These creatures, especially the oldest, have bezoar stones in a bag under their belly. Our author says he brought one of these stones to Italy which weighed thirty-two ounces, and was as perfect an oval as if it,had
had been formed by a turner, He gave the Indian who found it seventy pieces of eight for itt heir most remarkable trees, besides what are common to Europe, are the cinnamon-tree, so called because the bark resembles the cinnamon. The guiac-tree, which grows in the Cordillera, and i; as hard and heavy as irons a decoction whereof is good against many diseases. The sandal-tree, very odoriferous, is a preservative against infectious dis. tempers, and therefore used by the priests when they visit the sick. The magnet, whose leaves are admirable against burnings. The fruit is like myr. the-berries, and of an excellent relish. The quell, of whose fruit they make a very sweet drink. lui. gan, the Spaniards call it made. It is of the shape and colour of pepper: it grows on a small tree, and makes an agreeable liquor, coveted by people of qua city. The myrtilla, which grows on the mountains from thirty-seven degrees latitude and upwards. Herrera says its fruit is a common food to the na times, not unlike a grape, and of this they make 2 wine that exceeds all other liquors. It is of a bright gold colour, will bear more water than any other wine, chears the heart, never offends the stomach, but increases appetite. The vinegar made of it is very fine. Their cyprus, cedar and oak-trees are extraordinary goo dour author from the continent proceeds to the islands of Chili. The first whereof are those of Juan Hernandez. The second are those of Chiloe, which lies about forty-three degrees latitude, and form an archipelago of forty islands. He says the nas ture of the climate here is such that it rains almoftall the year; so that only mais, or such other grain a require but little fun, can ripen here. The chic diet of the inhabitants is the root papas, which larger here than any where else. They have excels
lent shellfish, very good poultry and hogs, some beeves and sheep. The capital of this country is the city of Castro, which lies in the chief island, and is garrisoned lby the Spaniards. Here they have great flore of honey and wax, and some gold mines on the coast. Their chief manufacture is cloathing for the Indians; and they have vasa woods of cedar trees of a prodigious size, with the planks of which they drive a great trade to Chili and Peru. The islands of Clients lie in fatty-five degrees latitude, but are of little use, because of the excessive rains which drown the oil.,The Fine island, which lies almost in the' fie latitude with Val Paradise and St. Jago, has a safe harbour for ships, where they may ride in twenty or thirty fathom water. The Spaniards say it is a very beautiful island, abounding with trees, wild boars, and other game, affording excellent water and plenty of fish the north side of the island of Mocha is plain and low, but the south side rocky. The Dutch under Spilberg found a very generous reception from its natives, who furnished them with plenty of provisions, in exchange for cloaths, axes, A&c. The island of South Maria is thirteen leagues south-west from the city of Conception, and three from Franco. It is very fruitful and temperate, lies in about thirty-seven degrees latitude, and is well inhabited. The islands of Pedro Sarmiento, so called because he discovered them when in pursuit of Sir Francis Drake, are about eighty in number, and lie in about fifty degrees latitude: so that we suppose them to be those now called the Duke of York's islands, which lie a litle to the northward of the Streights of Magellan.,Cuio, the third quarter of Chili, which lies on the other side of the Cordillera, towards the east,,CL. V!I. N isis
divided into several provinces, and quite differs temperature from Chili. The summer here is excessive hot, and the inhabitants are so annoyed with bugs. and muskets that they lie abroad in their gardens and yards. They have almost perpetual thunder and lightning, and are much infested with poisonous insects. These are the bad qualities of the country; to compensate which, the soil, if possible, exceeds that of Chili in fruitfulness: the crops are richer, the fruits larger and of better tarte, because of the greater heats. They have store of corn, wine, flesh, and all the fruits, roots and herbs of Europe, with large plantations of olives and almonds. The cold is not so sharp in winter as that of Chili, and the air much clearer, so that the season is then very temperate. They have great quantities of large excellent trouts, and other river fish. Of the fruit algoraba they make a bread so sweet that fran. gers cannot eat it. They supply Tucuman and Paraguay with figs, pomegranates, apples, dried peaches, grapes, and excellent wine and oil. Ovalle says, that in his time there were rich mines of gold and silver discovered there, which were reckoned to be better than those of Potofi; and that it had all necessaries for life in as great abundance as in any other country, and was in general very healthful.,CHAP,
CHAP. XIV. che concert Ijqlps are hospitably entertained by tee go-,vernLor and inhabitants of Guam; the soil, procul, tc. of that island described ; the Ala.rquis entangled by a waterspouts ; they arrive at Bont:n ija,:d; they are received in a friendly manner by the Xing and hi; court; Xh.s majesty intends to impose u: on them, lut icnnwt ; the unkind behaviour of ,he go - cri or o' Batavia to cur cruisers; the) a rise at I'. Gie of Good cIIpe ; convoyed home, anchorite., the owns ; cnc/ufon. January the I6th, on rummaging the Bachelor there was on board her such a timely supply of bread, that the was able to afford to the Duke and Duchess each one thousand pounds weight, and to the Marquis five hundred; in return for which assistance, the received two casks of flower, one of beef, and one of pork. On the 28th the Steward misled some pork, and the thief being discovered he was tied to the main-peers, where every man upon the watch gave him a stroke with a cat of nine tails. He would not have been so severely pu filled, but that there was an absolute necessity for it at this time, there not being more than one or two and thirty days provision on board february the Sith, to keep the men in spirits, their allowance was encreased, for that day, with half a pound of bread or flower to every Press; and the captain having put them on drawing.valentines, afterwards allowed them to toast their mistresses healths in a can of punch. On the I th, a piece of captains Rogers's jaw-bone, which had lodged in his throat ever since he had been wounded, was hap-,N 2 pity
pity extracted ; in consequence whereof he was much easier than before.,Miarch the both they made the islands of Servant and Guam, and came to anchor near the latter in twelve fathom water, having been all day viewed by different prows which passed by them with prodigy. vous celerity, but would not be induced by any means to come on board. As there was a necessity, and that an absolute one, for procuring a fiefs simply of provisions here to prevent their starving ; it was determined, if possible, to get some people off the island on board, to detain as hostages, in case the governour should prove averse to granting then affiance. They accordingly laid hold of two Spa. aids, who hailed them and came on board, iuu- pfoing the Buccaneers from their answer to belong to New Spain. One of these was detained by way of hostage, while the other was sent a-shore with two linguists carrying a letter to the governor of the place, implying, That all they demanded was liberty to deal in a peaceable manner for provisions and refreshments, for which they would not only pay immediately, but demean themselves in every other respect like friends ; and threatning, in case of refusal, to ad openly as enemies ; a proceeding which they would rather avoid, though confidents succession the morning of the i with the pinnace was lent a-fore with a flag of truce, to the crew of which the natives behaved with great cordiality, promising a plentiful supply of provisions in case of the gower nos's permission, a grant whereof appeared .bout noon in a letter brought on board by the two linguist and three Spanish gentlemen, who gave fresh assurances of the governor's readiness to do every thing in his power to serve them. A fuitablent;inCe to which polite declaration was straightway dispatched
patched to his excellency, with the thanks of the crews of the four ships, signed bs all the captains.,On the 3th every flip was supplied with limes, oranges, cocoa-nuts, and other refreshments, bodies on bullock a-piece; and an entertainment was pro vide on board the Bachelor for several of the Spanish gentry, at which the office's of all the vessels were present, captain Totters not excepted, though he was hoisted up and down in a chairmen the i6th they went a-shore, by invitation, to the governor's house, where they were received by two hundred men in arms, and all the principal people of the island, being entertained with sixty different dishes, and at their departures presenting his excellency with two negroes in handsome liveries, twenty yards of fcarkt cloth-ifrge, and six pieces of fine czm!nrick.,On the i7hb they got in their dividend of provision being sixty hogs, ninety-nine fowls, twenty four bushels of Indian corn, fourteen bags of rice, forty four baskets of yams, and eight hundred co coa nuts. The next day they got rome live but lean carte; and having acknowledged the governor kindness in writing, besides paying every body very handsomely fer whatever they had bought, they got under sail on the 21it: and we shall leave them getting clear of this island, to give a short descriptio n of the soil, products, and firuation.,The island of Guam is about forty leagues round: the anchoring-place is on the we side, and about the middle there is a large cove, with several houses built after the Spanish table, with-accommodations ftr the Acapulco flip, the settlement being made here on purpose for that flip to recruit at in her way to Manila. There are about three hundred Spaniards on this and the neighbouring islands, and moi of the natives are converts to their religious principles. Here were at this time eight fathers, fix,N3 of
of whom taught school, besides performing their offices as clergymen. They had schools also taught by Mulattoes and Indians, who had learned the Spanish language, which is understood by most of the natives. There is a range of islands from hence to Japan, among which are several that abound with gold the island of Guam itself produces fine oran ages, lemons, citrons, musk, and water-melons, which were originally brought here by the Spans. arcs. Oranges trees thrive here very well. The island is full of hills, dales, and firearms of good water. They have plenty of cattle, but small, poor, and generally white. The indigo pont crows wild in such abundance, that, were they in. duflricus, an had coppers to b; il it up, they might havegoreat quantities of that commodity ; but being lb remote, and out of the way of trade, they make no safe of it: nor do they indeed improve any thing but what contributes to their present subsistance; having that, they are easy. Money is of so little use, and so scarce among them, that they could not raie one thousand collars to purchase commodities from captain Rogers, which they would otherwise ladirv have done. They have about two hundred soldiers, who re ces' e their pay fr rn manila by a ma fal hip once a year. This h ip brings them cloaths, sugar, rice,I.n' icuor for :.hic'i, flie carries back most of the money a ain. This has made them of late sow rice in their \aievs, and make other improvement. 'Ite abounds wvidh hogs, which are the best pork in the world, brc.! e they feed altogether on cocoa n.;s a:! bread-fr it, w which are plentiful here; and :ere nc.t the Spaniards slothful, they might have rnofi necessaries of their own growth for the countenance of ife Their Lrcad-fruit is the most re markable thing on the island. It is as large alcoran CEs,
oranges, resembles them much, and when ripe is three times as large; it grows in many other places near the equinox in the Leaf-Indies. The leaves are almost as large as those of fig, something like them, but of a brown colour the wind blows constantly at south-east here, except during the westerly monsoons, which last from the middle of June to the middle of AugufR.,The governor lives on the north side of the island, where there is a small village and a convent, being the chief habitation of the Spaniards. ' They marry with the natives, and had not now above four Spa nil women on the island the Indians are tall and wrong, of a dark olive colour, go all naked, except a clout about their posteriors, and the women have little petticoats. The men are dextrous at flinging lumps of clay, of an oval tÂ£jrm, burned as hard as marble; and they arc Inch good marksmen, that the Spaniards say they seldom miss hitting any mark; and throw with such force as to kill a man at a considerable distance. They have no other weapons, but a slick or lance made of the heaviest wood in the island the governor presented captain Rogers with one of their flying prows, which the Spaniards said wv.:lJ run twenty leagues per hour; and captain R(gz; rs verily believes, by what he saw, they may ru:; wventy miles, or more, in that space of time; sir when they viewed the English lips, they paled b, ther like a bird that was flvir!g.,These prows are about thirty feet long, not above two broad, and abn)ut three deep; they have but One real, which finds in the middle, with a mat sail, made in the form of a flip's mizzen : the yard is flung in the middle, and a man sits at each end with a paddle to fleer her; so that when they go about, they do not turn the boat to bring the wind on the oiler side, but only change the sail; so that then 4 jack
jack and sail are used alike; and the boat's heal and stern are the same, only they change them a occasion requires to fail either way; for they are ft very narrow that they could not bear any sail, were it not for booms that run out from the windward side, fattened to a large log shaped like a boat, and near half as long, which is fattened contiguous to the beat. On there booms a stage is made above the water, on a level with the side of the boat upon v which they carry goods or passengers. These small vessels sometimes overset, if the wind'happens to press strongly on the contrary side to the outlawed, or log just now mentioned april the sith, being in twenty degrees north latitude, or thereabouts, they came so near twice vwaer-fnouets that one of them was near breaking, over the .Marquis, but w-as happily dispersed bra couple of lucky slots from the Duchess. On the 23d the Marquis and tie Batchelor were damaged in their rigging by a violent storm which had lated four or five days, and they both being but indifferent tailors were a dead weight upon the voyage, the fa. tissues whereof encreased to the Duke's crew by their being obliged constantly to ply at the pump, on account of a leak on board, which could not as yet be flopped.,Having coasted for several days along the high lands of New (guinea, with several islands in sight, they made Bourbon on the 25th of May; for which island the Duke and Duchess each hoisted out her pinnace, which soon returned with plenty of cocoa note, and reported that the inhabitants, who spoke the 'malayan language, were very civil and hospitable. At this true the vessels sought in vain for proper ground wherein to anchor, for altho' they run their bowsprit almost ashore they could find none. In the mean time several canoes brought fowls, Indiancorn, cocoa-nuts, pumpkins, &c. which they trucked,with
with the sailors; romeos whom Rogers sent with the yawl and pinnace to land, where they were received by the king and his nobility in a very courteous manner, and promised a sufficient supply of all ne' necessaries. Not only his majesty's attendants, but hee himself, were barefooted and naked, having only a slight covering wrapped round the middle, which alio concealed their posteriors. After cruising round the head lands, and sounding for three or four days, they at length got anchoring in one hundred 2nd thirty fathom water, deepening to forty, south latitude five degrees forty-one minutes and here both the Duke and Duchess came to their moorings. The Duke's boat soon after returned with rome Ma layans in a canoe, who had been prevailed upon to come by presents : but these whereof no use, there not bciln any on board either of the ships who could discourse with them; and captain Dover, who had a linguist, refused to lend him, though upon To necessary an occasion; neither would those people be pre wailed upon to go on board the Batchelor, the being in dancer of running on the shoals: however, at quitting the Duke, they pointed to the land which lay northward, calling it Botoo.,Captain )ampler said he had formerly been thro' the Streights of Bouton ; and, in the accounts this voyage, mentions a town to the south of them where a king resided; but it appeared at this time that he knew nothing relative to there matters but the story. 'she shore near the town, about six leagues to the northward, seemed very proper to refit upon; and captain Rogers would have carried the Duke thither, in order to have flopped her leaks, but he found the did not marne more water than one pump freed her of, and besides time was not to be loft.,A'lay the 29th, it was determined to send captain Dampier, attended by Mr. Vanbrugh, Mr. Concisely, and the linguist, by way of deputation, to the king,,N 5 defying
desiring a supply of refreshments, and proffering very sufficient payment. These gentlemen were re civet by him very courteously, and he appeared well satisfied with the samples which they shewed him of such goods as they chore to give in barter, and was also highly pleased with a bilfop's mitre, which was sent him as a present. The inhabitants began now to flock bn board fash enough, with co coa, fowls, corn, and every sort of refreshment. June the first they supplied themselves with wood and water, and the pinnace returned from the town but with a blind account of the proceedings of the officers; presently after captain Dampier came aboard with a small quantity of provisions, by way of present to the commanders captain Rogers did not approve of the delays made by the king with respect to the provisions, a large quantity of which he had amassed, and wanted to dispose of at a very exorbitant rate, detaining Mr. Vanbrugh till his demands were complied with; however he was obliged to give him up, otherwise captain Rogers would have imprisoned his linguist, who was a Portuguese, and of such use to his ma eftiy, in all commercial matters, that he could not possibly spare him. Mr. Vanbrugh and he parted 'very good friends, but could not prevail with him to f:.iriÂ£n a pilot to conduct them through the Streights at any rate: as to his keeping up the price of pro visions, they were the less uneasy on that score, hav ing been furnished with as much as they should want, fur at least three weeks before hand, by the country people during their being on this island, a dangerous mutiny, which had spread from the Duke to the Duchess, and infected several of the officers, was happily discovered, otherwise it might have ruined the whole voyage ; and the ring-leaders being laid in irons, were divided on board the different nhips.,9 On
On the 8th of June they weighed anchor and the following day came up with a Dutch vessel bound for Maccaffarts, a Dutch settlement on the south part of Celebes. The master, who was a Malayan pro .mired not only to pilot them through the Streights, but even to Batavia, for a small gratuity, provided it was kept secret from the Dutch; aRd the captain readily consented to grant all his demands, this be ing a very happy incident in their favour, as they were thereby enabled to avoid the Brill, the Bunker, and other shoals very dangerous to shipping the shunning of which properly is belt known to the Holland traders. On the Isti they saw a number of fishing-boats, which all kept aloof, the high land of Samara, on the coast of Java, bearing distant from them five leagues west, and by south. On the 17th they hailed a Dutch flip of six hundred tons and fifty guns, which confirmed to them the death of prince George of Denmark, and the continuance of the wars in Europe. On the doth they entered the road of Batavia, and came to anchor in six or seven fathom water, among upwards of thirty sail of ships. On the 22d the commanders waited on the governor, who having examined and approved of their commissions as private ships of war, promised to yield them all the friendly assistance possible; but he was not over eat in keeping his word, for it was a great while before they could get a vessel to circe upon, which at last they obtained; and on the 23d of July they hove down upon Horn Island': provisions were disposed of to them at an extravagant dear rate, and when an audience of the governour was wanted, which was on many occasions necessary, it was not obtained without much dish. cult, such as bribing the guards, or his secretary; nor was it always that this method prevailed: and ve cannot help observing, that it has been almost always the case at the Dutch settlements, where then 6 - chief
chief people generally receive our (hips with a face o friendship while underhand they treat them like real enemies.,As Horn Island was a very inconvenient place whereat to careen, the commanders to no purpose petitioned the governor for leave to perform that V work at Unrest, the careening place of the Dutch ships, for this was a favour they could by no means t;b2ain, nor vet the assistance of Dutch carpenters, so that they were obliged to make use of eight or ten Malayan caulkers.,As a completion of these oppressive measures, the slander, or chief acting officer at the custom-house, for the management of the affairs of foreigners, who was related to the governor, and manifested no fr;indiip to our voyagers declared, that in case any Dutchman should purchase the Marquis, which (hip it ws. agreed to part with, he should be obliged to burn or rip her up; adding. thar this was an un Alterable resolution of the governor and council: so that it was necessary to dispose of her to the first English bidder, which was captain John Open, of the Oily frigate, from London, who purchased her fr five hundred and seventy-five Dutch dollars; and Tie was certainly a very great bargain.,C.p:ain Rogers recovered his health very slowly at Batavia, where during his stay, a large musket. ball. ;- which the surgeon hitherto had mistaken for a piece of his broken jaw, was cut out of his cheek, and several splinters were extracted from his foot and hee : several of the men were carried off by fluxes, which drinking the waters of the island is apt to give; however, they corrected its ill qualities with plenty of arrack and sugar, the former being eight pence per gallon, the latter one penny per pound october-he eth, having flocked themfelveswith prov shots, r ,ntd the ships with their fu I complement and the officers and men being'furnilhed with,fucb
such necessaries as they most needed, for which a full committee of the three ships had ordered them sufficient money, they set sail for the Cape of Good Hope, taking the opportunity of the first. land breeze. October the 17th, having wooded and wa tered at Java Head, within Prince's Island, they proceeded on their voyage, and on the 28th of De member came to anchor in the Cape harbour, fa luting the Dutch fort with nine guns, which re turned them a compliment of seven. Here they waited for a convoy of the Dutch fleet to Europe till the beginning of April, tho' captain Rogers strongly opposed this delay, judging it better for one or both ships to run over to Brazil, there to dispose of their most perishable commodities, and afterwards to make for Bristol thro' the north channel; but the majo city of the committee carried it against him: and tho' th-re was a very troublesome leak on board the Duke, captain Courtney, and moi of the other officers, denied their content to her being careened, without which it was scarcely possible to come at the leak; so that Rogers was forced to trust himself at sea in a very indifferent condition. April the 5'h, the Dutch admiral hoisted a blue flag, and loosened his fore top sail, as a signal to unmoor; and falling down to Penguin Island, lay by for all the ships. The day following, the fleet, consisting of sixteen Dutch and nine English ships, weighed from Penguin island with a fresh breeze at south southeast. Captain Rogers informs us that during he whole run of the voy-ge from the Cape to Holland the mos exact discipline was observed by the keep, and the greatest respect paid to the Dutch ad lira, tho' he commanded only a company's trad. ig ship. Rogers does not tell us this gentleman's lame, but says that, besides his being a man of ca city, he had great good nature, and was respects to the English who failed in his company, often,enter-
entertaining the commanders on board his (hip, and permitting the Batchelor's prize, as being an heavy sailor, often to be a-head of the fleet in the night, that she might not lose way. July the 23d they all arrived in the Sexes, whereat the Dutch fired all their guns, and the English saluted the commodore and flag with several rounds of cannon.,On the 24th, after dinner, captain Rogers went up to Amsterdam, where he bought up some prove. sons for the flip; and the gift of August they dis. charged the men they had shipped at Batavia and the Cape. At Amsterdam they were met by one Mr. College, and some others of their owners, who made them draw up an abstract of their voyage, and swear to it before a public notary, left the Eat India company should pretend they infringed upon their rights in touching at any of their fettlemen,,,Matters being thus adjusted, they weighed anchor from the Sexes on the 22d of September, and ol the gift of October came to their Moorings in th Downs, where' they were visited by some of their owners; and on the x4th they came up as sara? Eris, where they began to unlade their cargoes, in hope soon to enjoy the comforts of ease in Old Eng land, as the fruit of so perilous and well-conduct a voyage.
lrolyL,F2,~3LC I ~ . . eo ~,A~~~~~4
An ACCOUNT of the VOYAGE round the WORLD, made in the Years i740, 4I, 42, 43, and 44, by GEORGE, now LORD ANSON.,C H A P. t Mr. /otn made commodore sofa small squadron ; sails from St. Helens; arrives at Asadera'; a Jor-t de friction of that island; a Spanish fleet Set to the Iyeft Indies to oppose him ; its melancholy fate; the bravery of the Indian Orellana and his unhappy sole lowers.,U R design in compiling these voyages being to throw the materially connected sacs relative to each, into the most concise and entertaining order, it would be foreign to the purpose, as well as inconsistent with the space which we have here allowed ourselves, to detain the reader with an ac count of the various delays Mr. Anson met with from several quarters, after his being named as com mander in chief of a secret expedition, in the year 1739 to the loth of August 1740, when he failed, in company with several men of war and many out ward bound merchantmen, from Spithead to St. Helens. Here he waited more than forty days for a wind, and at length weighed anchor on the i8th of'September; and though it still continued westerly consequently unfavourably, he cleared the Channel in four days.,Mr. Anson's squadron consisted of five ships, viz. the Centurion, of sixty guns and four hundred men, on board which was the commodore himself, the,Gloucester,
Gloucester, Richard Norris commander, carrying fifty guns and three hundred men; the Severn, con handed by the honourable Edward Legs, having! the same complement of men and guns; the Pears captain Matthew Mitchel, with forty guns and rtw hundred and fifty men; the Wager, captain Kidd, with twenty-eight guns and one hundred and sixth men; and the Trial sloop, eight guns and one hun. died men, under command-os the honourable george Murray; and two victuallers the Anna and Industry, pinks; the latter of which having fulfilled her char ter-party was unlade at sea, on the I6th of No. member, and her cargo divided among the other vessels. She was bound to Barbadoes; in return from which island to Great Britain with a valuable lading, The was taken by the Spaniards.,On board this squadron, which was destined to cruize upon the Spaniards in the South Seas, it had first been proposed to embark three independant companies, of one hundred men each, and colonel Bland, with his own regiment, as commanders chief of the land officers; but how this appointment came to dwindle into four hundred and seventy, in. valid, draughted from Chelsea, and commanded by lieutenant-colonel Cracherode, is too nice a matter for us to investigate; let it suffice that we observe most of them were old and infirm, much fitter for the hospital from whence it was their misfortune to be selected, than for an expedition to surmount the evident perils of which required youth, strength, and sound constitution. September the 29th, having parted in their appointed latitudes, the different vessels, with convoying which he had been clogged, Mr. Anson made the best cf his way for Madera, in the road of which island he came to anchor, floor ber the 25th, in forty fathom water, the Brazen head bearing from him east and by earl, and the great church north-east.,'eTt
The climate of Madera is extremely healthful, temperate and pleasant. It lies in north latitude thirty-two degrees seventeen minutes, running due east and west, being a continued ridge of very high land, the southern declivity whereof is beautifully in dispersed with country seats b-longing to merchants, and cover d with vineyards, the produce of which is a wine in universal estimation, as well for its fine flavour as its many good qualities.,Fonchiaie is the only town on this island: it is seated on the south part of it, at the bottom of a large bay, and is defended by a high wall and a battery of cannon, betides a fortified castle (landing on the Loo, a rock tiring above the water not far from shore. The landing-place being a stony beach over w.h.ch the Surf almost perpetually lathes with great: violence, the commodore, not caring to venture his own, made use of Portuguese boats to bring water, provisions, and other necessities, on board his little fleet. Here he learned from the governor that seven or eight sips, supposed to be enemies, had passed by to the westward a few days before his arrival; of which squadron he could obtain no farther intelligence, tho' he dispatched an officer in a clean sloop eight leagues to the westward to look after them, who returned without having seen them,' here was great reason to suspect that these ships, apprized of Mr. Anson's designs, were dispatched to the Spanish settlements, to prepare them for his re caption; and that there suspicions were but too well ground, appeared from the people of Panama, long before his arrival in those seas, being able to describe both his strength and destination; and the Spanifh commodore having so exactly imitated Mr. Anson's broad pendant, that the captain of the Pearl gave into the decoy, without perceiving his mistake 'il within gun-shot.,Before
Before we proceed in our review of Mr. Anson's progress after he left Madera, a short account of the melancholy catastrophe of these Spanifi ships may not prove perhaps disagreeable to the majority of our readers; the winds and waves having seemed to unite in their overthrow, without the assistance of any other enemy this squadron, consisting of five ships, viz. the Asia. of sixty-fix guns and seven hundred men, on board whereof sailed the admiral Don Joseph Pi. varro: the Guipofcoa, of seventy-four guns and seven hundred men; the Hermon, of fifty-four guns and five hundred men; the Efperanza, of fifty guns and four hundred and fifty men; the St. Erfevan, of forty guns and three hundred men ; and a tender, mounting twenty guns, having on board their full complement of sailors and marines, be. sides an old regiment of foot to reinforce the garrisons in the South Seas, arrived in the bay of Maldon nato in the river Plate, on the 26th of October, in tending there to take in provisions, haying flocked themselves in Old Spain with barely a four months fuppnIv: yet ,with this final!, and aimoff exhausted, store, did he again put to Tea, and endeavour to double Cape Horn, upon being apprized privately of the English squadron's arrival at St. Catherine's; his intention being, if possible, to get into the South Seas fir'i. ' Many advantages were allowed to the common men to inspire them to do their duty well, and enable them to bear the fatigues and perils that openly threatened them in an undertaking so hazard vous, precipitate, and we may even say imprudent, as the provisions which were expected, arrived from Buenos Acres at Mvlaldonado the day after he weighed anchor, and the want of them encreased the calamities he afterwards underwent, to an incredible cd r ce. The last day of February the Gui-,pofcoa,
pofcoa,,the Hermon, and the Efperanza were fe parted from the rest of the fleet, and they were all forced to bear away for the river Plate, by a prodigious storm at north-west, which, in spite of their utmost efforts, drove them to the eastward the calamities they suffered are almost incredible; a rat on board the Asia sold for four dollars, and one of the sailors endured to lie four days in the same hammock with the dead corpse of his brother that he might receive his allowance, while a conspiracy was set on foot by the marines, to murder all the (officers and tailors, from no other motive but that of engrossing to themselves the flip's provisions. This design was indeed happily discovered, and the number of craving mouths lessened by the deaths of the ringleaders of it: besides which commotion, lb much was their distress encreased by sickness and fatigue, that when this vessel came to anchor at Monte Medio, in the river Plate, which place (he did not reach till the middle of May, the had lost more than half her crew. The fate of the Eftsvan was as bad; that of the Efperanza was still worse; sprout of a crew offourhundred men only fifty-eight survived, and the whole regiment of foot, fifty men excepted, perished. As for the Guipofcoa, after a long time driving on the-surface of the water, as a meer wreck, without either masts or rigging, the butt ends of her planks started, her bolts drawn, her seams all open, and only kept together by six turns of cable-rope tightened round her, the fur '.ivinr crew, to the number of four hundred, run her ashore at Rio de Paths, on the coast of Brazilee, ten leagues to the southward of St. Catherine, ashore, ashore, being the general cry the mo ment they came near land, where she soon sunk With all her rich goods and furniture. As for i: iHermiona, neither the, nor any of the hands, i;'- been since heard of, so that it is reasonably.,supposed
supposed the perished at sea. As for the twenty gun tender, (he had been broken up before they set out from Ma!donado.,The series of Pizarro's evils were not yet at an end; for in the year I745, coming over land from Chili to Buenos Ayres, with one of his officers who had commanded the Guipofcoa, they found the that. tered Asia lying till at wont Medio, with which, having refitted her in the hest manner possible, they thought to proceed to Europe; but not having bvrse one hundred of their old hands to navigate he, they supplied the want by pressing several of the inhabitants of DBuens Are;; and moreover putting or board her a few English prisoners, several Port. geese fm giles, 2nd sore of the country indians, among who w were Orleans, and ten <f his follsT. er, HS w.s chi es J2 z tie, whi) hied tIr t-ee- ,great du urbacr t the peace of Buenos Are, ; and tlefehad not long before been surprized and made prisoners by a party of Spaanrfl horse with thes motley cre.v they set sail about the be ginning of November, and the officers shewed very little policy, as well as small ifhre of commiseration, in their behaviour to the prisoners, treating them all, English as well as Indian, with great barbarity; .hile Orellana, tho' to appearance patient in all his ful-string, together with his ?people, meditated a fe vere revenge upon his oppressors: he endeavoured to cultivate an intimacy with such of the Enhlth as fake Spa;'ilh, a language iii which he was well versed ; and it is not unlikely but he would hare disclosed his scheme to (hem, knowing them to bk enemies to the Spaniards as well as himself, had he found them of inclinations equally vindictive; but being disappointed in this expectation, he proceeded on! v wth his ten faithful followers, on whose cou ruse and reFolu: ion he entirely relied ; and the fol lOu'in accident precipitated his deli-n.,Oreilana
Orellana having one day refused to go aloft, a talk to which he was quite unequal, was therefore by one of the officers,. remarkable for nothing so much as his brutality, knocked down, and beaten in such a violent manner that he lay bleeding upon deck for more than two hours, so stupefied with his wounds that he was scarcely able to fur ; wherefore, about nine in the evening, a day or two after this ill usage, which sharpened his desire of revenge, when the principal officers were enjoying the cool air on the quarter-deck, the fore-castle was manned with only the customary watch, and the walls was filled with hive cattle, he, together with his followers, came upon the quarter-deck, having armed them selves with (harp Dutch knives, which, being used at meals on board, were easily procured, and with slings made of thongs of ram hides, to the ends whereof were fastened the double headed shot of the finally quarter-deck guns. As they approached the great cabin door, being ordered by the boatswain, not Without a severe reprimand for their encroachment, to withdraw, four of them drew off on each fide towards the gangway, and the other six, with their chief, asserted to retire slowly; instead whereof, as soon as Orellana saw the gangways possessed by his detached parties, he set up the war cry, a sound perhaps the most terrifying that ever was heard, by clapping his hand hollow to his mouth; upon which they all drew their knives, and brandished their slings so successfully, that they laid at leaf twenty Spaniards dead at their feet, and disabled above twenty more. The confusion that this massacre spread among the flip's crew is not to be described; most of the prin cipal officers in the beginning pushed into the great cabin, where they extinguished the highland barri coed the door, while some threw themselves into the waste among the cattle ; numbers hid themfles,in
in the shrouds, and many who shrove to gain.the gangways fell by the knives of the four Indians who guarded them. Orellana having entirely cleared the quarter-deck, broken open the chest of arms, which had been removed thither a few days before on a slight suspicion of mutiny, but to his great dis. appointment found nothing but fire-arms; had he had the pretence of mind to have removed there, he would have come at the cutlasses of which he was in search, wherewith he intended to have forced the great cabin, for the cutla's is a weapon in the use of which the Indians are well skilled.,In the mean time Pizarro and his officers began to come at a true knowledge of the Fate of affairs, by conversing with each other through the port-holes and windows; and understanding the English, whom they had much feared, were not concerned in the mutiny, resolved to attack the Indians before an, other of the malcontents should recover their surprize and join them; for which purpose, ammunition being lowered to them-in a bucket from the powder-room, they loaded their pistols, having no other arms, and then venturing to set the cabin dnr a little open, they fired among the Indians, and Mlin:dinuetta, who had commanded the Guipolcoa, having the good fortune to shoot Orellana dead on the spot, his companions, disdaining to survive their gallant chief, leaped instantly overboard, andover; man of them perished in the tea thus, after the vcfeel had been more than two hours in possession of this brave Indian, did Pizarro once again regain the command of it, and arrive fse'v therewith on the coast of Alicia, in l74.6, at ter having been absent from Europe near five years; and by his assiduity in watching the motions of Mr. Anson, having occasioned the destruction of four fine ships of war and a tender, betides curtailing the naval power of Spain of more than three thousand,ab!e
able hands; a loss not easily to be repaired, and which it is plain would have sufficiently atoned for the equipment of Mr. Anson's squadron, independent of every other advantage, if we reflet upon the weakness of the marine power of Spain at that time.,C H A P. II. The squadron arrives at the island of St. Catherine ;the conduit of the governor Jet forth ; that island described, and a Short review of Brazileeee; they pro need to Port St. Julian; that port and the country described; Mr. Anson's vas dstsreles in doubling Cape Horn; he mates the island of yuan Ser nandes.,T the time that we divert our attention to the fate of the Spanish squadron, commanded by Don Joseph Pizarro, we left Mr. Anson-it an cor in the road of Madera, from which place he departed on the 3d of November, intending for St. Jago, one of the Cape de Verd islands; but this re solution he altered the next day, on account of the advancement of the season, and steered for St. Ca there's, an island on the coast of Brazileeee; the land whereof, extending from west to west south-west, and appearing high and mountainous about Seventeen leagues distant, they discovered on the 16th of De member, and on the 18th dropped anchor in twelve fathom water, muddy ground; the north-west point of the island bearing south south-welt. To pre vent the confusion which the arrival of this squadron seemed to create, by the scars firing their guns and hoisting their colours, the commodore dispatched an officer to compliment the governor, and desire a pilot to bring him into the road; a request that,was
was immediately complied with very civilly; and on Sunday the 21ft they were brought up pall the castle of Sana Cruize, which they saluted with eleven guns, and had an equal compliment returned them this hand has been celebrated by other navis. gators for the wholesomeness of the air, the plenty of refreshments which it yields, and the hospitality of the natives; the dire: contrary of all which assertions NMr. Anson experienced to be true. That gentleman's first care, on his arrival here, was to or der all the sick athoie into tents pitched purposely for their reception: their number amounted to eighty on board the Centurion, nor were the infirm on boa d the other hips proportionably less : yet the land air vias of so very little advantage to them that before they left the place the aforementioned vessel buried twenty-eight of her hands, and carried away ninety six in a very weak diseased condition, their principal disorder being creatures, which they had contracted in their run from Madera, occasioned perhaps by the warmth of the climate, and the offensive semel, that must consequentially reign among Such a number of men. The proportionable loss of the other ships did not fll very short of that of the Centurion.,They next proceeded to cleanse each-efiel tho roughly, by flowing her decks and washing them well with vinegar; after which operation they ex. mined and paid her bottom, and likewise secured her masts and rigging, the better to prepare her fur a voyage round Cape Horn, the dangers of which were so evident to the commodore, that he ap pointed the different places of rendezvous, the first whereof was to be Port St. Julian, where they were to be stationed for ten days, and take in salt; the second, the island Nostra Senora del Secoro, where they were to ply off and on from five to twelve leagues distant, till their wood and water was con fumed i and then they were to proceed to Juan Ser-ni, ndej
nantes to take in a free .supply; and there, if they should chance to hear nothing of their commodore, he ordered that the senior officer should take upon him the principal command, giving him, Mr. An son, up for lost; and having cruised as long in those seas as he could find a subsistence, he was to make the best of his way to Macao, and from thence french over to England with all possible expedite tion.,They set sail from this island January the 18th, having taken in their wood and water with a sufficient quantity of fresh provisions, for which the governor Don Jose Sylva de Paz took care they should pay extravagantly dear; nor was this the worst part of his conduct; for it was through his means that intelligence of the strength of Mr. An son's squadron was so well known at Buenos Ayres; and a person of less prudence than Mr. Anson al ways manifested, would have come to an open breach with him, as many parts of his behaviour ,were calculated entirely for that end: and if he did not succeed therein, we must attribute it to the commodore's preferring the public good to the gratification of private animosity. Nor need we be surprized that this gentleman, though a man of quality, and a brigadier in the army, behaved him self in this care so very badly, when we consider that he carried on a smuggling trade with the neigh pouring Spaniards, exchanging gold for silver, whereby the kings of Spain and Portugal were both defrauded of their fifths; and had any of the vessels engaged in this illegal commerce, fallen into the hands of the commodore, his private dealings had inevitably been discovered; for which reason it is plain he could be no friend to the English squadron the island of St. Catherine lies close to the con tient of Brazilee, between twenty. seven and twenty-vol, VI , 0 eight
eight degrees south latitude: it is a high land, about nine leagues long and two broad: the soil over-run with wood, and so entangled with thorns, briar, and underwood, as to be almost impenetrable, Here are plenty of pine-apples, lemons, oranges, citron, peaches, grapes, apricots, and plantains; and the air is odoriferous perfumed by the vas quantities of aromatic trees and shrubs, of a spontaneous growth, which are seen on every hand to flourish. Onions and potatoes thrive here well, and are of great use to Shipping; but not much can be said in praise of the black cattle, which are small, somewhat like buffaloes in shape, but of an india. ferment taste, owing perhaps to their feeding chiefly on wild calabashes; nor are the pheasants of St. Catherine over good; but then the fish, which abounds on every side of the island, is excellent; nor is the flesh of its parrots and monkeys to be de spied. The water of this island, like that of the Thames, is well calculated for keeping at sea; having, after being casket up a day or two, a green scum upon its surface, which soon after subsides, and finking to the bottom leaves the water clear and very sweet. There is good anchorage and conveniency for wood and water on the continent side, at a place, called by the French, Bon Sort. But Mr. Anson found a good birth, with store of wood and water, &c. at a plantation on the opposite side. It must be obvious to the slightest consideration, that the climate cannot be very healthful, the free circulation of the air being prevented by the surrounding hills, and the thick woods on every side, which are cleared in very few places for plantations: moreover, the constant circulation of vapour, which is very great, covers the whole country every morning with a thick fog, till it is either dissipated by the sea breeze or meridian heat of the fun. Hence comes it that the place is so close and humid as to occasion fever,fever
fevers and very violent fluxes; besides which disadvantages the swarms of mulattoes and sand-flies, the latter of which are scarcely discernible, and bite like bugs, render this island a very disagreeable ha bitation.,St. Catherine's was, till within there few years, a retreat for the outlaws of Brazileeeeee, who lived here very much at ease under the care of a sort of a cap tain, who in some measure acknowledged the Portuguese jurisdiction. In this happy asylum they for got the use of money, having plenty of almost every thing needful within themselves, cloaths excepted, wherewith they were supplied by such ships as touch ed here, which in return they stored with provisions. However, things here wear now a different aspect: the governor no longer is seen to traverse the island barefooted, with such a garment thrown over him as manifest its being made for use and not for show, while a naked, but contented, banditti follow at his heels: his appearance now is splendid, but he has a garrison of ragged soldiers under his command. The occasion of this alteration is, that great riches are thought to be intermixed with the sands of the neighbouring rivers, and that the harbour before mentioned is the most capacious and secure upon the coast; so that it is not impossible but that it may, in time, become one of the nioft confider able settlements in South America.,Whoever considers, that it is not much more than forty years, since Brazileeeeee was discovered to possess those quantities of treasure, which have so enriched the crown of Portugal, will not be in the least surprized should they find this expectation verified Through the whole country of Brazileeeeee, at the depth of twenty four feet from the surface, there is said to run a thin vein of gold, the particles, whereof are carried by the springs and heavy rains into the contiguous firearms, from the sands of which 2 they
they are gathered by the negroes employed for tha purpose, they being obliged, one day with another to furnish their masters with one eighth of ar ounce of gold clay, about nine shillings sterling ir value; and whatever surplus they obtain, is, by fixed law, their own: so that it Sometimes chances, when they hit upon a wealthy stream, that they pur. chase slaves themselves, and live in great splendour, The king of Portugal's fifths of the gold yearly ex ported from Brazileeee to Lisbon, is said to-amount to three hundred thousand pounds, the capital whereof is a million and a half diamonds are also the natural produce of this country, and are found, as well as the gold, in the beds of rivers, in such abundance, that to prevent their growing too plenty, the king of Portugal has lately established a diamond company, in which a certain property of all the diamonds found in Brazileeee, is vested, and which is refiriaed to the use of but eight hundred slaves in searching for them. This was a very necessary caution; for it is very likely there are immense quantities of these valuable gems among the rocks of crystal that are scattered through the mountains of the country, whence they are washed by the torrents into the rivers, from which they are taken; but then it is to be observed, that it requires more than ordinary skill to discover a dia mont, in the rough coat that obscures his lustre, before it passes through the hand of the polisher.,It is not above twenty years since this precious commodity was discovered here; and before there was a certain confirmation of their value, one of t',e governors is laid to have acquired a vast fortune by collecting several of the tones, which he kept by him as counters; while many Portuguese, still living, remember with regret their having flung away Come of these apparent pebbles, which were of prodigious value. Many of the diamonds that,have
have been of late brought hence into Europe, are said to'be, in no refpea whatever, inferior goethe very best ever known in the Eaft-Indies.,But it is time to return to Mr. Anson's squadron, which we observed before left St. Catherine's on the 8th of January, the third day after which, they were attacked by a violent storm, and a fog so very thick, that the feet was therein totally dispersed; however, they all joined again the following day, the Pearl excepted, which they did not come up with till near a month after, when they were al most arrived at Port St. Julian, where it was absolutely necessary to make some delay to rent the Trial, which had lost her main-mast in the afore mentioned storm; it was during this time that the Pearl had like to have been taken, as was before observed, by Pizarro; and that her commander cap tain Kidd died, who was succeeded by the honour able captain Murray, captain Cheap being turned over to the Wager, and the command of the Trial being by the commodore conferred upon li tenant Charles Saunders of the Centurion, till whole re cover from a fever, under which he then laboured, MIr. baumarez, another of the Centurion's lieutenants was ordered to at as masser and commander of the Trial.,February the i8th, the squadron came to anchor in the bay of St. Julian on the coast of Patagonia, wihrre the Trial was immediately put in repair, be ing supplied by the Wager with a snare main-tops mash, which he converted into a fore-mat; where by probably the vessel was preserved with all her crew; for her malls were before too lofty, and had they gone by the board in the violent hurricanes, which she experienced in doubling Cape Horn, and where it was impossible for one flip to assist another, her loss had been inevitable.,0 3 That
That part of the south continent of America, which is unoccupied by the Spaniards, and extends from their settlements to the Streights of Magellan, hears the name of Patagonia; it is remarkable for being one continued chain of downs, of a light gravelly soil, covered with long coarse grass in ma ny paces, 2nd in others quite bare : so free is this trap of land from v.ood of every sort, a circum farce wherein it differs from every other part of the known gibbs, that Sir John Marlborough, who wintered here in 1670, with a view of prosecuting i' coteries, affirms he could not pick up the handle of an hatchet. A few horses and black cattle hav ing been imported by the Spaniards, upon their first "settling at Buenos Ayres, there have thriven so pro i.iC;u.,; upon the herbage, and increased to that c-ee, that the"' e.-xend in vair herds over this c(;;ti:.ent, as far as ever discoveries have been made; thing no longer consist red as a private property, ti: taken bv whoever chufcs to hunt them down, great quantities of the back cattle being yearly de strove civ for their talon, hides, and tongues; and even the horses are had, by the indians at leaR, ;o be excellent latin : the carcases that are left b; the hunters, fais a brey to the wild dogs, which hase also multiplied hele exceedingly: being im ported first by the Spaniards, whom perhaps they left, and ran uwid among the cattle, upon finding subsistence so easily to be obtained ; for it is plain th-c are cf a breed not originally found in Ames rica although :thousands of these dogs assemble toge ther, there is no fear of their diminishing the num tbr cf biAc-k cate, which they have not the cou rage to attack in herds; tb that they content them fives with bringing down a few stragglers, that fe parade from the rest, or else with the carrion left by,tte
the hunters, who follow the chace on horseback upon beats trained up thereto; carrying in their hands a thongs good length, with a running knot at the end of it; and of the management of this,, they are so much masters, that they never fail of fixing it about the horns of the beast they intends to catch, when they come to a proper distance The beast, when he finds himself entangled, ge neatly runs, but the horse takes cate to keep pace with him, and prevents the thong from being too much strained; till a second hunter, who follows. the game, throws another noose about his hinder legs, and then the horses setting different ways,. the heart is soon overthrown, and each horse keeps upon the stretch, in a contrary direction, till the. hunters dismount and secure him as they think pro per: much in the same manner are tigers roofed,. if we can credit the assertions of some people of es published reputation,,Sometimes there are two parties of Indians out together, one of which goes first to bring down the beasts, while the other follows to skin them. Tho' they oftener hamstring and leave them to languish in torment, imagining their anguish will burst the lymphatic vessels, and thereby facilitate the separations of the skins, for which, in a day or two,. they return; this barbarous practice has been loud ly and justly condemned, particularly by the priest,. whose thundering anathemas against the perpetrators of it, have not hitherto been able entirely to suppress itt here is one peculiar disadvantage in touching upon this port of Patagonia, for which the plenty of fresh provision will not compensate, and that is want of water, which hitherto has been found only in fall quantities; that which is common being brackish and ill-tasted, occasioned perhaps by the,0 4 nitrous
nitrous and saline qualities of the land through which it flows; however, this inconvenience ma probably be removed upon inspection. This con' tient abounds also with Peruvian sheep; which are extremely bfy and hard to be taken. And ot the eastern coast there are plenty of seals, will abundance of penguins, and variety of other sea. fowls. There are few inhabitants upon this fid( of the coast, which at Port St. Julian is not more than a hundred leagues over, whereas in the neigh. boyhood cf Buenos Ayres, where the continent-it near four hundred leagues broad, the natives are numerous, and very troublesome to the Spaniards, being br:.;e, spite, and spirited; and in manners nearly resembling those gallant Indians of Chili, v'ho have often set the Spanish power at defiance, and fill nobly preserve their independence. They are generally excellent horsemen, and extremely expert in the use of all military weapons, fire-arms excepted, the knowledge of which, the Spaniards take all possible precautions to conceal from them. It is very certain that-the best Pep at subverting the spanish power in America, would be to form a friendship with, and give due encouragement to these Indians and those of Chili. Port St. Julian is remarked by Sir John Marlborough as a place producing excellent salt, and that in quantities sufficient to fill a thousand ships, especially in the month cf February; however, Mr. Anson did not find this report verified : the salt which his officers found in the salt-pond, being scarce and bad, occasioned perhaps by the more than ordinary wetness of the wv.eather.,The Trial being properly refitted, which occupation had principally detained the squadron at Port St. Julian; the commodore held a council of the principal officers whose health would Permit thereto
to attend, on board the Centurion; when he in formed them that his orders were to secure some: port in the South-seas, where the ships of the squadron might careen and refit, and proposed an at tack upon Baldivia, the principal frontier of Chili, a proposition to which every member readily as seated; in consequence whereof, new instructions were given to the captains of the squadron im porting, that in case of reparation, after a ten days cruize of Nostra Senora del Secoro, they were to proceed to forty degrees and forty degrees thirty minutes, and to cruize for fourteen days off the harbour of Baldivia ; after which pace of time, if they were not joined by the other (hips, they were to direct their course to Juan Hernandez, and to, as according. to. former orders; each captain be ing alio at the same time enjoined, at his peril,, not to separate from the Centurion, beyond the distance of two miles, without an unavoidable-nes ceffity.,Matters being thus properly adjusted, the squadron weighed anchor, and flood out to sea on the 27th-of February in the morning, when the Gloucester not being able easily to purchase her an cor, was obliged to cut her cabs,. and leave her. belt bower behind her And on the 4th of March, the day being. remarkably bright and pleasant, the had like to have been set on fire by a spark flying: from the forge into tome gun-powder and other combustibles, which an officer. on board was pre paring for title Spanish squadron,, whom. they were now daily in expectation of meeting; however,. this accident happily produced no other esse' than that of spreading an alarm. among the people,. which quickly subsided, with the danger. 'March the rth, they firs discovered the land of Terra, del Fuego, whose afpt& affords a prospect the most,0 5. dreary
dreary and uncomfortable that can be imagined it appears, without the least mixture of earth oi mold, like one continued chain of inaccessible rocks, terminating at a prodigious height in in numerable ragged points, clothed with eternal snow, and the hills whereon they rise seemed to have been cleft asunder, as if by earthquakes; the chasms horrible to behold, extending through the main substance of the rocks, almost to the very bottom.,In two days after they opened Streights le Maire, through which, though seven or eight leagues long, they were hurried by a strong tide, with good weather and a brisk gale, in about two hours; and as these are commonly reckoned the boundaries of the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean, every heart began to chear up, imagining their dangers almost at an end; and that now they where upon the point of realizing those golden dreams, on which, in imagination they had feasted so long, and in these de elusive hopes they were still more indulged, by the remarkable serenity of the sky, and the calmness of the weather. But scarcely had they attained the southern extremity of the Streights, before there pleasant pr,)pecEs vanished entirely; the clouds be ga n to other on every hand, the tide turned furiously against them, the wind shifted about to the southward, and came on in sudden squalls, with fu-h violence, that they were obliged to hand their top-sims, and reef their main sail, while they were drive:: bv the tide six or seven leagues to the earl ward of 'treiigs le Maire.,From this day forward, to the end of more than three months, they struggled with perils and dirk re, scarcely to be paralleled, from a conti need ;uccerfon of tempestuous weather that fur prized the oldest sailors on board, who unanimously,coifeffcd,
confessed, the most violent hurricane they had ever' seen, were but inconsiderable gales, compared to. what they now underwent, from short and mountainous seas; besides the squalls of wind, any one of which, had it chanced to break over the flip,. whereof there was perpetual fear, would have in inevitably sent her to the bottom amidst these terrors, the ships rolled gunwale-to,. with motions so quick and violent, that without the men proved lucky enough to grasp some fixed body, they ran a hazard of being dashed in pieces. against her deck or sides; and there concussions kill ed and disabled many very useful hands :. these tern pelts were rendered fill more dreadful from the: manner of their approach, which were generally without the least previous notice, after a continued! calm; an interval that had emboldened them to; venture to make sail with the fore-topsail set, or the courses double-reefed. To augment the distress which they occasioned, there blasts generally brought with them quantities of now and fleet,. which freezing over the sails and casing the rigging,, rendered them apt to snap at the slightest pull, and. besides benumbing the limbs of the sailors, often, mortified their fingers and toes, so that many of them were disabled from working april the lit, they encountered a storm more dreadful than any they had hitherto met, which breaking over the larboard side of the Centurion,. shove her quarter gallery, and considerably dama get her masts and rigging; this was succeeded by another, if possible worse, on the third, wherein. the Wager lost her mizen-mast and main-top-sail yard; and the gammon of the bowsprit, with the f re stay of the Anna pink were broke, as well as. all her masts near coming by the board ,It being now the I3th of April, they. all ex peter by their reckoning in a few days to haven 6 enjO) ed
enjoyed Come ease in the Pacific Ocean; when the hazy weather clearing up a little, and the moon firing out on a sudden; the Anna made a signal of seeing land right a-head: it being then not more than two miles distance, had not the wind luckily sifted to welt-northwest, whereby they were en able to stand over to the southward, whereas juR before it blew in squalls from the south-sea, they had surely bren lost upon this shore, which they concluded was that part of Terra del Fuego, called by Fresher, in his character of Magellan's Streights, Cape Noise. It was strange indeed how the cur rents should have driven them so strongly to the eastward; for the whole squadron esteemed them selves upwards of ten degrees more westerly than this land, so that when they imagined they ran down nineteen decrees longitude, they had not in reality advanced half that distance. After the mor trying disappointment of falling in with thecoaft of Terra del Fuego, they flood away to the south wc-ft, with the weather pretty favourable, till April the 2.;h ; in ite evening of which, the wind in creases from a fresh gale to a prodigious storm, and the weather was so very thick, that the whole fu. iron separated; nor did they meet again till they reached Juan Hernandez. In the mean time, to add to their other disasters, the scurvy began to mr:ke such a progress among them, that on board the Centurion only,, it carried cffforty-three men in the month of April!, and double that number in 2i'ay.,The many different shapes in which this destructive disorder, so commonly felt upon long voyages, attacks the huma-n body, are as strange and un accountable as its symptoms are various and incon- f-.:; t it generally attended with swelled legs, Su;r;d guns, flange dejection of spirits, liiver-,j"gs,
kings, and trembling, with a disposition to be seized with unaccountable terrors upon the flighteft.ac- cedent: it opened the wounds of an old marine in such a manner as if they had never been healed, though they had been fifty years closed; where a. leg had been formerly broken and afterwards con foliated, it dissolved the callosity of the bone, and the feature appeared as it had never been cured. Again, some of the sailors, who, though confined to their hammocks, discoursed with a loud, firing tone of voice, having good stomachs, and a chear ful disposition, were found dead upon an attempt made to move them to a different quarter; and others, who confiding in imaginary strength, have left their hammocks, resolving to go upon deck, have expired in the way; while upon deck itself, nothing was more common than to see the men drop dead, upon a violent effort of duty however, having now weathered Cape Horn, and the inhospitable rocks of Terra del Fuego, they indulged themselves with hoping to find a cessation of their trouble in the Pacific Ocean. But even here they were deceived; for on the 8th of May they arrived off the island Secoro, in which station they cruised for several days, in hope of being join ed by some of the scattered ships, but to no pur pose; nor was this disappointment their only un easiness, for they were utterly ignorant of the coast, which wore a most rugged appearance, and where on they feared daily being driven by the westerly winds which blow here almoti constantly; and their escaping being wrecked upon it, is next to a miracle the squalls of wend were generally very severe, accompanied with light showers of rain, loud claps of thunder, and flashes of lightning, one of which in sweeping over tee deck, went off like the ex-,plosion,8
passion of a pistol, leaving behind it a sulphur. vous smell, and wounding several men and officers by whom it passed. It would swell this narrative to an huge volume, should we pretend to enumerate the disasters, fatigues, and terrors which they sustained even upon this coast, till the 24th of May; when they were once more assailed by a tempest more terrible than any they had hitherto under gone, for now the elements seemed absolutely to have conspired to their destruction; almost all their sails were split, their rigging destroyed, and a mountainous wave breaking over them on the lar board quarter, shifted their ballast and stores; so that the vessel heaved two freaks to port, while her mais were, every infant, expected to come by the board however, the wind abating, they began to exert themselves in firing up their shrouds, reeling new lanyards, and mending their sails; during which operation they were driving ashore on the island of Chiloe; but the wind happily shifting to the southward, they steered cff land with only a main sail, there being no body left to manage the helm but the master, and the reverend Mr. Walter, the commodore's chaplain; tie rest being all busied in securing the mass and bending the sails. This was the lait stormy weather they met with hereabouts, for that day they got clear of the land; and after a fortnight cruize, without any of the other ships coming up, the weather being pretty moderate, they bore away for Juan Hernandez, it' being the only chance left them to avoid perusing at sea, and the most probable place they co'i!d think of whereat to refit and recover the sic ; for though Baldivia had been the appointed rendezvous, it was no more thought of, the only hope now cherished on board being that of saving the hip, and the few remain ing lives.,At
At last, after various perplexing circumstances, they gained the island on the 9th of June, in a most desponding condition, with a scarcity of fresh wa ter, a crew so disabled with disorders, that not more than ten men could be mustered on a watch to do duty, and even some of these lame and un able to go aloft. It were injustice to the know lege and skill of Mr, Anson, should we omit to ob serve, that had his directions been pursued, they would have made their desired port on the 28th of Milan ; but his opinion was over-ruled by the ma majority of officers, whereby the flip continued twelve days longer at sea than she would have otherwise done; and the lost between seventy and eighty men, which, had this advice been taken, might undoubtedly have been saved.,C H A P. III. Some account of the island of Juan Hernandez: of the,nreaJires proud by Mr. Anson there: the 7 real, tie GlbiceJfer, and the Anna pink also make this island : a sort review of the various distress they bhadpreviozury endured: an account of the loss of Abe eager, and the various adventures of her fur living crew, till their arrival in England's E island of Juan Hernandez is placed by T Mr. Anson in south latitude thirty-three de green forty minutes; but by Dampier in thirty-four degrees forty-five minutes, and when first discover ed, appears to be surrounded with craggy, bro ken, precipices; but upon a nearer approach, this uncouth prosper changes into a landscape the most beautiful that can be imagined ; and though it must be at any time pleasing to the eye, yet the delight,was,6
was infinite, which the few surviving sailors en toyed from the sight of a land covered with woods interspersed with carpets of the loveliest verdure, watered with numerous streams and wanton cat; cades, which even at a distance refreshed and re. lived those who before were dying of thirsts The northern side of this island is composed of a range of craggy hills covered with aromatic trees, none whereof are of size to yield any considerable tim ber; the largest among them is the myrtle, whole top grows circularly, with as much uniformity as if it was clipped by art; and the bark of it yields an excrescence, in taste and smell like garlick, in read whereof it was used by the people of the Centurion; but even this tree will not cut to more than a length of forty feet. The pimiento and cabbage-tree also grow here, but in no great plenty and the commodore sowed plums, apricots, and peaches, which have since thriven exceedingly: the trees cannot take any deep root, for the soil is loose, gravelly, and so hallow, that a sailor, in pursuing a goat, happened to flip upon a declivity, and to save himself catched hold of a large tree, which gave way and fell with him, as did another of still more considerable bulk. which he also grasp ed in his f11l: so that he was dashed to pieces among the rocks. An accident of near the same nature had like to have happened to Mr. Brett.,It has been observed, that some of these hills of Juan Hernandez resemble those in Chili, the bow els of which teem with gold; and there are others of a bright red soil, more beautiful than vermilion, the uses of which perhaps it might be found to sup ply upon trial. Purloin, water-cresses, wild for ret, turnips, Sicilian radishes, and many other vegetables particularly such as are best adapted to the cure of the scurvy, abound every where on the,illand,
island, whose numerous beauties must enchant every person that has a table for simple nature's handy-work, her efforts here far surpassing the elegance of labouring art. Few parts of the globe can perhaps equal in dignity and grandeur, many scenes to be met with among the hills, whose openings present to-the enraptured view, vallies in finitely charming, where the shade and fragrance of the neighbouring woods, the loftiness of the over hanging rocks, the frequent falls of the surround ing fireams,- and the transparency of the waters form a retreat more pleasing than poet ever fab leda sylvan scene for nature here Wantons as in her prime, and plays at will Her virgin fancies, pouring forth more sweet, Wild above rule or art, enormous bliPs.,Mean while the murmuring waters fall Down the slope hills dispersed, or in a lake, That to the fringed bank, with myrtle crown'd, Her chrystal mirror holds. MILTON. The abundance of goats which former navigators are said to have found upon this island, have been much diminished by the dogs set ashore here for that purpose by the Spaniards, to deprive the buccaneers of the advantages which they reaped from their numbers, whereby they were supplied with plenty of provisions. Among some such of these animals as fell into the hands of the Centurion men, there were found two or three of most venerable asper, which from having their ears flat, they supposed to have formerly belonged to Mr. Selkirk *. The dogs having encreased ex * See the account of Mr. Selkirk, in the voyage of Votes Rogers.,ceedingly,
exceedingly, have made themselves masters of all the accessible parts of the island; while the few fur living goats maintain the high grounds,. and secure the narrow passes by a constant guard. Mr. Wal ter, in his account of this voyage, tells us, that he saw a troop of dogs endeavouring to gain a hill, on the top whereof there was a large flock of goats; and that the leader of them, followed by the rest, upon the first approach of the dogs, marched to a defile, by which only the eminence could be at gained, and there posting himself, like another Leo. midas defending his Thermopylae, resolutely waited the onset, which the dogs did not chuse to make; but lay down panting for breath, at the distance of about twenty yards: and after having reset themselves, and reconnoitred the foe, they thought it best to march back to the definition of some young seals, upon which food they now principally submit, for they certainly can get but few goats; and some of them have been bold enough to attack the human species, for they are of a large daring breed the males of the sea-lions, which animals, dur. ing the winter, covers all the sea-coast, have furious battles about their mates ; and he may be justly pronounced the best warrior-among them, who is surrounded with most females. The hearts and tongues of them are most delicious food, and they are so very fat, that one of them has been known to yield a butt of oil.,The bay abounds with plenty of delicious fish but more particularly with a sort of cray-fill, weighing eight or nine pounds a-piece; and there were formerly a great number of cats here, bu these have been destroyed by the dogs; as have ths parcel, a sort of bard that used to burrow in til ground. Betides the hawk, the owl, the blackbird
bird, and the humming-bird, uot many ofthe wing ed species are to be met with on this island.,We ought to have remarked before, that the sea lion, or lioness, is a creature extremely fond of its mate; and there was an instance of this in one of the latter attacking a sailor, who was carelessly skin king her companion, whom he had killed; and the beat having contrived to get the poor fellows head in her mouth, scored it in several places with her teeth, wounding him thereby so desperately, that he died in two or three days after the flip was no sooner brought into a safe birth upon this island, than measures were taken for erecting tents ashore for the reception of the sick, the number of whom amounted to one hundred and six ty seven persons, twelve or fourteen whereof died on being exposed to the fresh air. There was a ne effigy for removing the greatest part of them, for they were quite helpless, in their hammocks, a work of considerable fatigue, in which Mr. Anson, with his usual chearfulness and humanity, as well as his officers, bore an equal part. It will not be amiss to observe, that so inveterate was this disorder which raged among them, that it did not abate of its fury in less than twenty days after the landing of the crew, but they continued, during the first ten or twelve days, to bury six or seven of their people daily; and this horrible disease seemed as if it had resolved that no force should displace it.,Previous measures being fettled for the recovery of the tick, their next care was to purge and cleanse the flip thoroughly, which was become extremely loathsome; and that employment being properly ended, they proceeded with all possible expedition to lay in their wood and water; in which they made the more haste as they feared the return of Pizarro's squadron, which it was plain, from the heaps of fresh ashes, and Scattered fragments of fish-bones,
bones, had been lately here, and it was impossible that Mr. Anson should be as yet acquainted with that officer's melancholy condition i and Mr. An son, in his present circumstances, with only thirty hands to man a sixty gun flip, was certainly net match for any hip of force. In order to make the more dispatch, the smiths and fail-makers were set to work upon mending the chain-plates and de. cared work, as Will as the sails and damaged rig. gir g.,WVe should have premised, that a few days after the Centurion had arrived here, the Tryal sloop appeared in sight, and was brought into harbour .with the help or some men dispatched to her assisi. ance in the long-boat by Mr. Anson, having only three men, betides captain Saunders, her commander and her Lieutenant, able to stand to the sails, having 'crown thirty four of her hands over-board in this run, and the rest being down in the scurvy,,On the 2!0f of June the Gloucester undiscovered to the leeward, making the best of her way for the island. though they were not convinced of her identity till the 26th, when she appeared full in view, and the commodore straightway dispatched his long boat on board her with a supply of fresh water and vegetables, whereof she flood in prodigious need: for without this timely aid her people had certainly expired through thirst, being put to an allowance of a pint of water each man per day, and at that rate having not more left than what would have serves them twenty-four hours. It was the misfortune of this vessel to continue driving off and on, till July the 2-d, sometimes out of tight of the land, in the greatest distress imaginable, and the most imminent danger of foundering. These difficulties were oc cautioned by the winds and currents setting strongly *gainst her: however, she at last made the northl,wev
west point of the bay, with a flowing sail, and in an hour came to a safe anchor, at a time when the people on board began alios to despair of ever gaining land, or seeing an end. of their calamities but in death these two ships, and the Anna pink, which ar rived here about the middle of August, being a wel come fight, because of the provisions which l;he carried, were the only vessels that ever joined the squadron;. for the Severn and the Pearl, having been parted from the commodore off Cape Horn, with difficulty reached Brazilee, whence they made the belt of their way back to Europe. We shall (peak shortly more largely of the adventures of the Wager, which flip was run a-shore on a desolate island, where The was lost; busiest we hall detain the reader a few moments with a view of the adventures of the Anna before The reached this island. This vessel fell in with land in forty-five degrees fifteen minutes south-latitude, at the distance of four leagues, on the x6th of May; on the first sight of which they wore (hip, and flood to the southward; but their fore top-sail splitting, a hard gale at west south-west drove them towards the score, which the was unable, and some say the captain was unwilling to avoid, hoping for shelter and refreshment among the many islands then in sight. In about four hours she dropped anchor off the island of Incline; but neither being near enough the east shore, nor yet having a sufficiency of hands to veer away the cable briskly, they continued to drive for two days, till they came within a mile of land, whereon they expected every moment to be wrecked, when on a sudden they came to the side of a finally gut, which running between the island and the main, afforded excellent anchorage in smooth wa ter, and a security against all weathers. This was a happy change for a crew, which the hour beforehand
had given themselves up for lost, without any hope of being preserved, for their boats were leaky; and, should they chance to reach the there, they feared falling a prey to the savage disposition which the Spanish historians award to the natives of the climate; and even now this terror remained with them, though but ill-founded, as appears from their not meeting one native during their slay upon the island: the only human creature, besides themselves, that they had sight of here, being an Indian, with his wife and two young children, who came into the harbour in a perriagua, having with them a dog, a cat, a fishing-net, a hatchet, a knife, a reel with worsted, a flint and feel, a cradle, some roots of a yellow hue and insipid taste, used by them instead of bread, and some barks of trees wherewith to co ver their huts the master of the pink had them brought on board in his yawl, and detained them lest they should have discovered him to some enemy, using them with great good nature, and permitting them all the day the free use of the deck, but at night locking them up in the forecastle; he fed them with the same victuals that were given the flip's crew, and rome times indulged them with a little brandy, of which liquor they were very fond. This Indian was a man of good natural parts, dexterous in making himself understood by signs, and to all appearance extremely kind and docile; and after he had been a good while captive, he made his escape with his wife and family, by getting through the scuttle, one night that he found it entailed, into the yawl, wherewith he rowed ashore, having first turned the long-boat and his own perriagua a-drift, which the crew found it difficult to recover. Had this fa sagacity and resolution extended to a more enlarged object than that of a single family, the same of this man had been immortalized i and his late mafteis,did
did to much justice to his merit, that they left pro visions for him in places from whence they supposed he took it, as it was soon gone; and this kind office they daily repeated; His escape, however, influenced them to precipitate their departure, fearing he should discover them either to the Spaniards or to tome of the barbarous inhabitants, of the latter particularly, they were under violent apprehensions. It was on this occasion the maser of the pink was persuaded to cease firing the evening gun; a practice to which he had hitherto constantly adhered, out of an ostentatious imitation of a man of war at set ting the watch: but he was at length convinced that concealment was his best security, and that this bra ado might prove his desertion. His delay at In chin was not long after this accident; for having taken in his wood and water, he made thebes of his way to Juan Fernandes,,The matter of the pink not having taken an ex as observation, was not able to ascertain the latitude of this island; however, it seems to be one of the Honos islands, which extends all along that coast, according to the Spanish accounts; and it is very probable that it borders upon forty-five degrees thir ty minutes south latitude. Here are two good coves, where Ships may conveniently heave down in secure shelter. Several streams of excellent fresh water fall into the harbour, and one of them is so luckily situated, that casks out of it standing in the long-boat may be filled with an horse. Though it was winter when the Anna pink was upon this sand, the air was mild, and the ground covered with a- beautiful verdure, yielding nettle-tops, wild celery, and other refreshing vegetables: the fresh-water ri vers abound with excellent mullets; and cockles and muscles osman extraordinary large size are found in great plenty upon the sea-coast: there are a food ex extremely delicious, as are also the geese, shags, and,penguins,
penguins, of which there are plenty enough farther inland with respect to making discoveries up the country this could not possibly be expected from a crew of not more than sixteen or seventeen persons, igno. rant of the coast, and labouring under perpetual apprehensions of being attacked by an enemy having brought the Anna pink, the Tryal, and the Gloucester back to the commodore, and taken notice of the course pursued by the Pearl and Se vern, it now remains for us to give some account of the Wager, and her various distresses, after being divided from the rest of the squadron escape Boil. The Wager was commanded by captain Cheap, who was extremely solicitous about reaching Baldivia having on board some few field-pieces, cohorts and other kind of military stores, besides pioneers tools; all which implements would have been much wanted in case the projected attack upon that place had been adhered to. These confider. tions induced the captain, in spite of the flip's distresses to make the best of his way to the first ren devout of Secoro, whence he intended to have seemed for Baldivia, in case he missed of the qua. iron at the first mentioned placet his was his determined resolution, when, on the morning of the 14th of May, he fell in with lane in south latitude forty-seven degrees, of which ex eating himself to get clear, he fell down and disco dated his shoulder, whereby he was rendered in capable of acting; and the crew not taking prope: pains to work her off the coast, she struck on sunken rock, and soon after bulged and grounded between two small islands, about a musket-shot from shore. The confusion produced by this ac cedent was inconceivably heightened by the rebel pious disposition of the crew, who imagining th loss of the flip destroyed the captain's superiorities
and put them all on an equal footing, fell to rising her stores and drinking her liquors, without any attention to their calamitous condition. In this situation many of them got so drunk that they were drowned by the water flowing. into the. wreck at a time when they were incapable of retreating; a proceeding against which the captain, and rome of the soberer people, had admonished them. before hand to no purpose: and so far were they transported by their unaccountable frenzy, that rome of those, who had staid on board out of obstinacy, being afraid of the vessel's parting, with the weather, which was next day very stormy, pointed a four pounder from the quarter-deck, against the hut wherein they supposed captain Cheap to be 'sheltered, which they fired at and very narrowly missed; and all this because the boat, which they had before re ejected, did not put off to their affiance so loon as they expected upon a signal for it being hung out: nay, so very mutinous was their disposition, that there was no possibility of husbanding such provisions as could be saved out of the wreck, or of making a proper division thereof; for there was nothing but frauds, concealments, and thefts among them, which were productive of eternal discords another important point was the captain differ ing with almost all his people in opinion concerning the measures to be pursued in the present exigency. The common resolution of the malcontents was to lengthen the long-boat, and accompanied by the other boats to fleer to the southward, and passing Magellan's Streights to endeavour to gain the coat' of Brazilee, whence they supposed they should easily find conveyance to Great Britain. However hazardous this attempt appeared, it presented a dawning hope of their being able to reach their own country once again; which reviving circumstance outweighed every other consideration vol. VII. P The
The captain's design. was of a quite different na. ture; his intention being to sit up the boats in the belt manner possible, and to proceed with them to the northward, where, as he had above one hundred men in good health, with some fire arms and am munition, he did not forfeiting upon some Spanish vessel, as there are almost a certainty of meeting with many in the neighbourhood of Chiloe or of Baldivia; and then he intended to proceed to Juan Hernandez which sand it appeared probable to him could be made with the boats only, even if they should fail taking a prize. This project was always foremost in the captain's thoughts, and led him un demand to obstruct as much as in him lay the mea sures of his opponents, wherewith however he ap feared outwardly to comply. The following un happy accident fell cut in the interim, that confider ably heightened their dissentions. A midshipman cf the name of Cozens, who had involved himself in broils with most cf the officers, and several times insulted even the captain himself, took upon him to abuse the purser, close to the captain's tent, for sloping the allowance of a lazy fellow who had re fused to work. The dispute was productive of high words ard very scurrilous language, especially en the side of Cozens, at whose insolent behaviour the Durer, growing enraged, cried out, A mutiny, a mutiny, the dog has pistols; at the same time he fired a pistol himself, the report of which being heard by the captain, he rushed out of his tent, and not doubting but it was Cozens who had fired, from him thro' the head instantly; and the wound proved mortal, for it killed him at the end of four teen days. This action, for some time, rendered the crew more submissive than before; but about tie made of Otober, when the boats were almost ready to sail, the majority of them put the captain rider a guard, pretending they would carry imprisoned
prisoner to england, .there to be tried for murder: but when they were ready for sea, they shewed that they had never intended this measure, by setting him at liberty, and leaving to him, and the few who chore to partake of his fortune only the yawl, to which the barge was afterwards added, because the people on board her were prevailed on to return back. Out of one hundred and thirty men that survived the wreck of the Wager, thirty died during their slay upon this island, for such in the end it proved to be, and not part of the continent, as had been first imagined the number that embarked in the long-boat and the cutter for the southward were eighty, who, at their going off, gave the captain and his company, consisting of nineteen persons, three cheers: this was on the thirteenth of October, five months after the loss of the Wager; and on the .9th of January following these adventurers arrived at Rio Grande, on the Brazilee coast, having loll the cutter, and be ing reduced from eighty to thirty persons, and those in the greatest misery thro' want of food and water. The captain, and the companions of his misfortunes were not able, through the badness of the weather and other intervening difficulties, to fit their barge and yawl for their expedition northward till the 14th of December; and they had scarcely been an hour at sea, before the winds blew an hurricane and the waves ran so very high that they were obliged to throw overboard most of the provisions they had saved from the wreck, to prevent their going to the bottom this hardship retarded their progress confider ably, as they were thereby necessitated to make every sore they could possibly reach to procure themselves subsistance; moreover their yawl sunk as (he lay at anchor with one of their hands on board who was drowned ; and there not being rooms 2 sufficient
sufficient on board the barge to flow her compte. ment of men, they were forced to leave four ma. lines behind them on a desolate shore. Norwich. standing this chain of differs, they continued to push to the northward till the end of January; when having made three unsuccessful attempts at doubling a head-land, supposed by them to be Cape Tres Mentes, they put back, almost in de fair, to their former birth, which they had named Wager Island, and came up with it in the middle of the month of February. Disheartened at their repeated disappointments, and quite worn out with hunger and fatigue, here they were seasonably relieved by several pieces of bees which had been lately walked out of the wreck, and still swam upon the water. Soon after this piece of good fortune, two canoes came among them, on board one of which was a native of Chiloe, who understanding a little Spanish, was induced by Mr. Elliot, the fur gen, who spoke the language, to consent to transport captain Cheap and his people to Chiloe; in consideration of which kindness he was to have the barge and all that belonged to her. Accordingly on the 6th of March, eleven persons, to which the company was now reduced, embarked on board the barge; but after a few days voyage, six of them, together with an Indian, went off in this little velle, leaving a-shore the captain, lieutenant Hamilton of the marines, Mr. Elliot the fur gen, the honourable Mr. Byron and Mr. Camp bell, two midshipmen; who were in a moi disconsolate condition, or a dreary barren coals, with out provision or the smallest means of procuring any; for their arms, their ammunition, and every little convenience of which they had been makers, were carried off in the barge. They now saw a near completion of their calamities, and nothing: but a pr., ed of inevitable destruction, when the In-,dian,
tian, with whom they had bargained to convey them to Chiloe, returned with his canoe. It seems he had been out a-fishing, and left the barge in care of another Indian, whom it was very probable the sailors had forced out to seat his howell Indian, when he first missed the barge and his companion, concluded that he had been murdered; but being at length satisfied of the contrary, he adhered to his former promise of conveying captain Cheap and the four gentlemen along with him to some of the Spanish settlements, promising to supply them with provisions enough all the way; for no persons are better skilled in fishing and fowling than the Indians. For there purposes he provided several of his neighbours in other ca noes; with whom the captain embarked,-toge- ther with his four companions, one of whom, viz. Mr. Elliot, the surgeon, died in the passage. It was the middle of March when they left Wager Island, and about the beginning of June they arrived' at the island of Chiloe, where the Spaniards treated them with great humanity. Lieutenant Hamilton was by some accident left behind in the way, and did not arrive here till the latter end of Augustus such an ill irate of health were these four gentlemen reduced by their various distresses, that it was not without great difficulty they recovered, nature being almost worn out on their arrival therefrom Chiloe they were transmitted to Valparaiso, and thence to St. Jago, the capital of Chili, where, after having continued about a year, captain Cheap, lieutenant Hamilton, and Mr. Byron, were allowed to embark for Europe on board a French ship, upon the news of a cartel being fettled between Great-britain and Spain; but Mr, Campbell having turned roman-catholic at Buenos Ayres, returned to Spain with Pizarro in the Asia; but failing of his endeavours to procure himself a commission in that,P 3 service
service at the court of Madrid. he returned to England, hoping to be again reinstated in the 'triton navy; however, his proceeding among the Spaniards were too recent to admit of his meeting i'fcefs in that attempt. This gentleman has pub. ifhied a defence of his conduct, together with a memorial of his sufferings; and I think he has since that :ire retained a commission in the royal navy of Portugal.,C H A P. iii. T/,; Tryc!f/:o sint in search of th. Severn and Pearls .i'j:sto; j n oszo;js tf the. I n; lafafarero de fvL-,d;; tee-arena ;pik is broke up; an enume. raei.n f ths , Ives cf the Centurion, the Gloucester, and the Trj-al; filial prizes taken; the Tryal on,iemned as aft fJr servi e, arndunk ; her name given o a prize; Mr. A.ifn's tenderness of Isis printers; an attempt upon Paita resolved upon. Commodore E Anson imagined that either,' the Pearl or the Severn might touch at Massa fuero, in hight of which the Gloucester had been, before the made Juan Fernandes, dispatched the Tryal to enquire into the truth of his suspicions; and tfe returned, after having failed quite round the sand without having gained the falleth intel licence whatsoever concerned them. Mafafuero has been always represented by the Spaniards, who call it the Lesser Fernandes, as a barren rock, with out wood, water, or provision of any kind. But this appears to be a political falsity, asserted to pre vent hostile vessels from touching here. It bears from the Greater Juan Fernandes west by south, at the distance of twenty-two leagues; is covered with : c;. exhibits funeral fine Dreams of fresh waterman
and abounds with goats, which, not having been often chaced, are easily brought down. The shore is bespread with seals and sea-lions, and on the north side there is anchorage in deep water, where in care of necessity a single ship may find shelter close under the shore; tho' the convenience thereof can not be boasted of, as it lies exposed to all winds but the south. The latter part of the month of Au gust was spent in unloading the' provisions of the Anna pink, which vessel, upon a scrutiny of all the carpenters-was judged unable to live upon the wa; ter; wherefore, upon a petition of Mr. Gerard, her master, to the commodore, she was purchased, with all her furniture, for the use of the squadron, at the rate of three hundred pounds, to be paid to her owners. And her crew, consisting of ten men and the mailer, were entered on board the Gloucester which flip had but eighty-two sailors re gaining alive, out of three hundred that the brought out of England; two, out of forty-eight marines, and every one of her invalids were perched. The Centurion, since her leaving St. Helens to this time, had buried two hundred and ninety two of her hands, and had now remaining on board two hundred and fourteen. She had lost forty-fix out of fifty invalids; and sixty-eight out of seventy-nine marines, officers included: so that upon a computation it appears that these three ships, which brought out of England nine hundred and sixty-one men, had amongst them all, in September 1741, only three hundred and thirty-five people left alive, boys included: a number scarcely sufficient to man the Centurion, and at the bear scarcely sufficient, with the utmost effort of their strength, to navigate t; e three ships the season for navigating in this climate being now near at hand, every body exerted himself in preparing the ships for sea, all hands being busied 4 for
for this purpose. About eleven in the morning ol the 8th they discovered a sail, which the Centurion, being in tost forwardness, made after as fast as poTffhle; but losing her trac in the night, they kenton a south-east course, in hope of coming up with her, as they supposed her bound to Valparaiso; but not getting sight of her again they resolved to fleur back to Juan Fernandes; when, about three in the morning of the eth, a brisk gale-springs ing up at west south-west, obliged them to lie upon a north-west tack, which, to their agreeable fur. prize, brought them, upon the break of the morn ing, in sight of a sail, at about five leagues di. Dance, but not the same they had seen before. She appeared to be a large iÂ£ip; and upon her hoisting Spanish colours, and bearing upon the Centurion, the commodore ordered every thing ready for an engagement; but upon nearer approach she appeared to be a merchant, with-ut a single tier of guns, who had mistaken the commodore for her conform. She surrendered at the si e of only four shot, and Mr. Sdumerez, the Centurion's first lieutenant, was ordered to rake possession, and to send all the prisoners, beginning with the officers End passengers, on board the commodore. She was called the Nt era Senora de Monte Carmeloo; her cargo confined of cigar, and large quantities of coarse blue cloth manufactured at Quito, together with some indifferent tobacco and a few chests of-brought plate and dollars, weighing about two hundred pounds avoirdupois: her burthen wjs four hundred tons: the was manned with fifty-three sailors, black and white, and bound from Callao to Valparaiso. The intelligence received from the prisoners on board this prize was of the greatest consequence to the English squadron; for by this they firth learned part of the fate of Pizarro's squadron as also that the viceroy of Mexico had just,taken
taken off an embargo that had been laid upon all shipping in those seas, supposing that the English squadron, of whom he had not lately received any news, must certainly have perished in doubling Cape Horn, the apprehensions of which enemy had solely occasioned the embargo. They also now learned, that had they made Juan Fernandes, when in reality they first discovered it, May the 28th, they had certainly fallen in with some Spanish ships which had been fitted out by the viceroy of Peru, and sent thither to cruize, in ex peculation of catching such of them as might chance to escape round Cape Horn; and that these vessels had not quitted their station till the 6th of June, when they gave the English up for lost and returned to Calao; so that this delay, which had formerly appeared so terrible a misfortune, occasioning the lots of near eighty men, was in reality a great piece of good luck, and the absolute cause of preserving the (hip and the surviving crew. It appearing, by letters on board this prize, that several other mer clansmen were now at sea between Callao and Valparaiso, Mr. Anson having reinforced the Tryal sloop with ten of his own hands, sent her to cruize off the lawn mentioned port; and at the same time ordering the Gloucester, captain Mitchel commander, to proceed to south latitude fifty de green, and cruize off the sand of Paita till he should be joined by the commodore; and the better to enable her for this run, he put on board her twenty three [sailors and six passengers from the Carmeloo, which he also fitted out as a cruiser with four six pounders, the same number of four pounders, and two swivels september I9, the Centurion and beer prize, weighed from the bay of Juan Fernandes, to make her course to the eastward, intending to join the Tryal off Valparaiso. On the 24th in the evenings 5 they
they came with her, having at first taken her for an enemy, and prepared to engage. They found she had taken a prize of six hundred tons burthen, v.i:h much such a cargo as that of the Carmen, and about five thousand pounds in ready money. Rut to counterbalance this success, the Tria's main-topmast came by the board, and she had the i 1 !Lc: to spring both her main and fore mal'. Beards there mortifying circumstances, the wind bew so hard, and there was such a hollow sea, that there was no possibility of affixing her; nor yet was the to be left in such unhappy circum stances. During this embarrassment, it is certain Tat several considerable prizes must certainly have escaped them. The weather proving more mode rate on the 27th, the captain of the Tryal came on board the Centurion, bringing with him an instrument subscribed by himself and all his officers, setting forth that the vessel was so leaky and defective that it was of the utmost hazard of thir jives they staid on board her, for that at the left fzu: weather squall there could be no hope of keeping her above water, unless fie were repaired in such a marner, as their present situation could Fr t possibly admit of; wherefore the commodore having ordered every thing useful out of her on board the prize fie had taken, together with cap tain Saunders and her crew, fie was scuttled and hank. This necessary business being dispatched, captain Saunders proceeded in the Tryal's prize to Ler fiction of the north north-west point of Vain p:a.ifo, art need by lieutenant Saumerez in the Centurion prize; while the Centurion herself bore ;, o the southward, with a view of cruizing,n.r fdn-e cas to the windward of Valparaiso, from :.e::-e ,he intended to proceed to Pico or Nafca, - :cii the commodore named as a place of ren-the
The various delays they had met were of such bad consequence, that it was the 5th of November before they could discover any thing like a sail; about this time, however, they fell in with and seized a flip, burthen three hundred tons, bound from Guiaquil to Callao; and. laden with timber, cacao, coco, hides, pity-thread made of a firing species of grass, wax, Quito-cloth, and about one hundred and seventy pounds in money:. she was called the Santa Teresa de Jesus, and had forty five sailors on board, ten passengers, four men, three women, and three black slaves. Mr. Dennis the third lieutenant of the Centurion was merit with six teen men in the boat to take possession of her; aid by his courteous humane behaviour he soon con v;nced them that their notions of being fallen into the hands of buccaneers and pirates was very ill grounded; for they had laboured under terrible apprehensions of ill usage; and though the women were ail extremely agreeable, and the young cet of them particularly handsome, they did not ;next the slightest rudeness from the sailors; but by the commodore's positive order, had the free tu; of their apartments, slaves, and necessaries, with very other conveniency that could possibly be as hooded them: he also permitted the pilot, who is the iec)nd person on board every Spanish flip, and a !;;t of guardian to the women, to continue with them : this man had at first pretended to be the hus bid of thehlandforneft of these ladies, but it was city an honest fraud, calculated to preserve her ft . being i.l used ; and to do justice to their la ,a:;ty, they were very sensible of the '.ene'.olnce, :a-ierncfs, and polite behaviour of the ccrm!no- : re, upon whom they begged leave to w it at the tile that he afterwards gave them their liberties, tli;a t'ev might personally assure him (,; ther gr a- latitude, and their deep f.:!fe of til favours h hades' 6 c, :.{' 'red
conferred upon them. We should not forget to observe, that all the prisoners, upon their first fal ling into the hands of the English, appeared in the greatest dejection imaginable, expecting nothing but the most barbarous treatment, in a belief whereof much pains must certainly have been taken to ground them; for they even acknowledged that after hav ing experienced the politeness; of Mr. Anson's be saviour, and his extreme beneficence, they for some time could scarcely credit their own feelings; so firing was their prepossession. Among the rest, there wa. a lad of about seventeen, son to the vice president of Chili, who imagining that he was be come a slave for life to a most brutal race, lament ed the being separated from his parents, his count. try, and his friends, in the most pathetic terms yet when this-youth had been some time on board, the civility with which every body used him, and the care the commodore took of him, had such an es sect upon him, that he declared he would have been content to have front his life with Mr. Anson. It would be doing injustice to most of the prisoners not to mention that after they went a shore they were cloud in praise of their captors ; and a Jesuit of some distinction, who had been a prisoner on board one of the prizes, omitted no opportunity of paying his tribute of thanks to the commodore, by every where publishing the nobleness of his be saviour; adding, that his usage of the men would always call for the be acknowledgment; but his honour le behaviour to the women was extraordinary even beyond belief the commodore here ordered the boats to be repaired, there being timber enough in the last prize; and to facilitate their boarding an enemy's veiTc. , in case of necessity, he ordered a swivel gun Rock to b- fixed in the how, both of the barge and of the pinnace. About this time, being insight
eight degrees or thereabouts, the sea for many miles round was covered with the spawn of fish, which gave it the colour of the finely vermilion; and flying fish and bonitos begun to grow plenty, be ing the first they had seen since they left the coast of Brazil. November i6, lair g off the souther mot islands of Lobos de la Mar, at the distance es three leagues, looking out for the Gloucester, who had been appointed her station hereabouts; they discovered a sail, which lieutenant Brett, with the Tryal's'pinnace and barge, were ordered to chace. There being but little wind stirring, and it' plainly appearing that this flip was not the Gloucester the lieutenant soon came up with and board ed her; The was called the Nuefira Senora del Car min, Marcos Modena, a Venetian, commander: She was bound from Panama to Callao, having touched at Paita for water, with a cargo of feel, iron, wax, pepper, cedar plank, suff, rosaries, European bale good, powder blue, cinnamon, Ro with indulgences, and other pieces of merchandize of little value to the captors; but if considered with regard to the loss it might be to the Spa niards, was a considerable capture i the cargo hav. ili coil, at the first hand, upwards of four hun died thousand pounds.,On board of this lip there was an Irishman, whose name was John Williams; he had travelled as a pedlar all over the kingdom of Mexico, and made a great deal of money, which he had lost again by some mischance; this man had been for some time confined in the jail of Paita for a misdemeanor and expressed great joy at falling in with his countrymen. From him they charged, that upon a flip's having been chased in tie offing of Paita, a few days before, by a vessel supposed to be theGlou- cefier, the governor !f that town, apprehensive of a visit, together with the royal officer, were re-,moving,3
moving their own, and the king's treasure to Piura, a town fourteen leagues within land : williams also told them, that there was a large sum of money belonging to the merchants, lodged in the customhouse and that it was intended to be sipped the following day, on board a light clean vessel, the bottom of which was newly primed; which vessel was bound to Sonfonnate on the coast of Mexico, to purchase part of the cargo of the Manila ship this piece of intelligence immediately deter mined the commodore to endeavour to surprize the place without a moment's delay ; as he was fully satisfied, by an enquiry into the strength and condition of it, that there was little danger of losing many men in the attempt: besides there was a ne cefi,:y for some step of this sort, as they could hope for no profit by a longer cruize in these seas; the coast being alarmed of their contiguity; and this enterprize not only promised a supply of live pro vision, which they much wanted, but afforded an opportunity of putting the prisoners ashore, xho, being very numerous, made a greater consumption of the flip's flores than she was able to spare chap. IV. .n accy,;nt ~f the taking hard dir 'ig the tf'cw,.,of Paita. A I T A lives in five degrees twelve minutes P south latitude, on a barren sandy soil, void of water, greens, or any kind of refreshment, a fete goats, and some fish excepted ; but of these, how ever, there are constant supplies brought down upon floats from Colin, a town lying about three leagues to the northward. The '.; ter of this place is cf a whi; lh disagreeable ascot ; I hol'cvr, it is fail to be,vc;s
very wholesome, being strongly impregnated with sarsaparilla, wherewith the country through which it runs, is abundantly flocked: cattle are brought down thither from Piura. Nothing could have in duce any persons to settle upon so inclement a spot, but that it is the best bay to be met with on that part of the coast, affording very secure and commodious anchorage. It is the only place at which Ships can touch to refresh in their passage to Callao ;sand the common rendezvous of all vessels from Acapulco, Sonfonnate, &c.,This town consists of about two hundred houses, each not more than one story high, the walls being of split cane and mud, and the roofs only a covering of leaves: edifices of this sort, though extremely slight, are quite sufficient for a climate, wherein rain is perfectly unknown: there fell a small quantity in 1728, which was looked upon as a prodigy, and proved the destruction of many buildings. The inhabitants are Indians and black slaves, or at bet a mixed breed, but few white men being fettled here. The only defence of Paita, at this time, was a sort without either ditch or out-work, but fur rounded by a brick wall of little or no strength ; in it were mounted eight pieces of cannon, and the garrison confined of but one weak company; though the town was able to arm three hundred men, to . hat purpose we fall not pretend to say, not having heard that they ever gave any instances of their mi litany capacity. The commodore, after duly weigh ing the strength of the place, resolved that the at tack should be made by the boats; fearing that if he hould attempt first bringing the sips into harbour, the Spaniards, apprized of the danger, might take measures for securing their most valuable seas; The attack in this manner meditated, was immediately carried into execution. The barge and,pinnaces
pinnaces were manned with fifty-eight choice men well armed, under the care of Mr. Brett; and to him was left the whole conduct of the ex petition. The better to prevent any confusion that might arise from the people's being ignorant of the windings of the town, two Spanish pilots were ordered to guide them, with a promise of be ing well rewarded; and an assurance to the prison hers, that they should be all here set at liberty, pro vide these men behaved with fidelity); but on the contrary, it was observed, that in care they failed in the leash article of the duty to which they were appointed, they two should be shot, and all the Spaniards now in'cuflody carried prisoners to England It was particularly remarkable, that one of these pilots had been, about twenty years before, a prisoner with captain Clipperton, who forced him, in the same manner, to guide his men to Truxillo, an inland town to the southward of Paita, which they then surprized and pillaged. While the boats were mak ng for the bay, the mouth of which they reached without being discovered, the ships flood in for the port with all the sail they could. The approach of the tailors in the boats was discovered by some people, on board a flip lying at anchor in the harbour, who got a-shore as quickly as they could, spreading the alarm, by crying out, The En lish dos.,Notwithfaranding this intelligence, Mr. Brett got ashore before they could fire two guns from the fort-nd drawing up his men under shelter of a narrow street, marched immediately to the parade, with drums beating and loud clamours of somewhere he was received with a volley of small shot from some merchants, who posted themselves in a gallery that ran round the governor's house, but who were loon dislodged, and taking to their heels, left the,parade
parade in quiet possession of the invaders, who soon entered both the governor's house and the fort, which they found abandoned having lost one man and having had two wounded, one of them being the Spanish pilot of the Teresa; the honourable Mr. Kepple, son to the earl of Albemarle, had a piece of his jockey-cap shaved off close to his temple by a ball, which however did him no' other injury.,Mr. Brett having secured the fort, the governor's house, and all the avenues of the town, with proper guards, ordered the few inhabitants that were left to be confined in one of the churches under a proper guard; while some stout negroes, escorted by a file of musketeers, were ordered to assist in re moving the treasure of the custom-house, &c. to the fort-this being the principal thing to be considered after being possessed of the town.,As moss of the inhabitants had fled in their first fright, without slaying to does;; the sailors, who could not be prevented from breaking into the houses, to search for private pillage, eagerly seized upon their cloaths, which, according to the fashion of the country. were extremely superb; and throw ing these over their greasy jackets, cut so ridiculous a figure, when they appeared before the lieutenant, that he scarcely knew them; and their appearance was till more odd, from many of them having put on women's embroidered gowns when they had misled of men's cloaths. Early in the morning the 'Centurion opened the bay, and about twelve o'clock came to an anchor in ten fathom and a half water, at a mile and a half distance from the town. This and the following day was (pent in sending on board the treasure; and boats full of hogs, fowl, and other refreshments, together with the most va liable commodities to be found in the town: and this was done without any molestation from the,enemy;
enemy; though a good number of them, amon whom were two hundred horse, paraded upon neighbouring hill very ostentatiously, with all kind! of military music. These were headed by the go. vernon, who had been one of the firs that fled leaving a young wife of about seventeen to whore he had been but a few days married, to be carrie off in her swift by a couple of his people. Hi; escape was a sensible mortification to Mr. Brett, a2 well as to the commodore; because, had they recur. ed him, they might have got a considerable ransom for the town, there being in it at that time, fever ware-houses filled with valuable goods, which were consumed with it, when it was set en fire, upon the governor's refusing to listen to any overture! that were made him for a parley; for though Mr Anson intimated to him that the town might be preserved at a very trifling expence, he did not deign even to return a civil answer. And having collect ed a body of forces round the country, where however he made no use, he was so fond of hir new military command, that he seemed intirely t( have forgotten his government. His forces how ever, as Mr. Anson learned from some fierce defer terms, were in great want of water, and though the; had, one night, positively resolved to have fallen 0l his men, headed by a Scotch captain of a flip nam ed Gordon, they were deterred and intimidate therefrom by the great vigilance and striCt look oi of Mr. Bretton the fifteenth of November, their business Paita being pretty well over, the commodore fe all-his prisoners, in number eighty-two, a-flcr according to his promise; and then Mr. Brett having made a proper disposition of pitch, tar, )II other combustibles, to encrease the flame, set th town on fire in several quarters at the same time then having spiked up the eight pieces of cannot
he collected his men, there being only one missing, and marched regularly down to the water-side ; at which time a body of Spaniards upon the hill, put themselves in motion, as if they meant an attack but upon Mr. Brett's making a halt and facing about, this heroic troop did not judge it safe to ad vance they were now ready to put off from the beach, which was so covered with smoak, as to be almost invisible, when they heard the voice of a man loudly and pathetically invoking them to take him in; one of the boats made up to the place from whence the sound issued, and there found the man whom they had missed, up to the chin in water, for he could not swim, and had waded as far as he durst. It appeared upon examining into the cause of his delay, that having taken too large a dose of brandy he had fallen asleep, and was wakened only by the fire coming so near as to scorch him. He said, that at firft.he was strangely amazed to see the houses all in a blaze about him on one fde, and several Indians and Spaniards conferring together; however, recollecting his dangerous situation, he pushed through the thickest of the smoke, and ar rived upon the beach, barely in time to save himself. It ought to-be remarked, in honour to the conduce of Mr. Brett, and to the character of the men under his command, that this was the only person among them who was known to be drunk during the ex petition; and their behaviour upon the whole was infinitely regular, much beyond what could have been expected from a parcel of ruse jailors, who had been so long confined on board of flip, and who are, in general, too much addicted to de baichery.,Lieutenant Brett and his detachment now put o' to the sip ; the acquisition they made, in wrought plate, dollars, and other coin, amounting to up-wards
wards of thirty thousand pounds, exclusive of the broad cloaths, silks, cambric, velvets, and em. broidered, which were destroyed by the flames; besides which the private plunder, such as rings, bracelets, and jewels, the immediate property of the particular capers, were very great: it appeared by a memorial presented to the court of Madrid some time after, that the loss of the Spaniards by this action amounted to half a million of dollars: there being at this time six of the enemy's vessels in harbour, five of them were, by the commodore's order, towed out to sea, where they were scuttled and sunk; and the sixth, being the vessel wherein the treasure was to have been embarked, he added to his own squadron, by the name of the Solidadadadad, manning her with ten men, under the command of lieutenant Hughes of the Tryal sloop chap. V. che fquadronfails from Paita; disputes about plunder happily adjusted; they see, for uribo ; the Tcrifa and So:idad burned; also the Gloucester's prize; the island of Quibo described; some account of the pearl fiery in the bay of Panama; t :ey miss the Acapulco ]hip; ke squadron in want of water; Jeers for Cheqe:ian; their proceedings and a def riptin of that hai-blur ; fi!rrrizing qualities of the torpedo; they depart for China.,B O U T midnight, on the 16th of Novem A ber, Mr. Anson's squadron got under, sail: it consisted of six vessels, viz. the Centurion, the Tryal's prize, the Carmeloo, the Carmin, the Teresa, and the Solidadadadad; they stood to the westward, and in the morning spread themselves,.~~~~~~~~ ~~~~to
to look out for the Gloucester, it being near her appointed fiction. During this cruize, a dispute arose between the men who had been afore at Paita, and those who had remained on board, about the plunder, to share in which the latter maintained they had an absolute right; because their not having been upon the enterprize was a necessary chance, besides which, their presence certainly contributed greatly to facilitate it; and they represented that their duty on board was very laborious, since, besides the necessary care of the vessel, they were obliged to be constantly under arms, on account of the many prisoners then in their custody, who outnumbered them; and whom there was a necessity of guarding in the strictest manner, left at a juncture so very critical, they might have been tempted to form fomedange- rous attempt. These arguments were strongly op posed by the obstinacy of Tome, and the selfishness of others, the effects whereof might have been very destructive animosities, if the commodore had not interposed his authority; and having ordered all hands to assemble on the quarter-deck, he thank ed those who had been a-shore for their good be saviour, to which he gave proper encomiums: and then reasoned with them in such a manner, as made it plainly appear, that their companions on board had an equal right with them to the plunder. He ordered it all to be brought on deck, where he divided it equally among the whole lip's com any in the most impartial manner, giving to every man according to his rank and commission; but as an encouragement to others, who might chance to be employed on the like nature, he gave his own share of the booty to be divided among those who had been upon the attack; by which prudent mea lures, he soon restored matters to their former channel.,On
On the morning of the i8th, they gained sigh of the Gloucester, 2nd were joined by her about three in the afternoon; she had only taken twe prizes, one of which was a slow laden with wine, brandy, and olives, betides about seven thousand pounds in specie; the other a launch, the people on board which, when taken by the Gloucester's barge, were at dinner upon pigeon-pye, on a service of plate; notwithstanding which opu. lent appearance, they complained of their poverty, having nothing on board but cotton made up in jars, which were all removed into the Gloucester; where, upon a itrit examination, it appeared to be a fraudulent package, there being doubloons and dollars hid among the cotton to the amount of twelve thousand pounds, the property of the mer chants of Paita.,The Gloucester had, betides there, been in sight of two or three other-ships belonging to the enemy, one whereof they had reason to believe of prodigious value, but she found it impossible to come up with them.,As the squadron began to-want water, the com moore gave orders for proceeding to Quibo, an island in the mouth of the bay of Panama; and having there taken in a supply, he had resolved to steer for the southern parts of California, or the contiguous coast of Mexico, there to cruize for the Manila galley, which they knew to be at this time at tea, on her way to Acapulco, where it was ge neatly the middle of January before she arrived; and it being now only November, they imagined they 'you'd be able to gain the road time enough to intercept her, not conceiving the passage wouldcof them more than a month or five weeks they were at this time eight sail in all; but the Santa Teresa and the Solidadad moving slowly upon,the
the water, and retarding the progress of the rest of the vessels very much, the commodore ordered them to be cleared, of every thing useful, and then burn. ed. On the 22d they made the island of Plate; to which land one of the prizes was ordered to franc close in, to discover if any ships lay between that and the continent, and also to look out for a stream of fresh water reported to be there, which, if verified, would have saved them the trouble of going to Quibo; but She returned without having seen any ships, or discovered any water. About three in the afternoon they saw the point of Manta, bearing south-east by east, seven miles distant; and here the captain of the Gloucester. chose to set some of his.prifoners at liberty in the Spanish launch. Having now passed the equinoctial, they found the climate change from an uniform pleasant tempe rature, to close sultry weather; with frequent calms and heavy rains, as they drew nearer the Isthmus and quitted the shade of the Cordilleras; which alteration they fires imagined to proceed from the neighbourhood of the line; but they were satisfied, from this kind of weather attending them in seven degrees north, that the Vandals or stormy seasons were not yet ended, notwithstanding what's as firmed by captain Shelvocke and others, of its be. ginning in June, and ending in November. It now became necessary, from the continuance of the rain, to caulk the sides and decks of the Centurion to make her the more staunch. On the 27th captain Mitchel of the Gloucester, having cleared her prize, by the commodore's order, scuttled and burned her. December the 3d, they came in sight of Quibo, where in the evening of the following day they anchored in thirty three fathom muddy ground; which situation they :hanged the day after for a rough gravelly bottom,twenty
twenty-two fathom deep; the watering place bear. ing three quarters of a mile north west from the flip. The island of Quibo is pretty lofty except in one place the whole soil is covered'with trees, ex. tending as far as the high water mark, and a dream of fresh water rolls over the sandy beach into the sea; so that the Centurion was able to lay in a sufficient flock of wood and water in two days. A perpetual verdure crowns the glebe, and limes and cassia abound among the woods; wherein are to be found plenty of guanos and monkeys, that are good food, with numbers of deer, that cannot be easily come at; but besides parrots, paroquet, and mack. laws, all other birds seem to be strangers to the place. The Spaniards say, that a flying snake is often found here, which clings to the boughs of trees, from whence it takes an opportunity of darting upon man or bear, giving inevitable death with its sling besides these dangerous land animals, the sea is infested with large alligators, and with a flat fil of considerable bigness, which leaps a great height out of the water, and is fatal to the pearl divers, by clasping them in its sins as they rise from the bottom ; however, to free themselves from this de. strive embrace, they now go armed with a sharp knife; and by flicking it into the belly of the fish, regain their liberty. In most parts of the island the soil is very fertile; and the water, which is excellent, abounds on every hand. There are no .inhabitants upon it, but huts erect in several places, perhaps to shelter the pearl divers, who frequent this island in the summer-season, for the pearl oyster, which is found every where in the bay of Panama, abounds particularly about Quibo j and may in many parts be taken up without any trouble but that of wading. They are very large, but ill-tasted; the pearl partaking of the nature ostler
the bottom. whereon it is found; so that if the bot tom be muddy, the pearl is of a dusky hue. The fish ing for them is practised by negroes carefully trained up to the business by the inhabitants of Panama: there poor creatures often slay under water till the blood gushes out of their eyes, ears, and mouth; an accident which seldom happens a second time; and, after which they dive with more facility than ever, if the tradition of the country is to be relied upon there are vast quantities of turtle along the coal, some of which may be often met fast asleep on the surface of the water; and these are taken by send ing out the boat With a good diver, who plunges into the water when some yards from the turtle, and rising almost under it, seizes it by the tail, which he pinches hard, the pain whereof moves the animal, who being awakened, shrikes out his claws, whereby he keeps upon the surface of the water, supporting the diver at the same time. Green turtle is extreme wholesome food, the truth of which is evinced by the Centurion losing only two men during her run from Juan Hernandez to the bay of Aquitain, which engrossed a space of seven months; during four whereof turtle was the only fresh provision the people had to commandment may appear odd, but nevertheless it is true, that eating of turtle is forbid among the Spaniards, as unwholesome, nay as little less than poisonous; a prejudice which has descended to their negroes and slaves, some of whom, who were on board. the Centurion, thought the crew thereof mad for venturing upon food, the seeds whereof had been represented to them in so very bad a light; how ,P' ever, being at lad tempted to partake, they grew fonder of it in time than any body else; and ridiculed the caprice of their Spanish mailers in reje&-,VOL. VII. Q. ing
ing such a delicacy; looking upon their knowledge of its goodness as a very important discovery for those who are acquainted with this part of the world need not be told, that the wretched inhabitants know no blessing greater than that of been, always supplied with as much food as they can dispose of, and large draughts of spirituous liquors: from seed. ing sparingly upon this diet, they become ravenous in the consumption of it; and it was common to hear them felicitate each other upon being able to provide themselves such luxurious repasts upon their return home, to which the Spaniards could not but be sir angers december the both a small bark with Tome salt and .upwards of thirty pounds in money, fell into their hands off the island of Quibo: the was bound to Cheripe, an inconsiderable village on the continent, from whence the market of Panama is furnished with provisions every week; Cheripe is a place quite open to invasion, having no defence of any sort; and provisions being its staple commodity, future cruisers upon this coast may profit from the intelligence. On the i2th they flood from Quibo to the westward, having scuttled and sunk the las prize, and being joined by the Gloucester, which having sprung her fore-topmast, had been david. ed from them for orme days and now the commo dore proceeded to cruize for the Manila ships, hav ing first intruded his squadron to stretch to the northward of the harbour of Acapulco; and in case of separation, to rendezvous at the middle of the Tres Marias; and afterwards at the island of Macao, on the coast of China. They were harassed with contrary winds from this time to the 9th of June, on which day the Manila ship reached the harbour of Acapulco, as they were informed by three negroes, whom the Centurion's barge surprized in a filling canoe; which they afterwards turned,adrift
adrift among the rocks, that from its being dashed in pieces the Spaniards might infer the o vnete of it were drowned, and not impute their loss to the real cause this capture was made on the i7th of February until which time all the sailors had indulged themselves with hopes, that the voyage of the Acapulco flip had been by some chance delayed; and at one time a little before this, they had chaced a light all night long, which light they supposed to be carried by her as a signal to her con fort, and made a clear flip, and all things ready for engaging; but the morning Shewed it to be no more than a mountain within land, the. stubble whereof had been set on fire; and the effect caused them to be thus deceived. However, to comfort them for the loss of the Manila ship this time, they were informed by their negroes prisoners, that the having turned her cargo into ready money, was preparing again to put to sea, her departure being fixed to the 3-r of March, by edit of the viceroy of Mexico.,By all the intelligence Mr. Anton could colles betides from these people, he inferred that the go vernon of Acapulco remained ignorant of an ene my's being so near at hand, and consequently that his chance for seizing the so much desired prize, was now greater than ever; and that she shou'd not escape him at any rate, he disposed his five ih;ps in such a manner, that they took up a sweep of twenty-four leagues at least, within which com pass, nothing could pass, without its being known by the whole squadron; the vessels being so judiciously ranged, that they could easily and speedily be informed of what passed in any part of the line by signals. The better to prepare for the re caption of the gallon, there were left on board the Carmin, the Carmeloo, and the Tryal prize, no,Q 2 more
more hands than were sufficient to navigate them, the rest being sent on board the Gloucester and Cen. turin, which two ships were intended for the at tack; and as an encouragement to the negroes, they were promised their freedom in case of their deserving it by their good behaviour in the engage ment.,At length the-,3 March, the day they had so long and eagerly expected, appeared, but to their great mortification, the evening thereof set in, without the least appearance of the gallon. From that day to the 23d of March old file, they had hopes of her, as they were satisfied fne had not quitted the harbour of Acapulco; and every man formed to himself reasons for her being detained: but now the whole fleet beginning to stand in need of water, it was agreed to make the best of their wayto Seguataneio or Chequetan, there to take in a supply; and left that the gallon might flip out to sea, taking advantage of their absence, Mr. Hughes, lieutenant of the Tryal's prize, was or tered to cruize off the harbour of Acapulco for twenty-four days in the cutter, that in case the hould let sail, they might be speedily informed thereof april-ar being pretty far advanced towards Che quean, they dispatched two boats to range along the coast, in search of the watering place: as they were absent four or five days, it was a great hap pines, that during that time they had daily supply of turtle; for had they been reduced to their salt provisions, with lo scanty an allowance of water as their present small flock afforded, they muff have suffered considerably in this warm climate. The long absence of their boats began to fill them with many gloomy suggestions, which were at length happily dissipated by their return, with an account of their having met a proper watering-place seven,niiles
miles to the westward of the rocks of Seguataneio, which, by the description they gave, appeared to be the port of Chequetan, mentioned by Dampier. For this place the squadron immediately steered, and came to an anchor the 7th in the evening in eleven fathom water; but the Carmin and Carmeloo having fallen to the leeward, the Tryal prize was dispatched to bring them up, which talk she Ser formed in two or three days. There is a beach of sand extending eighteen leagues from the harbourofAcapulco tother weftward,againft which the sea breaks so violently, that it is impossible for boats to land on any part of it; but there is good anchorage for shipping at a mile or two from the shore, during the fair season. The adjacent land is low, here and there interspersed with small emi fences, whereon are watch-towers; it is well cul treated, covered with pleasant villages, and planted with trees, affording on every side a moil agree able prospect; but it is remarkable, and to my thinking odd, that this diflriE, apparently the roof pleasant, the best cultivated, and the most populous upon the whole coast, should be without the smallest kind of naval craft, either for fishing or amusement; there being neither boat nor canoe to be discerned near it: and as this deficiency cannot arise from the want of convenient landing places, it is not improbable that the government have pro habited their use, to prevent smuggling.,To the westward of this beach lies the bay of Se guataneio or Chequetan, the entrance whereof is very exactly described by Mr. Walter in his account of this voyage, because it is very hard to be traced, and of vast importance to such vessels as cruize in those seas. The watering-place here is a standing lake, derived from a small spring about a mile up, the country; and the part of this lake that lay contiguous to the sea, being a little brackish, Mr,( 3. Anson
Anson ordered his frock of water to be brought from the other extremity, where it was much bet ter tailed. This lake did not appear to have any communication at this time with the sea; and as Dampier speaks of it as a large river, it is very likely that in the rainy season it overflows its banks, and lays the neighbouring country under water, in which situation it was perhaps seen by him from the promising aspen of the country, Mr. A non entertained some hopes of cultivating a cor respondence with the inhabitants, and procuring a store of provisions in exchange for such coarse merchandize as their prizes had afforded, which in his hands were of little worth, but to these people, at his manner of rating them, muff have been ex extremely valuable for this purpose he dispatched a company of forty men well armed into the country, to try if they could find any village: there men having marched about five miles from the harbour, discovered two roads leading east and west, the lat ter whereof they chore; and marched all day, along a beaten track, where they often saw horse and mule dung, but no sign of inhabitants or village. On their entering indeed into a large favann.h,they had sight of a sentinel well mounted, whose horse f acting at the sight of their arms, bore off his Fraser with vast speed, who dropped his hat and pistol in his flight; and though they pursued him for some time, he soon escaped, having the advantage of them by being on horseback. So that at length, being quite wearied out with their fatiguing march, and neither having found water to quench their thirty, nor any other refreshment, they were obliged to halt; and then resolved to return, some cf them having fainted, and being obliged to the shoulders of their stronger comrades for support; however, they prudently erected poles in several,places,
places, to 'which they affixed declarations in Spa nisi, inviting the people to come down to the hips to traffic, assuring them of safeguard and confider able profit; hut this proceeding had not the de sired effect. We should not forget here to observe that if they had pursued the western, instead of the eastern road, they would soon have come up with a Spanifh village, as they were afterwards inform ed, that lay not more than two miles from the turning this disappointment made a sensible impression upon all the people; however, they contented themselves as well as they could with canoes, of which they here found great plenty, and which by some people are reckoned fine food; and large pheasants, the flesh whereof was but indifferent, together with parrots, and Come well tasted birds of a smaller size. Besides the hog-plum, the pa pah, a few small limes, and an ill flavoured, bitter antifcorbut:c herb, called brook-lime, the soil as forded them scarcely a fruit or vegetable. The best that can be said of Chequetan, upon the whole, is, that it is the.moft secure harbour to be met in a vast extent of coast, yielding good flore of wood and water, and at a sufficient distance from Acapulco, to shelter such cruisers as may have designs upon the valuable vessel to which that town Sometimes gives its name. Moreover it i* surrounded by wood, thro' which there is but one narrow pass cut into the country, which may be defended against all the strength the Spaniards can possibly muster, by a very small party; the bay furnishes plenty of fish, among which we may reckon roles, mullets, break: is, cavities, sea eggs., lobsters, fiddle-fil, and the torpedo or numbing fifi, so like the last that we have named, that it is only to be distinguished from it by a brown circular spot upon the center of its back. Whoever,,Q 4 happens
happens to touch this fish, feels an instantaneous numbness diffuse itself through his whole body, but ascribing more particularly the limb that was in contact with it; and the diminution of this numb nets, Mr. Walter, from experience, affirms to be gradual, though some naturalists have assured us that it was sudden ; and though a man toughest with a stick. he will find himself benumbed, as though he had laid his naked hand upon it; so forceful is the excommunications was in this harbour that Lewis Leger, the com moore's cook, wandering into the woods, was ta ken prisoner by some Indians, who carried him to Acapulco, whence he was transmitted to Mexico; and being afterwards sent to Vera-Cruz, was flip pet for Old Spain; but the vessel touching at Lisbon he made his escape to the house of the Bri tiff consul, who procured him a passage to England where he brought the first account of Mr. Anson's safety, which had for some time been a doubtful point. This man-being a French Roman catholic, was first thought to have deserted to the enemy with such intelligence as he could collect; a suspicion that in the end appeared to beAery ill grounded; he was afterwards killed in a trifling quarrel, in a night-house in London. He had been severely used in his captivity, having been stripped stark naked, exposed to the scorching heat of the fun, which was almost intolerable, all the way from Che quean to Acapulco; and the ill treatment he met with in a prison at Mexico, wherein he was kept closely confined, manifested the vast hatred the Spaniards harbour against all people who seek to disturb their quiet in the South Seas.,Altho' the enemy never appeared in sight during Mr. Anson's stay here, it was evident from different volumes of smoke, that large parties of them were encamped in the woods on every side of the har-,bour.
hour. Mr. Brett indeed, in once coasting round it in a boat, accompanied only by sixteen men, saw three squadrons of horse well armed and accoutred one of which formed upon the beach to which he made, as if.to dispute his landing, firing at him several distant sots; but no sooner had Mr. Brett come near enough to bring his arms to bear upon them, but this gallant cavalry fled upon the first volley; one of the men that composed it fal ling, together with his horse, both or one of which' being perhaps wounded, the other two squadrons kept aloof, and never moved to assist their companion though they amounted to near two hundred, and were opposed only by sixteen men.,It now appearing upon a scrutiny, that they had not more hands than were necessary to man a fourth rate man of war; Mr. Anson, with the consent of his officers, resolved to scuttle and def troy the Tryal's prize, the Carmeloo, and the Car min, and to divide the richest part of their cargoes and their crews between the Centurion and Gloucester which was accordingly done on the 28th' of April, when the remaining ships of the squadron warped out of the harbour; leaving behind them a' letter corked up in a bottle, and placed in a canoe' fixed to a gradual in the middle of the harbour, acquainting Mr. Hughes, to whom it was directed that the commodore was returned tu his station off Acapulco; that he intended to quit it in a few days,. and return to the rest of his squadron, which con tinged cruising to the southward. This hist article was inserted to deceive the Spaniards,. in case, as it afterwards happened, the canoe hould fall, into their hands ; as for Mr. Hughes, he knew the com moore had no squadron to join, nor yet any design of fleering back to Peru; so that it could have had' no effect upon him. The stormy season now coming on, and it appearing plainly that the voy-,Q 05~ age
age of the Acapulco ships was laid aside for this year, Mr. Anson having no farther business in the American seas, resolved to fleer for China, after having picked up his cutter, in search of which, he tb no purpose cruised all along the coast, ad. dancing even within three leagues of Acapulco, a town which he had formerly designed to have storm. ed; but was dissuaded therefrom by a consideration of his own weakness, and a comparative view of the strength and fortifications of the place. It was now May the 22d, when not having the least sign of Mr. Hughes or of the cutter, Mr. Anson imagined it might have been taken and carried into Acapulco; a loss which the commodore could not at this time rightly put up with, there being on board her some of the stoutest fellows that remained alive between the ships. Therefore taking the cap ture of them as a certainty, he wrote a very polite letter to the governor of Acapulco, requesting him to deliver them up. and in return, promising to re lease ail the Spanish prisoners now in his hands: among whom were some people of figure. This letter was lent off in a launch in the care of a Spa nisi officer, of whom the commodore had a good opinion, and who was conducted by six other prisoners who gave their parole for their return. The governor of Acapulco returned a polite answer to the commodore's message, and sent him also two boats loaded with refreshments; but these never reached him, for before their setting out, the cut ter happily came on board with the men almost starved, and scarcely able to stand; they were all straight put to bed, supplied with food from the commodore's table, and being otherwise taken proper care of, soon recovered their strength. It seems that, having finished their cruize before Acapulco, they plied to the westward in order to join the squadron, but were driven to the eastward by a strong cur-trent,
rent, wherewith they found it in vain to contend; and now their water being expended, they endeavoured to find out a convenient landing-place, where they might get a supply, but to no purpose, there being so large a surf for near eighty leagues, that they ran to leeward, and there was not the least possibility of their making the Shore. The blood of the turtle that they caught upon the wa ter, was for some days their only refreshment; and now beginning to despair of relief, there fell a violent shower of rain, the water of which being catched in their sails, spread horizontally, with bullets placed in their center to draw them to a point, filled all their casks, and meeting almoRl at the same time a firing current in their favour, they joined the commodore in fifty hours, after an ab fence of forty-three days ; a junction which must appear very surprizing to those who consider the many dangers that muff certainly'attend-upon an open boat only twenty-two feet long, upon so ter rible a coast, and such a tempestuous sea, during a six weeks cruize.,The commodore having now no farther business here, discharged all his prisoners, rome few flout negroes excepted i they amounted to fifty-seven, and were furnished with two launches well equip pet with masts, sails, and oars; and stocked with provision for fourteen days. They all came safely to Acapulco, where they talked loudly of Mr. An son's politeness and humanity. May the 6th, the Centurion and Gloucester lost sight of the high mountains of Mexico, bound to the river Canton, where they hoped soon to enjoy the society of some of their countrymen, and the advantages of a-port fraught with every conveniency, and inhabited by an amicable polished people.,6C H A P.
C H A P. VII. The Centurion and Gloucester both much damaged;,the latter is destroyed; the former makes the La. drones; anchors at Tinian; the Centurion drove out ts sea, but happily gets back; fails to China and refits; she puts out to sea, and takes the Manila galon ; carries her to China; various occurrences t'-l1 the quitting that coast ; Mr. Anson's happy ar .rirul at Spithead.,HE Centurion and the Gloucester being once again out at sea, flood over to the south-west, in hope of soon gaining the thirteenth or fourteenth degree of north latitude, a parallel in which the Pacific ocean is oftener crossed, as affording the safes navigation; they had also another view in this track, which was that of coming up with the trade wind at north-east but though they soon gained their first point, the latter was an expectation wherein they were entirely baffled by bad weather 2nd contrary wind. It was the latter end of June before they fell in with the trade wind: at which time they had been seven weeks at sea, yet not made above one fourth of their run, though if was com mon to make the whole in less than two months. July the 26th, being then about three hundred leagues from the Ladroness, the wind came about to the xwefi, and by continuing in that point four days, considerably retarded their progress; and in a few days after the Gloucester began to grow more crazy than ever; fie had been one continued plague to the crew of the Centurion as well as her townspeople,
people, ever since they had quitted Chequetan, and now besides bringingher fore-topmast and main-tops maR by the board, the had seven feet water in the hold; it blew a hurricane from the west, and the Centurion herself at the same time sprung a leak, which required all the attendance both of officers and men to cure; so that they could afford but little assistance to their mate. However, she sent her boat on board, which soon returned with a remonstrance signed by captain Mitchel and all his officers setting forth that the flip's leaks were irreparable that they had no spare mails to hoist in room of those that were destroyed; that the was quite decayed in many places; that her" knees and clamps were loose; and her upper works so crazy that the quarter-deck was ready to drop down; that her crew were reduced to ninety-five men, in eluding officers, and eighteen boys, besides two prisoners and that out of there only sixteen men and eleven boys were able to keep the deck, nor yet were these in the belftl ate of health; moreover their fresh water and provisions were covered over by the sea-water pouring in To fall upon them below deck, there was no coming at refreshment. As it was a little calm, the commodore ordered them a boat load of water and provisions, and at the same time desired his own men to examine into the truth of the Rate of her case, which they reporting not to have been at all exaggerated, the'commo- dore gave orders that captain Mitchel Should send all his hands on board the Centurion; and having saved what sores he was able, to destroy her. In about two days they discharged her of such stores as they could most easily arrive at, and it was with difficulty they saved the money she had taken in the South-seas; but most of the prize goods, whichever
were very valuable, and belonged to the Centurion, were forced to be abandoned; of her provisions only five casks of flour could-be preserved, three of which were damaged by the salt-water: and though the Gloucester's tick men, amounting to ses vent, were put on board the Centurion with as much care and tenderness as circumstances could admit, three or four of them expired in the very action of being hoisted up. AuguR the Isti hav. ing taken out of her every thing proposed, (he was set on fire, and continued burning all night, the fames gaining upon her gradually. and her nuns going off one by one, till at length about one o'clock in the morning, (he blew up with a snail report, four leagues a-head of the Centurion, and a black pillar of smoke arising from the blast, shot up to a considerable height in the air thus was Mr. Anson reduced to ownership, where with he hoped to have some better success than he had lately found, being no longer clogged with any embarrassments that might contribute to his deity. In two or three days after the Gloucester w.s burned, the carpenter luckily found the Centurion's leak, which he could not absolutely flop without getting at the outside of the flip; a task at present impossible: however, he patched it up pretty tell; it was und-r the breast-hook on each side of the shem, in the gunner's fore shore room. August the 23d they discovered two snares to the westward, and soon after a third; a sight whence they deriv ed fresh spirits, as they stood in wait need of repair. The boat was dispatched to one of them, which returned with an account that they could find no anchoring ground for (hips; that they had been on tore, where they saw abundance of coconut trees, but neither water nor inhabitants they,also
PhZRIC Â·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . VciL~~~~~~~s s he,24,-iB7;~Fi~ondon~~ 47i iii,in~ ~~~~~Siin Â£~.asÂ·sz ,60 CE PA - a~~~~lr
also added, that it was not without Come danger they had landed, the beech being steep, and the swell running very hight his account gave them but a very gloomy prof peat, the scurvy which bad attended them for three months past with as much virulence as ever, making a prodigious havock on board, while the fatigue of the officers and men, who laboured hard at the pump, because of the leak, became almost in supportable. They now flood from the islands of Annatacan,- Perpignan, and Hazards, for these were the names of the three we have just now noticed, hoping to fall in with some of the Ladroness, which they knew could afford them sufficient accommoda tion; but for the making of-them they were obliged to truss almost entirely to chance; there be ing no body on board who had any certain know ledge of their identity. August the 26th they made three other islands, bearing about fourteen leagues distant; these they afterwards found to be Saypan, Tinian, and Aguignan. They immediately.fleered for the middlemost of the three, hoisting Spanish colours, with a red flag at the fore-topmast head, in hope that by palling for the Manila galley they might be able to decoy Come of the inhabitants on board, from whom they might receive some intelligence relative to the place, according to which they might deport themselves. And now standing for the land, under this appearance, the cutter was dispatched to find out a proper birth for the flip, which .soon sent on board a Spaniard and four In diana, which she had seized in a proa, coming off shore, to meet the Centurion, mistaking her for the Manila gallon. The Spaniard was immediately examined as to the condition and pro duds of Tinian, and his answers exceeded theirs - warmed:
warmest hopes. He assured them that there were no inhabitants on the island, except twenty-two Indians, who were there occasionally jerking beef, which, when loaded on board a small bark of fifteen tons burthen, then lying at anchor near shore, was to be sent to the garrison of Guam, whereof he was a serjeant; he also reported, that the island abounded with coco-nuts, lemons, limes, oranges, sweet and four together, with various other fruits, particularly the bread-fruit *, that hogs, poultry, and black cattle, ran wild upon it; that the soil was rich, plentifully and beautifully watered, and the air good.,As they came closer in with the land, the prof pet thereof indicated, if possible, something de liable, even beyond the serjeant's description; it wore rather the air of an elegant plantation than an uninhabited island: the verdant lawns, the sloping hills, the purling firearms, and tall aspiring trees, looked like the disposition of art and ingenuity, and had an effet agreeably surprising. The commodore having ordered the pinnace and cutter ashore, with some men well-armed to seize the bark, and, if possible the Indians, ordered the anchor to be let go in twenty-two fathom, and the flip to lie by for that night with her sails furled, that her hands might gain rome repose; for out of one thousand men he had brought from England, he could mutter but seventy-one, and those too Co weak and infirm, they were scarce able to stand to a gun. This di mention of their number was owing to the havock made amongst them by the scurvy, which had raged terribly on board ever since they left Chequetan, all,* See a description of the bread fruit in the eth page of the sith volume of these voyages.,4 the
the surgeon's efforts to flop its progress being in effectual; ?nor know we to what to attribute its pre valence, as the whole ship's crew were during the whole run, plentifully supplied with fresh provisions and good water, but to the apt disposition of the blood, already broken with fatigue and disorder, to inferior, and by remembering that the fleam of the ocean, When corrected by no terrestrial particles, en courages it prodigiously and this latter is confirm ed by the land-air soon restoring to health those whose constitutions are not entirely decayed. In the morning a large party of men were sent on shore to erect tents, and prepare quarters for the lick; the former was a piece of trouble that the In diana had Caved them, by building huts for their own shelter, the largest whereof being twenty feet long and fifteen broad, was immediately fitted up as an hospital, to which the sick, amounting to one hundred and eighty-one, were brought with all. possible expedition; and most of these were soon recovered by the salubrity of the climate, and the produces of the island, happily adapted to re store the sick.,Tinian lies in fifteen degrees eight minutes north latitude; it is one of the Ladroness, which, reck one altogether, great and small, are about twenty in number. It abounds with herds of cattle, which are milk-white, their ears excepted which are black; they may be easily run down, and To catched with out expence of powder and Shot: here are wild hogs, which must be baited by dogs; they make a good battle, but the noise made by the various sorts of domestic poultry, which are delicious food, gives the place vastly the air of an inhabited farm. It is certain that this island was formerly well peopled, but a contagious sickness having swept,away
away almost all the inhabitants of Guam, Rats, and Tinian, the Spaniards forced those who fur. lived on the two last, to remove to the firs, where they had fixed their principal government; but few of them outlived the change .sin many parts of Tinian are found a particular kind of ruins, being pyramidical pillars disposed in two rows: their height is thirteen feet, and their bae five feet square; on the top of each pillar is a solid semi-globe with the flat surface upwards; these pillars are a cement of brick and sand plastered over, placed at six feet distance one from'the other; there being a space of twelve feet be tween each row. These are the remains of build kings formerly adapted to religious uses, according to the report of the four Indian prisoners. Large flights of ducks, curlew, and the whiffling plover, were seen about two or three pieces of fine slanting water, that contribute greatly to the beauty of the landscape. The soil in general is dry and sandy, yielding plenty of fine fruit and wholesome vegetative and not disposed to push out rank luxuriant weeds; wherefore the turf is generally smooth and uniform, and the woods not being choaked with brambles, present many moi delightful viflos.,The climate is frequently refreshed with Short light showers, and the wholesome :breezes which continually fan the air, sharpens the stomach in such a manner, that the Centurion's people found themselves enabled, nay, necessitated to eat three times more than usual, nor yet were they disordered by the repletion the greatest inconvenience of there islands, were the number of mulattoes and other small flies, which were very incommoding, but more particularly an inset called the tick, which darting its he:d,under
under the skin of him whom it assails, raises a most painful inflammation. The anchoring place, for there iscbut one, lies on the south-west side of the island ; nor does it afford shelter sufficient aai'nft the western monsoons, when about the full arid change of the moon, for then the wind veering to every point of the compass, blows with fuchimpetuofity that the stoutest cables are not proof against its force; and this was sufficiently experienced by the Centurion, which, notwithstanding all the care that had been taken to make her fast, was forced from her anchors and drove out to sea, with such of the men as had well recovered, under the command of lieutenant Saumerez; the commodore, who-was him self sick of the scurvy, being at that time a-shore, together with one hundred and thirteen of his people. It was very well that her leak had been searched out, and in some measure stopped before this accident happened, or the consequences might have been much more than they proved to be. This misfortune fell out upon the 22d of September, in a night of excessive darkness, the flip having her sheet-anchor hanging at one of her cables, her shrouds loose, her top-mass un.rigged, her fore and main yards down, and not a gun lashed on board, nor a port-hole barred in. 'She laboured for nine teen days before she could regain her birth, of which she entirely despaired, having only one hun died and eight of her hands on board, negroes and Indians included. The grief of the men she left ashore is inexpressible; however, giving her up for loss, they set about enlarging the Spanish bark, de* training in her to fleer for Macao. This resolution was put in their heads by the commodore, who worked as hard in endeavouring to fit out this little vessel as the meanest of his men. However, on the With of October, Mr. Gordon a lieutenant of ma lines, brought them a reprieve from their fatiguing,labour,
labour, by being the first to tell them that the flip Was once again in sight. This news being soon confirmed by her appearing in the offing, a boat with eighteen hands, and a large quantity of re refreshments, was immediately sent off to her assist. ance, and the following afternoon the was happily brought to safe anchorage in the road, where the commodore now determined to slay no longer than was necessary to compleat their flock of water. On the i th she was drove out to sea again, leaving about seventy of her hands a-sore; however, the made the island again on the Igth, when all hands being ordered on board, with such a supply of water, fruits, and refreshments as they could suddenly collet, they got under sail, fleering for Ma. cao in China.,It was now the 21ft of October, and the eastern monsoon being fettled, and blowing right austen, they went at the rate of forty or fifty leagues a day; though as the (hip worked greatly, and her leaks required that the pumps should be kept constantly going, the people were very much fatigued; never theseus they made no complaint, being in pretty g.-od health. November the 9th they made the main land of China, and not rightly knowing their course, lay by for that'night, and in.the morning were agreeably surprized to find themselves fur rounded by fishing boats, which spread over the sea beyond the utmost stretch of the eye; and tho' there were three or five men on board every ones them, the commodore could not by signs, by pro bouncing the word Macao, nor by shewing a quantity of dollars, induce any one of them to come on board and pilot him; for the inattention they seemed to pay to every thing but their employment is almost incredible.,On the 16th, Mr. Anson perceiving a boat a head blow a horn and wave a red flag, looked upon it asa
a signal of some sort intended for him; but in this he found himfelfmiftaken, it being a signal displayed by the commodore of the fishery, to order all the boats to leave fishing and retire to shore, which they all obeyed quickly. It was a little vexatious to them not to be able to get a pilot amadis so many naval people; however, they continued their course thro' many guts formed by small islands and little rocks, following the best intrusions of former na visitors, for there was no body in' the Centurion who knew any thing of the coast. About four in the morning of the 9th, a Chinese pilot put on board, and told them, in broken Portuguese, that for thirty dollars he would carry the flip into Ma cao; which being paid him, they proceeded in their course: and now as they went pilots encreased upon them, soliciting employment, and producing certificates 9f their abilities, signed by many European captains. About ten o'clock in the morning of the 12th they came to the harbour of Macao, a small island lying at the mouth of the river Canton, in the hands of the Portuguese, who have a governor here, Co very trifling in estimation that he is subservient entirely to the mandarine, or neighbouring Chinese governor, who sends him and his garrison their daily allowance of provision; so that upon the lead dislike it is in the power of this superintendent to starve and dispossess them. Mr. Anson being de terminer to support the honour of the British flag, was refolved.not to submit to the payment of the duties exalted by the Chinese from trading vessels; rien of war having immunities of that nature in every civilized port. For this reason the Portuguese governor of Macao advised him not to enter the river Canton, where the usual demand would certainly be made upon him, but rather to heave down and careen at Typa, an obscure but safe harbour, formed by a number of islands, about six miles from,Macao:
Macao: and if Mr. Anson readily acquiesced to this instruction, it was because he feared involving the European ships in the dispute that must have certainly arisen from his-refusing to comply with this custom, which it was probable would never be demanded of him at Typa. His tenderness for the merchants led him to consult with them the manner in which it was necessary for him to address the viceroy of Canton, for a supply of provisions and hands to assist him in heaving down his flip. They referred him to some Chinese agents, who, after having cajoled him from day to day with pro mises of laying the slate of his account before the viceroy, and fettling matters in his favour, at length, when he had lost more than a month in expedition they fairly threw off the mask, and being pressed, declared they neither would address the viceroy, nor did they dare to do it, he being too great a man for them to pretend to approach. He now perceived too late that he had been wrong in consulting so much the interest of the East India company, and immediately wrote a letter to the viceroy, setting forth that he was commander in chief of a squadron of British ships of war which had been cruising upon the Spaniards, with whom the king his mailer was at variance, in the South Seas, upwards of two years; that his flip was obliged to put in here to flop a leak, and supply herself with provisions and necessaries; in all which wants he craved his excellency's afliftance.,The hippo, or chief officer of the customs, at first refused to take charge of this letter; but find ing that the commodore was determined upon send ing it, and resented the refusal, he begged to be en trusted with it; and in a day or two after, a man daring of the first rank, with two of an inferior class, came alongside of the Centurion, with a very numerous train of attendants and a good band of,mljfic.
music. The Centurion's boat was sent to bring the principal mandarine on board. He was governor of the city of Hanson, and to all appearance a man of good sense and more integrity than the Chinese are generally allowed to be. He brought with him tno carpenters, who examined the slate of the flip very carefully, but were particularly exact in view ing the leak. He appeared much surprized at the weight and size of the Centurion's cannon, for a flip of such force was perhaps what had never been seen in this part of the world before; nor did Mr; Anson negl'eE to make a proper use of his admira tion, which it was plain was not without its mixture of terror. He expatiated upon the strength of his vessel, and observed that there could not be a stronger indication of his mildness than his thus civilly re quelling such necessaries as he flood in need of, when it was plain that he was sufficiently powerful to have taken them by force: at the same time he de sired that orders might be given for a daily supply of provision to be put on board him, otherwise his men might be reduced to the necessity of turning cannibal!, and feeding on human flehb; an ex trinity in which they certainly would prefer the plump Chinese to the flesh of-their own ema- ciated'meflinates. This discourse had its desired effet; the mandarine allowed the truth of every thing Mr. Anson advanced, promised he (hould laye every necessary assistance as soon as the slate of his circumstances had been considered by a council of mandarines at Canton, which being but matter of form, should be done directly: in the mean time he ordered one of his attendants to see a certain quant city of provisions, specified in writing by Mr. Anson, put every day on board the Centurion; and this in union was exactly complied with. Preliminaries being properly adjusted, the commodore gave them,an
an entertainment, at which they made but an auk. ward figure, not knowing in what manner to use the knives and forks that were laid before them; so that to ease them, one of the commodore's attend. ants cut their meat for them in bits. They ex pressed a strong dislike to bees, which was one of the dies, founded perhaps upon a superstition that prevails much among the pagans of India. How ever they might flinch at the meat, which they did not seem greatly to relics, they stuck close to the liquor; and the mandarine, having helped to dis. patch four or five bottles of Frontenac and one of citron-water, departed without teeming in the leaf affected therewith, having received a handsome pre sent, as is the culrom of China. Several days elapse. ed after this conference, without its producing any effect whatsoever; however, the commodore un. understood that this delay was occasioned by the in tribes of a Frenchman, who endeavoured under hand to postpone as much as possible Mr. Anson's affairs, fearing that in case the Centurion should be allowed any particular distinction, as bearing the king of Great Britain's commission, the French traders would lose part of their consideration, having always pretended to be ships of war.,At length, on the 6th of January, after great debates in the council of Canton, the governor of Hanson sent down the viceroy of Canton's warrant for resitting the Centurion, and supplying all her wants; in consequence of which warrant several smiths and carpenters immediately came on board to offer their service: of each a sufficient number was immediately retained, none of whom could be persuaded to work by the day; but the carpenters agreed to do every thing that was wanting to the Ih p, and to set her all to rights, for six hundred pounds; at first they had demanded a thousand:,the
the faiths also bargained to furnish small iron work at three .pounds per hundred, and the large at two pounds six and six-pence. Two proper vessels, called junks in this country, having been provided for that purpose, the Flip was immediately hove down; and as the Chinese work but slowly, tho' with great ingenuity and certainty, it was the be. ginning of April before (he was fitted for sea; during which time the Chinese pressed her departure very much, teeming to care very little for such a powerful company; powerful in appearance to wretches who are naturally poor spirited and timid, yet in reality very far from being so when the weakness of the Flip's company is considered, tho' it was there reinforced with twenty-three Lascars, or Indian sailors, and a few Dutch, to the amount of twenty-three.,April the 6th, the Centurion weighed from Typa, warping to the south; on the Isti the got into the Macao road, taking in her water as [he passed along; and on the seth, all her business be ing compleated, she flood out to sea. The people of Canton and Macao firmly believing Mr. Anson would endeavour to make Batavia, and thence proceed to England, in spite of the western monsoon, which was set in. By this insinuation his real design was kept concealed, which was to cruize off the Philippine Islands for the Manila gallon, it generally touching in the month of June at Cape Spirituu Santo, on the island of Samal, that being the first land it makes; and there being great probability that there would this year be two Manila (hips instead of one, the news-of the Centurion being upon the coast having hindred the Flip of the preceding year from mak ing her voyage. When they were out of sight of land, the commodore ordered all his people upon the quarter deck, and unfolded his intention to them in a short pathetic speech, which had a vast,VOL. VII. R effect,
effet, and persuaded them so strongly that the ga. leon would become their prize, that when the con. rodore enquired of the butcher why he had seen no mutton at his table for some days pass, the fellow seriously answered, There were but two sheep alive, and he hoped his honour would not be angry, if he kept those to entertain the general of the galeon.,It was the last day of May new stile before they came in sight of Cape Spirituu Santo, where they continued to cruize till the 20th of June old file, when the vessel which they had so long expected came in sight about sun-rise, having the standard of Spain flying at the top-gallant-maft head, and to the commodore's great surprize She bore down upon as if resolved to engage him, which he had not expected. The engagement began soon after, and lasted near an hour and an half, when the gallon struck her colours, having had sixty-seven men killed in the action, and eighty-four wounded; among whom was the general or admiral Don Geronimo kde Montero, a Portuguese gentleman, who acted with great bravery, and almost wept for shame when he discovered the insignificant force that had subdued him. On board the Centurion two men were killed, and seventeen, among whom was a lieutenant, wounded. The great slaughter on board the gallon was chiefly owing to thirty choice fellows who were distributed among the tops before the engagement with small arms; and most of them having been long practising how to shoot at marks, did some execution with every shot they fired. Mr. Anson himself was every where present in the engagement, acting with his usual spirit and recollection and the honourable Mr. Kepple attended to distribute his orders between decks with great refo- lution.,This prize was named Nostra Signora de Cabadon- ga; the carriedfivehundredandfiftymen, had thirty-six
six guns mounted for action, betides twenty-eight parterres, each of which was adapted tobear a four pound ball: her cargo was worth four hundred thousand pounds sterling. The other gallon had failed much sooner than usual, and very probably had reached Manila long before the Centurion ar rived off Cape Spirituu Santo. The commodore immediately appointed his prize a post flip in his majesty's service, under the command of Mr. Saul mares, first lieutenant of the Centurion; and hav ing taken proper measures for securing the prisoners, which were double his number of men, he steered back for the river of Canton, and on the I2th of July came to anchor once more off the city of Macao Soon after their arrival here they were visited by a. customhouse officer; who upon taking an inventory of the guns, ammunition, and men on board,. seemed wally surprized at the mention of four hun. died firelock and near as many barrels of powder, adding that he dared not set down such force, left the regency should be alarmed, for that no ships so, armed had ever entered China before.,A few days being elapsed, in which Mr. Anson brought his (hips farther up the river, he dispatched his second lieutenant to Canton, with a letter to the viceroy, requesting a proper supply of provisions, and proposing to pay his excellency a visit. A message in answer to this letter, was brought by three mandarines, granting the necessary supply of provisions; entreating him to postpone his visit till the weather should become more moderate; and requesting as a favour that the Spanish prisoners should be set at liberty; left the emperor, coming to, the knowledge of his allies being in confinement, in his dominions, should resent it; and at the same, time observing that a compliance with this requests would be considered as great favour conferred up o. his excellency,. 2 r.
Mr. Anon contented to restore them to their If', betty, after some hesitation, made on purpose to enhance the obligation; but when the mandarines came to talk of the duties usually paid by (hips, Mr. Anson cut them short, by positively-declaring that he would not submit to pay any, this ord. dance relating only to trading vessels; and as he neither intended to buy or fell, he did not imagine the emperor's orders could possibly affect him, The prisoners were soon after put on board two junks sent from Canton for that purpose ; and the report they made. of the humanity of Mr. Anson, who was glad to get rid of them, wrought-very powerfully in his favour among the Chinese. It would be an endless talk should we undertake to enumerate the many artifices, frauds and extortions praised by this interested race upon the commo. dore and his people, from his coming into the river Canton in July to the i3th of October, when being disappointed of a quantity of biscuit, and other pro visions that had been promised him, as well as amused with numberless false stories, he determined in person to visit the viceroy at his capital, taking such effeiuai measures for securing the Centurion and her vail wealth from the machinations of these treacherous and lucrative people, that they did not dare, during his absence, to contrive any thing that could tend to his disturbance leaving captain Brett to command the-vessel, he embarked on board his owl boat for Canton, rowed by eighteen of his hands dressed uniformly in scarlet jackets, blue silk waistcoats, caps of the same fiufftrimmed with silver buttons, and silver badges: he was attended by the supercargoes of the English Swedish and Danish ships, and, betides his own, the boats of all the trading vessels; so that his retinue had a-very grand appearance. In his passage he was saluted by all the European slips then lying ia,WVapol
Campo., their ufÂ°al place of mooring, the French' excepted. Mr. Anson had not been long at Canton before he saw his bread and other provisions, for which he had bargained and paid indeed before hand, in great forwardness; and as he was upon ths spot, took proper measures for obviating the delays which the contractors would otherwise have made. While he remained in this city a fire broke out, which would have certainly proved the destruction of the whole place, had not Mr. Anson's men ex erred themselves greatly in suppressing, and at length extinguished it; for which service he received the thanks of the chief merchants and principal people of Canton. The aukwardness and ignorance of the Chinese in their endeavours tout it out is-very surprising, if we consider the vast character given of their ingenuity, wit and abilities by the jesuits; a character to which they are very unequal, ac cording to the accounts we have of this expedition november 30 being-at length appointed for Mr. Anson's visit to the viceroy, he was attended from the outer gate of the city to the parade before the imperial palace wherein the viceroy resided, by a guard of two hundred soldiers; and in the parade he found a body of at least one thousand men under arms, newly cloathed upon this occasion. The reception the commodore met with was very polite: a seat was appointed for him near the viceroy's own person, who thanked him for the assistance his people had afforded at the fire, granted the order for putting his provisions on board, and did not once mention a words the duties exacted usually from ships. This conference gave the commodore vast satisfaction; so that his provisions being now ready to be supplied, and the licence for that pur pole obtained, he had nothing to detain him longer in China, except the sale of his prize, which he disposed of to some merchants at Macao for six thousand',dollars,/
dollars, which was a prodigious cheap price-but. the purchasers knew that he wanted to get out to-ea, and therefore took the advantage of his pressing :.tuatica; it being his intention to reach Europe if possible before any ships could carry thither the news of his having taken the Acapulco flip, and the enemy thereupon be prepared to deprive him of her vast wealth.,He got under sail on the i5th of October, I743, bound to England: on the I th of March he came to anchor in the Table Bay of the Cape; and the 5 th of June, 1744, came safely to anchor at Spit. Lead, having, under cover of a thick fog, passed. through a French fleet then cruising in the chops of the Channel. Thus, after a series of adventures which continued three years and nine months, ia. which Mr. Anson experienced many strokes of ad verse fortune, and was more than once to all ap appearance ruined and undone, did this expedition happily include; having damaged the crown of Spain to the amount of more than a million sterling, if we conclude the destruction of Pizarro's squadron, which was certainly owing to its having been fitted out as a spy upon the motions of our gallant, and at length fortunate, commander: and it may be truly said, had his spirit of prudence and intrepidity, his love of glory and his country, influenced the com manners of several other expeditions in our late war with Spain; Great Britain's sovereignty over the sea had been more universally acknowledged, and her triumphant flags waved over many an' hostile territory in America that now haughtily frowns defiance on her arms. 4 i,rI N I :C.
Â¶R I P9 6 >~ .-I- I>-,/i,'~~-~~ liz~a. ~,a ~ir9laÃ³
