DAMPIER

The weather at Mindanao is temperate enough as to heat for all it lies so near the Equator; and especially on the borders near the sea.

I have also seen them in Virginia and in the Bay of Campeachy; in the latter of which places the worms eat prodigiously.

The South-Coast of Mindanao. Chambongo Town and Harbour, with its neighbouring Keys. Green Turtle. Ruins of a Spanish Fort. The Westermost-point of Mindanao. Two Proes of the Sologues laden from Manila. An Isle to the West of Sebo. Walking-Canes. Isle of Batts, very large; and numerous Turtle and Manatee. A dangerous Shoal. They sail by Panay belonging to the Spaniards, and others of the Philippine Islands. Isle of Mindora.

The most remarkable land at sea is a high mountain, steep to the sea, with a flat even top, which is called the Table Land. On the west side of the Cape, a little to the northward of it, there is a spacious harbour with a low flat island lying off it, which you may leave on either hand and pass in or out securely at either end.

We jogged on after this with a gentle gale towards Gorgona, an island lying about 25 leagues from the island Gallo. The 9th day we anchored at Gorgona, on the west side of the island in 38 fathom clean ground, not two cables' length from the shore.

PYRATES

Thus narrowly escaped, they sailed for _Newfoundland_, and arrived upon the
Banks the latter end of _June_, 1720. They entered the Harbour of
_Trepassi_, with their black Colours flying, Drums beating, and Trumpets
sounding.

C_Harles Vane_ was one of those who stole away the Silver which the
_Spaniards_ had fished up from the Wrecks of the Galleons, in the Gulph of
_Florida_, and was at _Providence_ (as has been before hinted) when
Governor _Rogers_ arrived there with two Men of War.

R_Omantick Reports of his Greatness_, 45, 46. _His Birth_, 46. _Is
Mate of a_ Bristol _Man_, 47, _For what Voyage design'd_, ib. _Tampers with
the Seamen_, ib. _Forms a Plot for carrying off the Ship_, 47, 48.
_Executes it, and how_, ib. _The Pyrates take a rich Ship belonging to the_
Great Mogul, 50. _The_ Great Mogul _threaten the_ English _Settlements_,
51. _The Pyrates steer their Course back for_ Madagascar, 52. _Call a
Council. Put all the Treasure on Board of_ Avery'_s Ship_, ib. Avery _and
his Crew treacherously leaves his Confederates; go to the Isle of_
Providence _in the_ West-Indies, 53. _Sell the Ship, go to_ North-America
_in a Sloop_, 54. _They disperse_, Avery _goes to_ New-England, ib. _From
thence to_ Ireland, ib. Avery _afraid to expose his Diamonds to sale. Goes
over to_ England, ib. _Puts his Wealth into Merchants Hands, of_ Bristol,
55.

_Cæsar_ went strait to Rome, where, being engaged in the Designs of his own
private Ambition, as were almost all the leading Men in Rome, the Pyrates
who were left, had Time to increase to a prodigious Strength; for while the
civil Wars lasted, the Seas were left unguarded, so that _Plutarch_ tells
us, that they erected diverse Arsenals full of all manner of warlike
Stores, made commodious Harbours, set up Watch-Towers and Beacons all along
the Coasts of _Cilicia_; that they had a mighty Fleet, well equipp'd and
furnish'd, with Galliots of Oars, mann'd, not only with Men of desperate
Courage, but also with expert Pilots and Mariners; they had their Ships of
Force, and light Pinnaces for cruising and making Discoveries, in all no
less than a thousand Sail; so gloriously set out, that they were as much to
be envied for their gallant Shew, as fear'd for their Force; having the
Stern and Quarters all gilded with Gold and their Oars plated with Silver,
as well as purple Sails; as if their greatest Delight had been to glory in
their Iniquity.

Provisions were very scarce, and they now resolved to visit their good
Friends the _Dutch_, at _Cochin_, who, if you will believe these Rogues,
never fail of supplying Gentlemen of their Profession.

SMOLLETT,CARTHAGENA

A further Motive, perhaps might be of Weight with some of the Members,
_viz._ the Admiral's vehemently pressing the Attack "without a Breach,"
and his insisting that it was scarcely possible to miscarry in the
Attempt.

No Time having been lost in preparing to put to Sea; _January_ the 22d,
Sir _Chaloner Ogle_ sailed with his Division out of _Port-Royal_
Harbour; Commodore _Lestock_ the 26th, and Vice-Admiral _Vernon_ the
28th: The three Squadrons, having join'd _January_ the 31st, made Cape
_Tiberon_, on the Coast of _Hispaniola_, _February_ the 7th; the same
Day Captain _Dandridge_ came into the Fleet.

There were kill'd at the Attack of Fort St. _Lazar_ 179, (commissioned,
Non-commissioned Officers and Soldiers) and 459 wounded, of whom many
afterwards died; 16 were taken Prisoners, of which all (excepting six)
had fallen wounded on the Top of the Hill; amongst whom were three
Officers, who, tho' treated by the _Spaniards_ with great Humanity, died
in two or three Days.

ANSON

By the
12th of June they got sight of the Lizard, and the 15th, in the
evening, to their infinite joy, they came safe to an anchor at
Spithead.

In the infancy of this trade it was carried on from the port of Callao
to the city of Manila, in which navigation the trade-wind continually
favoured them; so that notwithstanding these places were distant
between three and four thousand leagues, yet the voyage was often made
in little more than two months.

By the death of Magellan, his original project of securing some of the
Spice Islands was defeated; for those who were left in command
contented themselves with ranging through them, and purchasing some
spices from the natives, after which they returned home round the Cape
of Good Hope, being the first ships which had ever surrounded this
terraqueous globe, and thereby demonstrated, by a palpable experiment
obvious to the grossest and most vulgar capacity, the reality of its
long-disputed spherical figure.

V.  Our Cruise from the time of our leaving Juan Fernandes to the
taking of the Town of Paita

This suspicion was the more
plausible as we had no draught of either island that could be relied
on: and therefore Mr. Anson determined to send the _Tryal_ sloop
thither, as soon as she could be fitted for the sea, in order to
examine all its bays and creeks, that we might be satisfied whether any
of our missing ships were there or not.

GREEN

Chap. X. The Voyage of Captain David Middleton to Java and Banda, in 1609 ; being the Jfth
Voyage set forth by the Company. Extracted from a Letter written by himself to the Merchants.

They
called this Point, Cabo del Relate , or Cape of ' Ca |, 0 de j ,
Ransom , because some Blacks were ransomed there.

But the Arabs and Persians call the Me Gerun, from a Fisherman, who lived on it when Ayaz nest landed therein
two hundred Years it throve so fall, as to extend its Dominion over great Part of Arabia, much of persia,
and all the Gulf as far as Bafrah.

At al Kaffir , they did the same as had been
done at Shaken. Crossing over to Tor, or al Tur ,
they took some Vessels of the Enemy.

CeafiofG however sailing between the Coast of Africa
and Cape Verde Islands, without seeing Land,
they arrived at length on the Coast of Guinea', in
which Parts the Portuguese suffer so much by
Heats and Calms, that they think themselves
happy when they have palled it: For sometimes
the Ships do not advance a Step for several Days
together, or move so slowly, that it is as good to
stand Rill.

About this Time there came-in a Junk,


bad.


In the Original, Sion.


In


from




of the English to the East Indies.


1604.


Voyages

from Sore a , aboard which were certain
Scots minds, who (tole away with their Goods ; because
\rf\JJ ore had been for a long Time very straitly besieged
by the Portuguese of Malakka , who (as
they said) offered the King Peace, on Condition
he would deliver-up or kill the Flemmings who
were in the City : To which he answered, that
he would sooner lose his Kingdom.

As soon as they came before him, he, with Sir Henry
a frowning (and not his usual dissembling) Coun-/«*/«■•
penance, asked Sir Henry , How he durst be so
bold as to come into this their Port of Mokha ,
so near their Holy City of Mekka c ?

Hereupon they bore up with the Island of Suk-
Jabal Sukkor c , which is big and high, having forts " Jarl »
another great Island to the Southwards of it, being
also high, called Jabal Ari.

pointed to keep Watch at an Island, called Cape d satan, Pettapoli, and Balligat. Mafulipatan lieth

Rochado which immediately came ; and the Cap in the Latitude of seventeen Degrees.

About six Days Journey by Land from Ho-den
, there is a Place called Teggazza, which, in Teggazza,
our Language, signifies a Chest of Gold b ; where
large Quantities of Rock-salt are dug every Year,
and carried on Karawans of Camels by the Arabs
and Azanaghi , in separate Companies, to Tombstone
from thence to the Empire of Mellii , belonging
to the Negros.

They said, they were glad
they had been of any Service to him ; and

thought


1J22.
} Roberts.


Shell Sin
[flic sty.




Save the

Wreck.


I


Voyages to the Cape de Verde Islands.



thought it their Duty to serve any Strangers a in a
Distress, notwithstanding they were of different
Colours; and by others, they believed, accounted
different Creatures : Yet, they thought, we
were all of one Species, and they were all Menas
we were; though, they allowed themselves to
be much inferior to Whites in every Thing.

Mr. Samuel Stanton. Dr. James Storehouse. Mr. Peter Thornton, of Hull. Mr. Bullock Toller, Attorney at Law, in Hertford. Mr. Abraham Disables. Mr. Samuel Watson, Bookseller, at Bury, 1i Sets. John Williams, Esq; Mr. Thomas Wood, of Addington. Mr. Robert Wright, of Boston. Mr. Peter Bandages, of Gingham, Essex, Dr. Thomas Yate, of Hertford.

CH AP. III. A voyage for tf .Discovery of the River Gambia, and, the Golden reade of, Toiboito',in the Tear 1620 and 621. By Captain Richard Hobson .

THE Sieur Salvert, on examining the Officers, nfrig'i, found that she was fitted-out to carry Supplies goethe Fort at Arguin; and had a new Governor on board, for that Place, called John Reers, with thirty-two Recruits for the Garison: That the Ship left at Arguin; which was bound for the Coast of Guinea, had only engaged to put the new Governor ashore, or on board the Galliot, in case they found the Fort taken, which he had done.

The Girls go shark-naked: Those of Qua city have their Bodies marked with Flowers and b Figures in an agreeable, regular Manner; so thatcher Skin appears like a Piece of wrought-Sattin.

This Work continues as many compass Days as the Farim thinks proper, after which non. every one returns home, and no Body is permit L -t ted to touch the Mine. Ille, Trade IT is owing to this Discontinuation in work r::;',truid. ing their Mines, that the Gold is not brought regularly at stated Seasons; for if the Negros wrought oftncr, much more Gold might be traded for, as their Want of both European Goods, and the Necessaries of Life, is continual.

About Mid night some of the Walls fell down, with a Noise like Thunder, but the Roof flood sat. The River, for ten Days past, was full of floating Isles, some twenty-five Yards long, with many Stumps of Trees; and sometimes small Trees growing, and Birds on them.

This Animal is found also in the Nile; and, in short, on all the Coasts from Cape Blanc to the Red-sea : But it is peculiar to Africa, for they are not to be met with in either Asia or America.

He left Portugal, ten Bends, or four thousand Livres in (old, crossed the River Minho at Villa Nova; three with which, and the Prisoners, he returned, f'a- Leagues beyond which he reached Thy, an Epif- nary the seventeenth, 1703.

Moreover, the inland Angle, the River Kongo being 'the farthest Place :' eo'pl are 'very jealous of'thofe Negros who are where the English 'carry-on .their.Trad'e; 'which underrate Protection of the Satories ' So thatil":nd has been so" improved 'thrice i'th las Fkenh'W ar, the Account, which the Author received from n"ot'r that though, in 7I2, there' went-only thirty,' both. when at Peace, (which brought the former three Ships to that: Coast, yet, in-r725,-it as e t6-the Sea-Side) 'seemed so fabulous and contra' resorted to by two;hundred Fail.

This Track of Land is full of Villages Drewin, Botrot, Cape la Hou, Cape Napoleonic, and Hamlets near the Shore a. allow.

a Of,'lg so Brafs-Bafon goes from House to House, ringing, t'- Do;,'i. and collecting something for the Funeral-Charges; towards which every Neighbour is obliged to contribute a Bit of Gold, not exceeding four Bakos.

The Excellency of Guinea-Honey, says Bowman, is well known: He adds, that there are .prodigious Quantities both of it 'and Wax, about Rio de Gabon, Cape Lopez, and farther in the Gulph of Guinea, but says, they are not in such Plenty on this Coast '.

C The same Author observes, that the great Captain, principal Officer to the King of Dahote, (who conquered A4rda and Whidah) had five hundred Wives. Sinelgra've's Voyage, t. 3, and 79.,I Toy AGE arn T Raves
19 to another, if a better Match offer in the mean a No rich Negro will sussex any Man to enter Wll .ih time a. his Wives Houses i What is' worse, these l tags J THEIR Marriages, says Phillips, are as in the Wives, on the least Suspicion of Falseness, areL- . primitive Times.

But some rascally Flatterers, by conti informs the King of it, and nothing is refused annually buzzing Lessons of good Husbandry in his him, let him alk what he will.

.called the Islands of Pongo. These lie beyond the Point, called by the Dutch, Sandhoek, or Sand Point; and by others, Quid Hook, or South Point, a Place where European Ships commonly take-in fresh Water, which is better here than at Cape Lope Gotifalvo. Barbot says, this Point is about five Leagues within the River's Mouth b, and extends from North. to South c.,THE Pongo Isles lie near the North Shore, and are distinguished from each other by different Names.

At his Return, he is obliged to treat f undertaking to juflifywhat he had done, MrLc/a thole who had accompanied him; and if the As font then both to Loanda ; where he alterwl.d.; sir be of Consequence, they commonly feast for heard, that the Bishop had discharged the Slave, three or four Nights together, to his no small but (hut-up his Master in Prison till he had sati Expence.

,THE same Author observes, that there isRotk another Sort of Shell-Fish found at the Foot of Trees when the Tide is out, on that Side of the Island which faces the Continent.

As soon as one of those Fellows from Author met with a great many who had fevcral,olben's Voyage, vol. 2. p. 9, &eJjq b The same, . 4 The same, p. 13, /eq.,''Thous.ad s
C H A P. II. Descry Option of the Dutch Possessions at the Cape. SECT. I. The Cape-colony. The first Settlement of the Dutch. Its Extent.,Table-Hill. Strange Phenomenon. The white Cloud. Lion-Hill: Signals from thence. Small Fort. Wind-Hill. Tyger-Hills. Cow-hill. 'Blue Mountains. Wood-Bay. Norwegians Hills.

They immediately rode to Hokfyew to crave Li hence of the Governor to depart, and obtained it, though he pressed them to slay till the Vice Roy returned.

They dined at Alinig-in-/.'ycn, a little City, whose Walls are but twelve see high and; i in bad Rcplir.,'I '-E twenty-filth, they \\wet about eight C.n-ly.,!i;i'Ul. ) ,,'*,. C'./P, p 39(, 71.f;/. " the nJournl suis, the 11 '/.':.:.: b. :.i'l'c're to the I il't, :; -1 I '" :(:cllcd , but the Mlpil, plalc it on the Left or \Vell'.,J I.'. :eut",
i 683. Lcagues, passing through one of the Suburbs of Le Comte.

As the Legate was leaving Nan-changfiu , a and three other Mandarins of the Court coming Pl Mezzabarbathe Capital of K)<jlg-Ji, where he arrived after a late at Night, brought him new Orders from the EÂ£1t, ' 'Journey of about twenty-five Days by Water Emperor.

Ofi xKr, THE second Book comprises the Description and History of Korea, Great Tartary, Tibet,,Karazm, and the two Bukharias; Countries but little known in Europe, till the Authors, whose voluminous Works we have reduced to moderate Bounds, lately appeared. With regard to Korea, the Public are obliged to the same Jesuits who surveyed China, for the curious Map and Relation of that Country; before which we had no tolerable Account of it, except ing those few and imperfect Remarks to be found in the Narrative of the Dutch Shipwreck on the Island of Quelpaert. (f Grt FROM this Country fa much resembling China, as well in its Improvements as the Man Trtl7r, news and Customs of the Natives, we pass into its Reverse in those Respect, Great Tartary;,proceeding gradually from the moi Eastern Shores of it, Westward to the Caspian Sea.

Tir mutual Situa Name for their Country; which changes withal'. tie'. every new Family that ascends the Throne.,Thus, under the preceding Race of Chinese T is doubtful whence the Name of China Emperors, it was called Tay-ming-que, or the came to Trans as not being used by the Kingdom of great Brightness : But the Tartars Natives. Ma3;idaers offences, that, in Bengal, now reigning term it, Tay-tjing-que, or the King ;r is called Coin; and Navarette thinks, that b dom of great Purity; which are the Names or Name obtained there on Account of the Silk Titles of their respective Families, or Races, as which is called Ibn.

Pa. ntIEN- YANG FU is the most Northern Y'venyanl City in the Province, near Shen-si, standing on the River Han, and in a pretty large Plain, in compassed with Mountains, which have a gentle Descent; and besides several Sorts of medicinal Herbs, produce abundance of very good Tin.

It is not known who the Pc.,T* - E T wh ole During of this Philosopher son was, concerning whom he spoke: But it -' ten t~ restore human Nature to its primi b certain, that sixty-five Years after the Birr d time Lustre and Beauty, received from Heaven; Christ, Making-ti, the fifteenth Emperor of dt v.hi;h had been obscured by the Darkness of Ig- Han Family, equally affected with the Work ra-ce, and Contagion of Vice.

This Plant grows in great Plenty rope . :i;'n S,'-h-iwcn, and the Mountains of Shen-si, THE Root of the Plant named Ten-se, is notTen-fcRt. r.l Sic-i,],, or al Mountains ofeSsw, which so commonly used, as the Fu-ling, but bears a : : Rut Lianzg-clhew, as far as Su-chew and greater Price.

From Ganhil's History of the.,L:;i who reigned in China, it appears, that the n:c rated at Kara-koran, from the Time of A':i till after their being expelled China; turin whr; c Space the Dominions of Tartary and C!'a wi united : So that De la Croix's Succefion from Bailly must be false, or his Authors hate i:.i Emperors of Governors i.,I i E uf;.al Dwellings of the Princes cf i-t',7s, called bv the Chinese, Kla-:.-ti. 4 AL;.:. r;-,:c': , are as follow.,Ai.ON; the Kalka-pisa, Latitude kli t forty-cig ht i)eercs;, Longitude one, two, ! four Degrees E,;l.

kfu, and may about two hundred and te Vigui. arccle to the Journal of Gois the Jesuit, who ten Miles long, and eighty broad: That of Hae i Way from Ka4lhgar to Akfu, passed the rit about one hundred and eighty in Length, ; Desart h, called Kara-cathay, or Black and of the same Breadth with-the other. These iileccaufe the People of Cathay dwelt there two Provinces seem to have been the Country ; hog Time.

likewise to sussex eighty-five Strokes, which the Tir Ir:. in wait also several Times for his Life, Agtns, or Great Priest, causes him to receive on r .ot without Success, and at length rent two the bare Back with a thick Leathern Strap, called c.r.ldernhle Persons to rid them of him at any Dura. Yet I have observed (says the Author Re: But God frustrated their Design in the that the common-People do not equally observe c:-v Infant they were going to execute it, by this Fast; and that Workmen, especially, are al tir.i /I;j, of a sudden, up to Heaven. He lowed to eat in the Day-time.

ZIPANGUd is a very large Island, fifteenZipang: , 'r: . ,i,' pays his Troops and Officers in the hundred Miles East of the Coast of Magi.

San-nefhan B'rok. Itt conceived tome Hr-cs, that their Religion might River.

53 C Blue Sea iv.

THIS Account was first brought to the De, T.-r attachment under the Command of Aha Lau-yi, gt P. (which was sent in Pursuit of the Enemy) by 3 of the principal Ministers and Officers of Kaldan, who had repaired thither to implore the Emperor Mercy.

SMOLLETT, COMPENDIUM OF VOYAGES

But he was no
sooner departed from St. Jago, than his enemies
renewed their batteries again!! him, and at length,
by the assistance of a pretended astrologer, found
means to arouse the jealousy of Velasquez, who
immediately dispatched couriers to La Trinidad,
with orders to his cousin Francisco Vertigo alcalde
of the place, to dispossess Cortes of his command
in a judicial way, his commission being revoked.

There being no convenient place for anchoring
on the east side of Dominica, they flood over
to another, which the admiral called Marigalante,
after his' own (hip; and there landing, he, with the
usual solemnity, confirmed the possession he had formerly
taken of all the islands and continent of the
Weft-Indies for the king and queen of Spain.

The general divided the spoil of both actions with his new Indian allies, who were charmed with his generosity; and he and the .Tlafcalans returned in triumph to Tepeaca, where by this time he had completed his fort and' settlement, to which he gave the name of Segura cela Frontera.,About this time a flip arrived at St. Juan de Ulna, with thirteen Spaniih soldiers, two horses, and rome provision and ammunition lent by Diego de Velasquez to Pamphilo de Narvaez, under the command of Pedro de Barba, who was governor of the Savannah when Cortes sailed on the expedition Pedro de Cavalier, who commanded on the coast, having discovered this vessel, went out in a boat to reconnoitre, and saluted the new-comers with great civility; but, suspecting the design of their coming, when Pedro de Barba inquired after Pamphilo de Narvaez, he answered without hesitation that he was in good health and great prosperity for all those countries had submitted to him; and Cortes, with a few followers, was fled to the mountains.

Here the two Spanish captains having: received intelligence, that the Mexicans had form ed a considerable body, within half a league of the city, to cover the aqueducts which came from the mountains of Chapultepeque, they marched thither, and, after a most obstinate action, drove the ene my from their post, and broke the pipes and aqueducts in two or three places; so that the water took its natural course into the lake this exploit being atchieved, Olid marched on with his division to Cuyocan, while Cortes took up on himself the command on the lake, arid embark ed with Don Fernando lord of Tezeuco, and his brother, who was afterwards baptized by the name of Carlos; but this shep the general did not take without having first left a sufficient number of troops to cover his place of arms, and secure the communication of his quarters. The brigantines being drawn up in a line, and adorned with flags and streamers, in order to captivate the admiration of the enemy, Cortes directed them to approach Mexico, that he might shew himself master of the lake; and in his return, perceiving a pretty firing case, situated in a small island, from whence the Mexicans provoked him with abusive language, he resolved to chastise their insolence in sight of the city, the terraces and balconies of which were fill ed with a prodigious concourse of people.

The nights were long and so extremely cold,
that it was almost impossible to handle the sails and
rigging without differing severely; the sudden
violent gusts of wind that now and then sprung
up, one of. which laced three days, threatened
unavoidable definition: winter was again coming
on fah, and the sea seemed so firmly covered with
ice, that no course appeared more unattainable,
than that of making Hudfon’s Straits; besides,
there was a necessity for better weather, even
to attempt it if the sea was clear, which was not
now to be hoped for.

It was the opinion of captain James when he returned
from this expedition, that there was no northwest
passage at all ; and his reasons for it are these :
there is a constant tide sets into Hudfon’s Straits,
the flood coming from the eastward; the sea produces
scarcely any fish, nor the smallest signs of
it;, it is covered over with ice, which, in his opinion,
is generated by shoals and bays; and this
ice would have certainly been broken and dis
if there was the free ocean beyond it, for
he found this the case in palling thro the Straits
into the sea to the eastward ; and lastly he had
observed, that the ice drives out always to the east

3 ward







THE VOYAGE, &c.

ward at Hudfon’s Bay : nor does he think that it
would answer any very profitable end, if such a
passage was really found out ; for the multiplicity
of dangerous ice and shoals in those latitudes,
make it unfit for a vessel to try them with any valuable
cargo* Bedded, he says, to the southward,
a thousand leagues may be sooner made, than
an hundred here, and with less hazard; and to
the south, and about the Cape of Good Hope,
there are fine opportunities of recruiting the lick ;
whereas here, there is not the slighted: refreshment
to be had, and scarcely any thing but pain and
disorder to be acquired.

-A V IN G made one voyage as a surgeon in,the East-India company's service, without - P any material accident, or singular turn of fortune; from after my return home, I was em played in my business by captain Buckingham out ward bound for the Wet-Indies; at Jamaica, the captain intended to have taken in a lading of f- ga; but the season being not yet come, when he arrived there, rather-than be idle he chore to try his fortune in cutting logwood in the bay of Cam peachy. As I had a brother fettled in the service of Sir Thomas Multiform, on the island, I chore to remain and follow my own employment at Port Rival.

C H A P. .V. X treatise on the virtues and value of the diamonds rubies, emeralds, fathers, amethysts, and various other commodities the produce of the East-Indies.

,In about three hours we came to five or six huts, inhabited by about a dozen people, from whom we bought all their sins ; and afterwards, keeping the banks of the river Pezora, villages began to multi. ply ; some of them were abandoned, and some not; wherever we found inhabitants we were sure of having some skins either for brandy or money, but none would venture to sell us fables. We now reached a large ridge of high craggy' mountains, always covered with snow, that divide the last men. toned country from Borandia.

Cape of Good Hope described: a account V'it,wld ass of the Cape: why the inhabitants of ti Cape are called'Hottentcts: their nqilinejs: Jlme account of the situation, i;r, commodities, tuJiols, and woznen of the iJfrlar of St. Helena; our author arrives in England: .Is voyage concluded.

,;Next day, our author joined a company of Frenchmen who had made a party to go and see the Pyramids, and they set out for Bulac on twelve good ails: there they took boar, as the land was all o0erl.cwed by the Nile, and before non, ar rived at those vast piles of stone which stand about twelve miles from Cairo.

,HE river Plata, otherwise Rio de la Plata, begins near a town of the same name, which is a sort of metropolis, confiding of several hand. some buildings, besides fifteen churches and four nunneries. It lies in nineteen degrees south latitude From hence to Buenos Ayres, the distance is five hundred leagues, and the times necessary to paTs from one to the other, is about ten weeks.

The gold mines are most of them in the north parts betwixt Panama and the equinoctial line before the French traded to Peru round Cape Horne, there was a considerable commerce from Panama to all the ports of the South-sea; but since that time, they have had such a glut of European goods, that the trade is scarce worth following.

HAWKESWORTH, COOK FIRST

INTRO AND BYRON

CHAP. XII. The Run from Tinian to Pulo Timoan, 
            with some Account of the Inhabitants and Productions, and thence to 
            Batavia.

The Tamar split her main sail, but as she was to leeward of us, she had more time to prepare. In a short time it began to blow very hard
        
        
        
        
           
            
          
       

        
      

        
        was now almost midsummer in these parts, the weather was, in every respect much worse than it is in the Bay of Biscay at the depth of Winter.

At night, there being little wind, we anchored at the distance of four or five miles from the shore; and in the morning, with a breeze from the land, we turned up the harbour’s mouth; we found it very narrow, with many rocks and shoals about it, and the most rapid tide I had ever known. I came to an anchor off the harbour in nine fathom, the entrance of the river being open, and bearing W.S.W.; Penguin Island S.E. ½ E. distant about three leagues; the Steeple rock S.W. by W.; the northermost land N.N.W.; and two rocks, which are covered at half tide, and lie at the southermost extremity of a reef which runs from the same land, N.E. by N.

WALLIS

About three o’clock Cape Blanco bore W.N. W. distant six leagues, and a remarkable double saddle W.S.W. distant about three leagues.

To this place, which is nearly circular, and  about two miles over, I gave the name of OSNABURGH ISLAND, in honour of Prince Frederick, who is bishop of that see.

From this time, to the 3d of November, we found the ship every day from ten to fifteen miles North of her reckoning.

CARTERET

Between five and fix o'clock, just as we opened Cape Deseada, the wind suddenly shifted to S. and S. by W. and blew so hard that it was with great difficulty we could carry the reefed top-sails: the sudden changing of the wind, and its excessive violence, produced a sea so dreadfully hollow, that great quantities of water were thrown in upon our deck, so that we were in the utmost danger of foundering; yet we did not dare to shorten sail, it being necessary to carry all we could spread, in order to weather the rocky islands, which Sir John Narborough has called the Islands of Direction, for we could not now run back again into the Streight, without falling down among the broken land, and incurring the dangers of the northern shore, which was to leeward; towards this broken land, however, and lee shore, the ship settled very fast, notwithstanding our utmost efforts: in this pressing emergency we were obliged to stave all the water-casks upon the deck, and between decks, to clear the vessel, and to make her carry better sail, and at length happily escaped the danger which threatened us.

I replied, that I was not conscious of having in any instance acted contrary to the treaties subsisting between the two kingdoms, unworthy of my character as an officer, honoured with a commission of his Britannic Majesty, or unsuitable to the trust reposed in me, though I did not think I had been used by the Governor of Macassar as the subject of a friend and ally; desiring that if they had any thing to allege against me, it might be reduced to writing, and laid before the King my Master, to whom alone I thought myself amenable.

COOK

CHAP. X. An Excursion to the Eastward, an Account of several Incidents that happened both on Board and on Shore, and of the first Interview with Oberea, the Person who, when the Dolphin was here, was supposed to be Queen of the Island, with a Description of the Fort. 99

Besides their daughter Tettowmatatayo, the first progenitors of nature had a son whom they called TANE. Taroataihetoomoo, the Supreme Deity, they emphatically stile the causer of earthquakes; but their prayers are more generally addressed to Tane, whom they suppose to take a greater part in the affairs of mankind.

To this they readily consented, and promised that they never would pull it down: I then gave something to every one present; and to the old man I gave a silver threepence, dated 1736, and some spike nails, with the king's broad arrow cut deep upon them; things which I thought most likely to remain long among them: I then took the post to the highest part of the island, and after fixing it firmly in the ground, I hoisted upon it the Union-flag, and honoured this inlet with the name of QUEEN CHARLOTTE's SOUND, at the same time taking formal possession of this and the adjacent country, in the name and for the use of his Majesty King George the Third.

The land forming the harbour or cove in which we lay, is called by the natives TOTARRANUE: the harbour itself, which I called SHIP COVE, is not inferior to any in the Sound, either for convenience or safety: it lies on the west side of the Sound, and is the southermost of three coves, that are situated within the island of Motuara, which bears east of it.

A high point of land, which I named CAPE BYRON, bore N. W. by W. at the distance of three miles. It lies in latitude 28° 37′ 30″ S., longitude 206° 30′ W. and may be known by a remarkable sharp peaked mountain, which lies inland, and bears from it N. W. by W.

At this time we were in latitude 24° 22′, and Sandy Cape bore S. ½ E. distant eight leagues; but the direction of the shoal is nearest N. N. W. and S. S. E.*

This place is very convenient both for wooding and watering, and in the river there is an immense quantity of oysters and other shell-fish: I have for this reason given it the name of OYSTER RIVER.

On the west side of it is a large and pretty deep bay, lying in S. W. by W. in which there appeared to be several small islands: the point that forms the N. W. entrance, lies W. ¼ N. at the distance of three or four leagues from Cape Bret, and I distinguished it by the name of POINT POCOCKE.

AFTER parting with our friends, we made an easy sail,* with gentle breezes and clear weather, and were informed by Tupia, that four of the neighbouring islands, which he distinguished by the names of HUAHEINE, ULIETEA, OTAHA, and BOLABOLA, lay at the distance of between one and two days sail from Otaheite; and that hogs, fowls, and other refreshments, with which we had of late been but sparingly supplied, were there to be procured in great plenty; but having discovered from the hills of Otaheite, an island lying to the northward, which he called TETHUROA, I determined first to stand that way, to take a nearer view of it.

Our Arrival at the Cape of Good Hope; some Remarks on the Run from Java Head to that Place; a Description of the Cape, and of Saint Helena: With some Account of the Hottentots, and the Return of the Ship to England.

Aetna and Vesuvius have no land higher than themselves, in their neighbourhood; Hecla is the highest hill in Iceland; volcanoes are frequent in the highest part of the Andes in South America; and the pike of Teneriffe is known to be the covering of subterraneous fire: these are still burning, but there are innumerable other mountains which bear evident marks of fire that is now extinct, and has been so from the time of our earliest traditions: among these is Saint Helena, where the inequalities of the ground, in its external surface, are manifestly the effect of the sinking of the earth, for the opposite ridges, though separated always by deep, and sometimes by broad vallies, are exactly similar both in appearance and direction; and that the sinking of the earth in these parts, was caused by subterraneous fire, is equally manifest from the stones, for some of them, especially those in the bottom of the vallies, are burnt almost to a cinder: in some there are small bubbles, like those that are seen in glass which has been urged almost to fusion, and some, though at first sight they do not appear to have been exposed to the action of great heat, will be found, upon a closer inspection, to contain small pieces of extraneous bodies, particularly mundick, which have yielded to the power of fire, though it was not sufficient to alter the appearance of the stone which contained them.

FORSTER, COOK SECOND

Anchorage in O-Aitepeha harbour, on the lesser peninsula of O-Taheitee - Account of our stay there. - Removal to Matavai Bay.

The country hereabouts afforded a prospect much resembling Taheitee; for the island being about three times the size of Huahine, had much broader plains, anad loftier hills. The natives surrounded us in a number of canoes, and brought a few hogs; but our people looked at them with a careless indifference, and offered very low prices, being difficult to please, since their success at Huahine. In one of the canoes a chief came on board, named Oruwherra, a native of the adjacent isle of Borabora ( Bolabola).

We got under sail in the evening and steered to the southward, having mild weather with frequent showers of rain on the following days, and the wind blowing from N.E. by N. to N.N.E. [Sunday 16.]

Piscium, appendix pag. 5. tab. 9. f. 3. which is taken from John Nieuhoff's account, and which the Dutch call zee-duyvel, or sea-devil.

In the mean time they advanced towards O Herurua Bay on the S. W. part of the island, and, on their way, the chief, O-Tàhupon which our people gave up the cloth, hogs, targets, &c. which had hitherto remained in their hands, and rewarded the owner of the hut, where they had passed the night, as well as the old chief, for their fidelity and kindness.

[Friday 22.]In the morning we were to the south of Cape Kidnappers, and advanced to the Black Cape.

No plant promises to become so useful to Europe by transplantation as this flag. The hemp of flax which the New Zeelanders make of it, with their coarse materials, is excessively strong, soft, glossy, and white; and that which has been prepared again in England, has almost equalled silk in lustre.

As far as we had hitherto advanced, we had found no land, not even indications of land; our first track had crossed the South Sea in the middle latitudes, or between 40 and 50 degrees.

Already, during night, we had some smart showers, and at eight o'clock the next morning we saw the surface of the sea curled to the south-eastward, upon which we trimmed our sails, and advanced again with a fair wind.

As there are instances in the Açores, and in the Archipelago, that volcanic eruptions have forced their way through the sea from the unfathomable bottom, this circumstance would be of less consequence, if it had not disagreed with the opinion of the great naturalist, M. de Buffon.

COOK, COOK THIRD

,For forne time before we arrived at New Zealand, Omai had cxprrfed a dcfire to take one of the natives with him to,9 his,I35
1777- his own country. We had not been there many days, be- Fcbrual-y.,r.----- fore he had an opportunity of being gratified in this; for a,youth about fevcntcen or eighteen years of age, named Tawciharooa, oficred to accompany him; and took up his rcfidence oa board.

This, he - said, had put into a port on the North Weft coast of Teerawitte, but a very few years before I arrived in the Sound in the En- deavour, which the New Zealanders dillinguifh, by calling Tupia's ship.

The ship, so pointedly referred to, in this conversation, could be no other than the Dolphin; the only single ship from Europe, as far as we have ever learned, that had touched, of late years, at any island in this part of the Pacific Ocean, prior to my former visit of the Friendly Islands *.

C II A P. IV. a Storm, after failing, fom Nootka Solnd.-Refo/litionfprings a Leak.,--Prtcnmh'd Srait of Admiradl de 1Fonte paffdcl uncxamined,-Pro-,1'F^
grcfs along the Coajf of America.-Beering's Bay.-Kaye's Island.- Account of it.-The Ships come to an Ancbor.-Vifited by the Na- tives.-Their Behaviour.-Fondnefs for Beads and Iron.-Atteznpt to plunder the Difcovery.-Refolution's Leak flopped.-Progrefs up the Sound.-MeJfrs. Gore and Robertsfent to examine its Extent.- Reasons againJt a PaJfage to the North through it.-The Ships pro- ceed down it, to the open Sea. 341,

,Before I failed from the Society Islands, I loft no opportu- nity of inquiring of the inhabitants, if there were any islands in a North or a North Weft direction from them; but I did not find that they knew of any.

It was lound, that they burnt here the oily nuts of the e doo oo for lights in the night, as at Otalicite; and that they baked tipcir hogs in ovens; but, contrary to the pradtice of the So- cicty and Friendly Islands, split the carcases through their,whole
whole length.

He told us, that in the year 1773, an expedition had been made into the Frozen Sea in fledges, over the ice, to three large islands that lie opposite the mouth of the river Kovyma.

I have before mentioned, that the two mod powerful Chiefs
these islands are Terreeoboo of Owhyhee, and Perreeoran-
nee of Woahoo ; the rest of the smaller isles being subject to
one or other of these ; Mowee, and its dependencies, being,
at this time, claimed, as we have just observed, by Terreeo-
boo for Teewarro his son and intended successor ; Atooi and
Onccheow being governed by the grandsons of Perreeorannce.

It was evident, that the iron we found in possession of the natives at Nootka
Sound, and which was mostly made into knives, was of a much paler sort than ours.

Having



THE PACIFIC OCEAN. 4*7

Having completed our victualling, and furnished our '783.

selves with the necessary supply of naval stores, we sailed ^— ^~~>

out of the Bay on the 9th of May, and on the 14th, we got Tuesday 9 .
into the South East trade wind, and steered to the West ward of

the islands of St. Helena and Ascension.

DEFOE, CRUSOE

Two more ships, being driven from their anchors, were
run out of the Roads to sea, at all adventures, and that with not a mast
standing.  The light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in
the sea; but two or three of them drove, and came close by us, running
away with only their spritsail out before the wind.

By-and-by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting
upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what I
would do, I called him to me again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed
a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the
parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him see
I would make it fall, I made him understand that I would shoot and kill
that bird; accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he
saw the parrot fall.

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very rich in subjects;
and it was a merry reflection, which I frequently made, how like a king I
looked.

I knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed either
to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this
cape, or those islands; and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune
upon this single point, either that I must meet with some ship or must
perish.

DEFOE, FURTHER ADVENTURES

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, whom, as I
have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and had made him
commander of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to Bilbao, being
the first he had made.

We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands
in the mouth of the great river Orinoco, but none for my purpose; only
this I learned by my coasting the shore, that I was under one great
mistake before, viz. that the continent which I thought I saw from the
island I lived in was really no continent, but a long island, or rather a
ridge of islands, reaching from one to the other side of the extended
mouth of that great river; and that the savages who came to my island
were not properly those which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and other
barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited nearer to our side than the
rest.

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possible to meet
with good company here, in a country so barbarous as this--one of the
most northerly parts of Europe.  But this being the country where the
state criminals of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished, the
city was full of Russian noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers, and courtiers.

DEFOE, CAPTAIN SINGLETON

I went three or four voyages with him,
and grew a great sturdy boy, when, coming home again from the banks of
Newfoundland, we were taken by an Algerine rover, or man-of-war; which,
if my account stands right, was about the year 1695, for you may be sure
I kept no journal.

They travelled up to the top of the mountains I mentioned just now,
where they saw (as our men afterwards vouched it to be) the same desert
which we were so justly terrified at when we were on the farther side,
and which, by our calculation, could not be less than 300 miles broad
and above 600 miles in length, without knowing where it ended.

I told them that the trade here was great, the ships rich, and the
Strait of Babelmandel narrow; so that there was no doubt but we might
cruise so as to let nothing slip our hands, having the seas open from
the Red Sea, along the coast of Arabia, to the Persian Gulf, and the
Malabar side of the Indies.

We took in fresh water here, and some provisions, but did not much
trouble ourselves about laying in any stores, our beef and hogs, which
we got at Java, being not yet all gone by a good deal.

DEFOE, NEW VOYAGE

Being thus, I say, resolved to have no more to do with the coast of
Peru, we stood off to sea, and the first land we made was a little
unfrequented island in the latitude of 17° 13', where our men went on
shore in the boats three or four times, to catch tortoises or turtles,
being the first we had met with since we came from the East Indies.

But here, by the way, it ought to be understood, that all this was
carried on with a supposition that we acted under a commission from the
King of France; and though he knew many of us were English, and that I
was an Englishman in particular, yet as we had such a commission, and
produced it, we were Frenchmen in that sense to him, nor did he
entertain us under any other idea.

I asked him if these notions of his were common among those of his
country who were settled in Chili and Peru? or whether they were his own
private opinions only?

The ship sailed from the river the 20th of December, 1713, and went
directly over to the coast of Flanders, lying at an anchor in Newport
Pitts, as they are called, where we took in our French Captain Jean
Michael Merlotte, who, with thirty-two French seamen, came on board us
in a large snow from Dunkirk, bringing with them one hundred and
twenty-two small ankers or rundlets of brandy, and some hampers and
casks of French wine in wickered bottles.

They sailed the height of Cape Blanco, where the land falling back,
makes a deep bay, and the sea receives into it a great river at several
mouths, some of them twenty leagues from the other, all farther north.

CHETWOOD, RICHARD FALCONER

Let me
ti conjure you by our old Friendship to take all
•< the Care you can df him ; and whenever he
comes to England, let him come to you, for as'
yes I know not where to* lead my wretched Life;

« so



Capt. Richard Falconer. S
« so that 1 shall confide in you, and let you know
by a Letter, or Messenger, *s soon as possible,
•* where I (hall settle.

By this Time we got within twenty
Yards of the End of the Hedge, where we seven
fired our Mufquets, and left them to Plymouth to
charge ; then we ran in upon them with our Pistols,
and discharged them close upon them.

So I laid hold
of one of the Pistols unperceived, (they having prepared
their Arms for the Engagement) went up to
Velasquez, and took him by the Throat with my
left Hand, and holding the Pistol to his Bread with
my Right, I threatened to moot him dead if he or
his Men offered to dir.

On June the twenty-third we set sail for Domini
co f where we arrived without any Accident.

SWIFT, GULLIVER

“6th, He shall be our ally against our enemies in the island of Blefuscu,
and do his utmost to destroy their fleet, which is now preparing to
invade us.

It would not be proper, for some reasons, to trouble the reader with the
particulars of our adventures in those seas; let it suffice to inform
him, that in our passage from thence to the East Indies, we were driven
by a violent storm to the north-west of Van Diemen’s Land.

The sum of his discourse was to this effect: “That about forty years ago,
certain persons went up to Laputa, either upon business or diversion,
and, after five months continuance, came back with a very little
smattering in mathematics, but full of volatile spirits acquired in that
airy region: that these persons, upon their return, began to dislike the
management of every thing below, and fell into schemes of putting all
arts, sciences, languages, and mechanics, upon a new foot.

I therefore told the officer, “that having been
shipwrecked on the coast of Balnibarbi, and cast on a rock, I was
received up into Laputa, or the flying island (of which he had often
heard), and was now endeavouring to get to Japan, whence I might find a
convenience of returning to my own country.”

PART II.  A VOYAGE TO BROBDINGNAG.

SMOLLETT, RODERICK RANDOM

This letter (which, with the other, was dated from Port Lonis, in
Hispaniola) I had no sooner read than the apothecary, shaking his head,
began: “I have a very great regard for Mr. Bowling that's certain; and
could be well content--but times are very hard. There's no such thing as
money to be got; I believe 'tis all vanished under ground, for my part.

I was almost
persuaded to take his advice, when one day, stepping into a barber's
shop to be shaved, the young man, while he lathered my face, accosted
me thus: “Sir, I presume you are a Scotchman.” I answered in the
affirmative. “Pray,” continued he, “from what part of Scotland?” I no
sooner told him, than he discovered great emotion, and not confining his
operation to my chin and upper lip, besmeared my whole face with great
agitation.

CHAPTER XIII

Strap and I are terrified by an Apparition--Strap's Conjecture--the
Mystery explained by Joey--we arrive in London--our Dress and
Appearance described--we are insulted in the Street--an Adventure in an
Alehouse--we are imposed upon by a waggish Footman--set to rights by
a Tobacconist--take Lodgings--dive for a Dinner--an Accident at our
Ordinary

Be this
as it will, we sailed from Jamaica, and, in ten days or a fortnight,
beat up against the wind as far as the Isle of Vache, with an intention,
as was said, to attack the French fleet, then supposed to be lying near
that place; but before we arrived, they had sailed for Europe, having
first dispatched an advice-boat to Carthagena, with an account of
our being in those seas, as also of our strength and destination.

When
we came to Mr. Cringer's door, Strap, to give me all instance of his
politeness, ran to the knocker, which he employed so loud and so long,
that he alarmed the whole street; and a window opening in the
second story of the next house, a vessel was discharged upon him so
successfully, that the poor barber was wet to the skin, while I, being
luckily at some distance, escaped the unsavoury deluge.

COOK, FIRST VOYAGE JOURNAL

16 June 1771
        Week Days   Month Days       Winds   Courses    Distce. Saild       Lat. in North   Longde in West from    Greenwich      June 1771               Miles   °   ..    '   °   ..     '      Sunday   16   Do   NE1/2E   119   38..18    40..38      
        A Stead breeze & pleasent weather with some Rain in  the night. At Day light in the Morning saw a Sail ahead which we came up and  spoke with a little after 10 o Clock    She proved a Portuguese  Ship from Rio de Janeiro bound to Lisbon

27 November 1769
        Monday 27thPM Gentle breezes Easterly and clear weather. At 3 pass'd the point of land before Mentioned, which I have named Cape Brett in honour of Sr Percy. The land of this Cape is considerable higher than any part of the adjacent Coast: at the very point of the Cape is a high round hillock and NEBN near one Mile from this is a small high Island or Rock with a hole perced quite thro' it like the Arch of a Bridge and this was one reason why I gave the Cape the above name because Piercy seem'd very proper for that of the Island. This Cape or at least some part of it, is call'd by the Natives Motugogogo

At this time we discover'd an Island which bore from us N. 63° West distant about 8 Leagues at the same time the Peek of Bola bola bore N1/2E distant 3 or 4 leagues: this Island Tobiaupia calls Maurua and according to his account it is but small and surrounded by a reef of rocks and bath no harbour fit for shipping, it is inhabited and its produce is the same as the other Island we have touched at: it riseth pretty in a high round hill in the middle of the Islands which may be seen 10 Leagues  At Noon the Soend end of Otaha bore N 80° E distt 4 Leagues.

Some days after our arrival at the Cape of Good Hope, I was told by some French officers lately come from the Island Maritius that Oretti the Native of Georges Island which Bougainville brought away with him was now at the Maritius and that they were going to fit out a Ship to carry him to his Native Country where they intend to make a Settlement, a Hundred Troops for that purpose were to go out in the same Ship: this account is confirmed by a French Gentlemen we have on board who has very lately been at the Maritius.

the bark at first sight looks like birch bark but upon examination I found it to be of a very different and so I believe is the wood but this I could not examine as having no ax or any thing with me to cut down a tree - about the skirts of the Lagoon grows the true Mangrove such as are found in the West Indias and which we have not seen during the Voyage before - here is likewise a sort of a Palm tree which grows on low barren and sandy places in the South Sea Islands and calld by the natives of these Islands

COOK, FIRST VOYAGE REMARKS

You may sail into this Cove either between this last mentioned Island and the Isle Hamote or between Motu-oura and the West shore    in this ^last channell are two ledges of rocks 3 fathom under water but they may be known by the Sea weed which grows upon them. In sailing in or out of this Sound with little wind attention must be had to the Tides which flows 9 or 10 oClock at the full and change of the Moon and rises and falls upon a perpendicular 7 or 8 feet.

From the West   Cape down to Cape Fare-well and even to Queen Charlottes Sound will
            
      

        
        in most places to differ not much from the truth.
        Mention is likewise made in the Chart of the appearence   or Aspect of the face of the Country. With respect to Aehei   no mouweTovy poenammu   it is for the most part of avery Mountainous and to all appearence a barren   Country,  the people in Queen Charlottes Sound, those that came off to   us from under the Snowey Mountain and the fire we saw to the SW   of Cape Saunders were all the inhabitants or   signs of inhabitants we saw upon the whole Island.


        Whennuaouda         |  Motehea         |  Oourio         |  Orurutu         |  Oatuu         |  Oahooahoo         |  Oweha         |  Orotuma         |  Tenuna         |  Orevavie         | Between the NBW and West       Toutepa         |      Orarathoa             |  Oryvavai         |  Oahourou         |  

BANKS, FIRST VOYAGE JOURNAL

 13 November 1768
        13.  This Morn the Harbour of Rio Janeiro was right ahead about 2 leagues off but it being quite Calm we made our aproaches very slowly.  The sea was inconceveably full of small vermes which we took without the least dificulty; they were almost all new except Beroe labiata, Medusa radiata, fimbriata and Chrystallina, Dagysa               .  Soon after that a fishing boat Came a board and sold us three Scombers which proved to be new and were calld Salmoneus; his baites were Clupea Chinensis of which we also procurd specimens.

- Since we have been on the coast we have not observd those large fires which we so frequently saw in the Islands and New Zealand made by the Natives in order to clear the ground for cultivation; we thence concluded not much in favour of our future freinds.

Foul wind continued but we contrivd to turn out and get into the streights, which are to be calld Cooks streights.

BANKS, FIRST VOYAGE REMARKS

Plants collected at Terra del FuegoDiandria
        A. Lasiocarpus humilis Mscr. fig. pict.
        A. Pinguicula alpina Linn. fig. pict.
        Triandria
        A. Carpha schoenoides Mscr. fig. pict.
        Scirpus setaceus Linn.
        A. Phleum alpinum Linn.
        Alopecurus pratensis Linn.
        A. Agrostis densa Mscr.


Princes Island as it is calld by the English, in Malay Pulo Selan, and in the language of its inhabitants Pulo paneitan, is a small Island situated in the Western mouth of the streights of Sunday; it is woody, and has no remarkable hill upon it, tho the English call the small one which is just over the anchoring place the Pike.

This tract of Land, vast as it is, is settled by the Dutch who have also people much farther in land if their accounts can be credited; they have upon the whole of it however only one town which is generaly known by the Name of the Cape Town.  It is situated on the Atlantick side, about 20 miles to the Northward of the Real Cape, on the Banks of a bay shelterd from the SE wind by
            
      

        
        a large mountain level at the top, from whence both itself and the bay have got the name of Tafel or Table.

PARKINSON, FIRST VOYAGE JOURNAL

From several circumstances which occurred on the 8th, it was concluded that we had sailed between Falkland’s Islands and the main land; and were in hopes of touching at the former place, from which we designed to have forwarded some letters to Europe.

PART II. Comprehending the occurences met with from leaving Yoolee-Etea to the time of the ship's departure from the coast of New Zealand.

We were at this time off a cape, which we named Table Cape: we made but little way that night.

A few leagues farther from this point, which we called Woody Point, we saw a small flat island, or rock, which was almost covered with gannets, or soland geese; and therefore called it Gannet Island.

The north coast tended away eastward; and the south to the S. S. W, which we followed till the night closed in upon us; then the wind chopped about; and, being willing to satisfy ourselves whether the north part of this land was an island, we resolved to sail as far north as Cape Turnagain.

RAYNAL 

FRANCE may draw annually from this settlement, twq hundred bales of cottons or handkerchiefs fit for Europe, and a large quantity of rice for the subsistence of her other colonies. ALL goods bought at K arica, Yanam and Mafulipatam; are carried to Pondicherry, our chief settlement in India. 

AN advantage more certain, and lets remote, is the facility which California gives of reducing the provinces .which extend from the other side of the gulf to th river Colorado. These rich countries arc at such a distance from Mexico, and so difficult of access, that it appeared as dangerous to attempt the conquest of them, astufelefs to execute it. The liberty, the safety of the .self California, ought to encourage the undertaking, finis the means of succeeding in it, and insure the advantages accruing from it. Philosophers themselves .ill invite the court of Madrid to these expeditions, as soon as they shall have seen them solemnly abjure those fanatical and dcftruAive principles which have hitherto constituted the bails of their policy. IN the mean time, till Spain shall adopt there great speculations, California serves for a place for ships that fail from the Philippines to Mexico to put in at. Cape St. Lucar, situated at the southern extremity of the peninsula is the place where they touch. 

At that memorable a:'d unfortunate period for St. Domingo, a permission was extorted from the government to seize the negroes for the planter's debts. The first executions of this kind, though unlucccfbfui, fprecJ terror and consternation throughout the colony. 

The truth is, that we should run the rifqtic cf losing them, if foreign ships were admitted into their harbours.,AzorE a century ago, England laid the foundations cf an irmm-ene empire in the val v.iids of North America which went on but flosyIv at first, but row makes z div rapid promises.

,TlHOUGLC
B O O K THOUGH some fishermen had long since resorted to', Cape Breton every summer, yet not above twenty or thir-sty had ever fixed there. The French who took possession of it in August 1713, were properly the first inhabitants. They changed its name into that of Isle Royale, and pitched upon Fort Dauphin for their principal settlement.



























